CITY OF PAINTSVILLE, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2017 S-12 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2017-009, passed 7-24-17; and
State legislation current through 2016
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE 95-009
AMENDED ORDINANCE TO ADOPT THE PAINTSVILLE CODE OF ORDINANCES
   BE IT ORDAINED AND ENACTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF PAINTSVILLE, KENTUCKY, in
regular session assembled, that the Code of Ordinance prepared by American
Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, as amended and updated as of
August 17, 1995, and it is hereby adopted as the official Code of Ordinances of
the City of Paintsville.
   ADOPTED THIS 10 DAY OF OCTOBER, 1995.
                                       Robin Cooper  /s/           
                                       ROBIN COOPER, MAYOR
ATTEST:
Virgie Castle  /s/ 
VIRGIE CASTLE,
City Clerk
FIRST READING:      09-12-95
SECOND READING:   10-10-95
PUBLICATION DATE:   10-18-95
ORDINANCE NO. 96-007
   ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
PAINTSVILLE
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A
   SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES,
   THE CITY OF PAINTSVILLE
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation, Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the first supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Paintsville, Kentucky, which Supplement contains all Ordinances of a general
nature enacted since the prior adoption of the Code of Ordinances by the City
of Paintsville; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of City Council to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the Ordinances which have been passed since the adoption of
the Code of Ordinances;
   NOW, THEREFORE, be it Ordained, by the City Council of the City of
Paintsville, Kentucky:
      (1)   This Ordinance shall be known as an Ordinance Enacting and Adopting
a Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Paintsville, Kentucky.
      (2)   That the first Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Paintsville, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set forth in
its entirety.
      (3)   That this Ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
      ADOPTED this 17  day of September, 1996.
                                       Robin Cooper  /s/           
                                       ROBIN COOPER, MAYOR
ATTEST:
Virgie Castle  /s/ 
VIRGIE CASTLE, Clerk
FIRST READING:      08-13-96
SECOND READING:   09-17-96
PUBLICATION DATE:   09-25-96
ORDINANCE NO. 97-004
   ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SECOND SUPPLEMENT
   TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
   PAINTSVILLE ORDINANCE NO. 97-004
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A
   SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES,
   THE CITY OF PAINTSVILLE
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation, Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the second supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Paintsville, Kentucky, which Supplement contains all Ordinances of a general
nature enacted since the Ordinance Enacting and Adopting a Supplement to the
Code of Ordinances, Ordinance No. 96-007; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of City Council to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the Ordinances which have been passed since the adoption of
the Code of Ordinances;
   NOW, THEREFORE, be it Ordained, by the City Council of the City of
Paintsville, Kentucky:
      (1)   This Ordinance shall be known as an Ordinance Enacting and Adopting
a Second Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Paintsville,
Kentucky.
      (2)   That the Second Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Paintsville, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set forth in
its entirety.
      (3)   That this Ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
      ADOPTED this 12  day of August, 1997.
                                       Robin Cooper  /s/           
                                       ROBIN COOPER, MAYOR
ATTEST:
Virgie Castle  /s/ 
VIRGIE CASTLE, Clerk
First Reading:      07-08-97
Second Reading:   08-12-97
Publication Date:   08-20-97
ORDINANCE NO. 98-005
   ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A THIRD SUPPLEMENT
   TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
   PAINTSVILLE ORDINANCE NO. 98-005
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A
   SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES,
   THE CITY OF PAINTSVILLE
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation, Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the third supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Paintsville, Kentucky, which Supplement contains all Ordinances of a general
nature enacted since the prior adoption of the second supplement to the Code of
Ordinances by the City of Paintsville; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of City Council to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the Ordinances which have been passed since the adoption of
the Code of Ordinances;
   NOW, THEREFORE, be it Ordained, by the City Council of the City of
Paintsville, Kentucky:
      (1)   This Ordinance shall be known as an Ordinance Enacting and Adopting
a Third Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Paintsville,
Kentucky.
      (2)   That the Third Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Paintsville, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set forth in
its entirety.
      (3)   That this Ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
      ADOPTED this 9th  day of June, 1998.
                                       Robin Cooper  /s/           
                                       ROBIN COOPER, MAYOR
ATTEST:
Virgie Castle  /s/ 
VIRGIE CASTLE, Clerk
First Reading:      05-12-98
Second Reading:   06-09-98
Publication Date:   06-17-98
ORDINANCE NO. 99-012
   ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A FOURTH SUPPLEMENT
   TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
   PAINTSVILLE ORDINANCE NO. 99-012
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A
   SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES,
   THE CITY OF PAINTSVILLE
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation, Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the fourth supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Paintsville, Kentucky, which Supplement contains all Ordinances of a general
nature enacted since the prior adoption of the third supplement to the Code of
Ordinances by the City of Paintsville; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of City Council to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the Ordinances which have been passed since the adoption of
the Code of Ordinances;
   NOW, THEREFORE, be it Ordained, by the City Council of the City of
Paintsville, Kentucky:
      (1)   This Ordinance shall be known as an Ordinance Enacting and Adopting
a Fourth Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Paintsville,
Kentucky.
      (2)   That the Fourth Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Paintsville, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set forth in
its entirety.
      (3)   That this Ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
      ADOPTED this 12th  day of August, 1999.
                                       Robin Cooper  /s/           
                                       ROBIN COOPER, MAYOR
ATTEST:
Virgie Castle  /s/ 
VIRGIE CASTLE, Clerk
First Reading:      07-13-99
Second Reading:   08-12-99
Publication Date:   08-25-99
ORDINANCE NO. 2008-004
   ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A FIFTH SUPPLEMENT
   TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
   PAINTSVILLE ORDINANCE NO. 2008-004
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A
   SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES,
   THE CITY OF PAINTSVILLE
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation, Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the fifth supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Paintsville, Kentucky, which Supplement contains all Ordinances of a general
nature enacted since the prior adoption of the fourth supplement to the Code of
Ordinances by the City of Paintsville; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of City Council to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the Ordinances which have been passed since the adoption of
the Code of Ordinances;
   NOW, THEREFORE, be it Ordained, by the City Council of the City of
Paintsville, Kentucky:
      (1)   This Ordinance shall be known as an Ordinance Enacting and Adopting
a Fifth Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Paintsville,
Kentucky.
      (2)   That the Fifth Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Paintsville, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set forth in
its entirety.
      (3)   That this Ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
                                       Bob Porter /s/           
                                       BOB PORTER, MAYOR
ATTEST:
Virgie Castle  /s/ 
VIRGIE CASTLE, Clerk
First Reading:      04-08-08
Second Reading:      05-13-08
Publication Date:   05-21-08
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01  SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Paintsville Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted.  Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.  (KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified.  Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.”  Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.”  Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION.  Includes all proceedings in any court of this state. (KRS 446.010
(1))
   AND.  May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL.  Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being. 
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS.  The automated vehicle information system established and maintained
by the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information
on vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator's
licenses and personal identification cards. (KRS 446.010(55))
   CATTLE.  Includes horse, mule, ass, cow, ox, sheep, hog, or goat of any age
or sex. (KRS 446.010(8))
   CITY,MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY.  When used in this code shall
denote the City of Paintsville irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMMONWEALTH.  The Commonwealth or State of Kentucky.
   COMPANY.  May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association. (KRS 446.010(10))
   CORPORATION.  May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association. (KRS 446.010(11))
   COUNCIL.  The city legislative body.  (KRS 83A.010(5))
   COUNTY.  Johnson County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY.  As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted.  (KRS
446.010(13))
   DIRECTORS.  When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees. 
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC.  When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state.  (KRS 446.010(15))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL.  Any animal converted to domestic habitat. (KRS 446.010
(16))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY.  The Mayor.  (KRS 83A.010(6))
   FEDERAL.  Refers to the United States.  (KRS 446.010(18))
   FOREIGN.  When applied to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
business trust, statutory trust, or limited liability company, includes all
those incorporated or formed by authority of any other state.  (KRS 446.010
(19))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR.  Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   KRS.  Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE.  Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.  (KRS
446.010(24))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY.  The City Council.  (KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER.  A City Councilmember.  (KRS 83A.010(8))
   MAY.  The act referred to is permissive.  (KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH.  Calendar month.  (KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY.  The City of Paintsville, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes AFFIRMATION in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010(28))
   OWNER. When applied to any animal, means any person having a property
interest in such animal. (KRS 446.010(29))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited partnerships. (KRS 446.010
(30))
   PEACE OFFICER.  Includes sheriffs, constables, coroners, jailers,
metropolitan and urban- county government correctional officers, marshals,
policemen, and other persons with similar authority to make arrests.  (KRS
446.010(31))
   PERSON.  May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies.  (KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY.  Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES.  As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY.  Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY.  Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY.  Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION.  The election in even-numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected. (KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory.  (KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK.  That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE.  The State or Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET.  Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER.  A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the
heading.  Not all chapters have subchapters.
   SWORN.  Includes AFFIRMED in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT.  As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE.  Such as exists when there is an unexpired part of a term
of office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the person elected or
appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, county, city, or district, or otherwise.  (KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE.  Includes failure to comply with.  (KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR.  Calendar year.  (KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural.  A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things. (KRS
446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine.  A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males. (KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction.  All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council.  (KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity.  No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared. (KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms.  All words and phrases shall be construed according
to the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases
and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the
law, shall be construed according to such meaning. (KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04  COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included.  The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned.  When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time.  If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or notice shall
mean the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty
or compliance with such notice.
§ 10.05  MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
officers or other persons.  (KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be construed to
include such acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06  WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part,
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08  REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09  RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of such proceedings.  If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, such provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10  CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.  All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving such purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14  AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein.  Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages.  Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances
until Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.37 should be used by the city to amend, add, or repeal a chapter, section,
or division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15  CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail.  If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.  No
alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the
nature or extent of such error.
§ 10.18  HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section.  Example:  (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed l-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word- for-word the same as the statute.  Example:  (KRS
83A.090) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85).  If a KRS cite
is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text of the section, this
indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for further information.
Example:
   § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see KRS
61.870 et seq.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
Statutory reference:
   Fine amount for ordinance violation authorized by state law, see KRS 83A.065
and 534.040
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY COUNCIL
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
35.   TAXATION
      
36.   COMMITTEES AND COMMISSIONS
      
37.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
38.   POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
      
39.   CODE OF ETHICS
      
40.   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
CHAPTER 30:  MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01  FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the “Mayor-
Council Plan.”
(KRS 83A.130(1))
§ 30.02  GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by such other officers and employees as are provided for by
statute or city ordinance.  (KRS 83A.130(2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of six members. (KRS 83A.030(1))
CHAPTER 31:  CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath; bond
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
Elected Officials
   
31.20   Election procedure
   
31.21   Mayor
   
31.22   Councilmembers
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.35   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.36   City Clerk
   
31.37   Assistant City Clerk
   
31.38   Finance Officer/Budget Director
   
31.39   City Administrator
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01  OATH; BOND.
   (A)   Oath.  Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his office, take the following oath:  “I do solemnly
swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of
this Commonwealth, and the Constitution of the United States, and be faithful
and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue a citizen
thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the
office of           , according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or
affirm) that, since the adoption of the present Constitution, I being a citizen
of this United States, have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this
State, nor out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel
with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor
aided or assisted any person thus offending, so help me God,” as established by
section 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (B)   Certification of the person administering the oath of office to an
elected official shall certify in writing that the oath was administered and
the date of its administration.  Said certification shall be filed in
accordance with KRS 62.020.
   (C)   Bond.
      (1)   All officers, officials, and employees of cities, counties, urban-
county governments, charter county governments, a regional wastewater
commission, and special districts who handle public funds in the execution of
their duties shall give a good and sufficient bond to the local governing body
for the faithful and honest performance of his or her duties and as security
for all money coming into that person's hands or under that person's control. 
The bond amount shall be based upon the maximum amount of public funds the
officer, official, or employee handles at any given time during a fiscal year
cycle.  The local governing body shall pay the cost of the bond.
      (2)   Elected officials who post bond as required by statute, and
employees of their offices covered by a blanket or umbrella bond, shall be
deemed to have complied with division (C)(1) of this section.
(KRS 65.067)
§ 31.02  COMPENSATION.
   (A)   City Council shall establish the compensation of every elected city
officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in which the officer
is elected.  An elected officer's compensation shall not be changed after his
election or during his term of office.
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of Mayors and Councilmembers
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Governor’s Office for Local
Development computes by the second Friday in February of every year the annual
increase or decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using
1949 as the base year in accordance with section 246 of the Constitution of
Kentucky, which provides that the Mayor in cities of the first class shall be
paid at a rate no greater than $12,000 per annum and Mayors in cities other
than the first class and Councilmembers shall be paid at a rate no greater than
$7,200 per annum.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Governor’s Office for Local Development.
   (B)   The City Council shall fix the compensation of each appointed city
officer by ordinance and may change it by ordinance.
   (C)   The City Council shall establish the compensation of city employees in
accordance with the personnel and pay classification plan ordinance of the
city.
   (D)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
(Am. Ord. 96-011, passed 12-23-96)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
§ 31.03  REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers.  Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
inability, or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his office,
may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the City
Council exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation  of his removal.  No elected officer shall be removed without
having been given  the  right to a full public hearing.  The officer, if
removed, has the right to appeal to the circuit court of the county and the
appeal shall be on the record.  No officer so removed is eligible to fill the
office vacated before the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers.  Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(2)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.20  ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The city shall conduct nonpartisan elections for city officers in
accordance with KRS Chapter 83A and the general election laws set forth in KRS
Chapters 116 through 121, except as provided by division (H) of this section.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) of this section by ordinance, except that no change
shall be made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and City Councilmembers may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office.  Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
   (H)   Pursuant to KRS 83A.045(2)(b)(1), the city forgoes the conducting of a
nonpartisan primary election for the nomination of candidates to city offices,
regardless of the number of candidates running for each office, and requires
all candidates to file their nomination papers with the County Court Clerk no
earlier than the first Wednesday after the first Monday in November of the year
preceding the year in which the office will appear on the ballot and no later
than the second Tuesday in August before the day fixed by KRS Chapter 118 for
the holding of a regular election for the office. 
(Ord. 89-1, passed 1-10-89)
Statutory reference:
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080(3), (4)
§ 31.21  MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office.  The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election.  A candidate for Mayor shall be a
resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his election. His term
of office begins on the first day of January following his election and shall
be for four years and until his successor qualifies. If a person is elected or
appointed as Mayor in response to a vacancy and serves less than four calendar
years, then that period of service shall not be considered for purposes of re-
election a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications.  The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his term
of office.
   (C)   Vacancy.  If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, Council shall
fill the vacancy within 30 days.  If for any reason, any vacancy in the office
of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(1), (2), (6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Council shall not vote for himself.  (KRS 83A.040(2)(c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his successor.  (KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council.  The resignation shall be effective at
the next regular meeting of the City Council occurring after the date specified
in the written letter of resignation.  (KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   Pursuant to KRS 118.305(7), if a vacancy occurs in the office of
Mayor which is required by law to be filled temporarily by appointment, the
City Council shall immediately notify in writing both the County Clerk and the
Secretary of State of the vacancy.  (KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the office
of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130 to 83A.150.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall
be exercised by the Mayor.  The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council Plan,
city ordinances and orders, and all applicable statutes.  He shall supervise
all departments of city government and the conduct of all city officers and
employees under his jurisdiction and require each department to make reports to
him as required by ordinance or as he deems desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he finds appropriate or as required
by ordinance, but not less than annually.  He shall make any recommendations
for actions by the Council he finds in the public interest. 
(KRS 83A.130(3))
      (4)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to insure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statutes or ordinances.  Upon promulgation or upon revision
or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the person
responsible for maintaining city records.  (KRS 83A.130(4))
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor's power, duties, or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his official authority
to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order.  Executive
orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a permanent file. 
(KRS 83A.130(7))
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his agent designated by executive
order.  (KRS 83A.130(8))
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance, or contract.  (KRS
83A.130(9))
      (8)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he is unable to attend to the duties
of his office by delegating responsibility for any function to be performed, in
accordance with division (D)(5) above.  However, the Mayor may not delegate the
responsibility of presiding at meetings of the Council, and the authority to
approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may only be
delegated to an elected officer. With approval of the Council, the Mayor may
rescind any action taken in his absence under this section within 30 days of
such action.  If for any reason the disability of the Mayor to attend to his
duties persists for 60 consecutive days, the office of Mayor may be declared
vacant by a majority vote of the Council and the provisions of §
31.21(C) shall apply.  (KRS 83A.130(10))
   (E)   In the event of the occurrence or threatened or impending occurrence
of any of the situations or events contemplated by KRS 39A.010, 39A.020 or
39A.030, which in the judgment of the local chief executive officer is of such
severity or complexity as to require the exercise of extraordinary emergency
measures, the Mayor is temporarily absent or disabled, the Mayor Pro-Tem may
declare in writing that an emergency exists, and thereafter, subject to any
orders of the Governor, shall have and may exercise for the period as the state
of emergency exists or continues, the following emergency powers:
      (1)   To enforce all laws and administrative regulations relating to
disaster and emergency response and to direct all local disaster and emergency
response forces and operations in the city.
      (2)   To exclude all nonessential, unauthorized, disruptive, or
uncooperative personnel from the scene of the emergency, and to command persons
or groups of persons at the scene to disperse. A person who refuses to leave an
area in which a written order of evacuation has been issued in accordance with
a written declaration of emergency or disaster may be forcibly removed to a
place of safety or shelter, or may, if this is resisted, be arrested by a peace
officer. Forcible removal or arrest shall not be exercised as options until all
reasonable efforts for voluntary compliance have been exhausted;
      (3)   To declare curfews and establish their limits;
      (4)   To order immediate purchase or rental of, contract for, or
otherwise procure, without regard to procurement codes or budget requirements,
the goods or services essential for protection of public health and safety and
to restore essential public services; and
      (5)   To request emergency assistance from any local government or
special district and, through the Governor, to request emergency assistance
from any state agency and to initiate requests for federal assistance as are
necessary for protection of public health and safety or for continuation of
essential public services.
(Ord. 2003-014, passed 11-11-03)
§ 31.22  COUNCILMEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Chapter 32.
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.35  ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office;
      (4)   Bond, if required; and
      (5)   Compensation, which may be specifically established or set by
reference to another ordinance in which the compensation is specifically
established.
   (B)   All non-elected city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor with
approval of City Council.  City Police Officers, excluding the Chief of Police,
who is considered a non-elected city officer, shall be appointed by the Mayor
at will, and appointments of those police officers need not be approved by the
City Council.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Mayor at will unless
otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (D)   The following are nonelected city offices:
      (1)   City Clerk;
      (2)   Assistant City Clerk;
      (3)   City Treasurer;
      (4)   Police Chief;
      (5)   Fire Chief; and
      (6)    Finance Officer.
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1),(2)
§ 31.36  CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk shall include, but are
not limited to the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the “official custodian” or
“custodian” pursuant to KRS 61.870 through 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used;
      (4)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail to the Department for
Local Government a list containing current city information including but not
limited to the following:
         (a)   The correct name of the Mayor, legislative body members, and the
following appointed officials who are serving as of January 1 of each year:
            1.  City Clerk;
            2.  City Manager;
            3.  City Attorney;
            4.  Finance Director;
            5.  Police Chief;
            6.  Fire Chief; and
            7.  Public Works Director;
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for city hall, and
telephone number of the city hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.;
      (5)   The Clerk shall serve as Tax Collector for the city.
      (6)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk or City Treasurer by statute or ordinance and as further
specified by the position descriptions set forth in §§
37.25 and
37.27.
(KRS 83A.085)
   (D)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City Council
from time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
   (E)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk unless such
person has taken the oath required by section 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond, if required, with corporate
surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and conditioned upon the
performance of the duties specified herein.
§ 31.37  ASSISTANT CITY CLERK.
   (A)   There is created the office of Assistant City Clerk of the city.
   (B)   The powers and duties of this office shall be as provided in the
position description set forth in §
37.26.
   (C)   The oath of office to be executed by the Assistant City Clerk shall be
that set forth in Section 228 of the Constitution of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky.  Before entering upon the duties of the office, the Assistant City
Clerk shall provide bond, if required, with a corporate surety authorized and
qualified to transact business in Kentucky and conditioned upon the performance
of the duties specified in division (B) above.
   (D)   Compensation for this office shall be in an amount established by
ordinance of City Council.
§ 31.38  FINANCE OFFICER/BUDGET DIRECTOR.
   (A)   There is created the office of Finance Officer/Budget Director of the
city.
   (B)   The powers and duties of this office shall be as provided in the
position description set forth in §
37.16.
   (C)   The oath of office to be executed by the Finance Officer/Budget Office
shall be that set forth in Section 228 of the Constitution of the Commonwealth
of Kentucky.  Before entering upon the duties of the office, the Finance
Officer/Budget Officer shall provided bond, if required, with a corporate
surety authorized and qualified to transact business in Kentucky and
conditioned upon the performance of the duties specified in division (B) above.
   (D)   Compensation for this office shall be in an amount as established by
ordinance of City Council.
§ 31.39  CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   This section shall be known as the Section Establishing Position of
City Administrator.
   (B)   The city hereby establishes the position of City Administrator for the
city.
   (C)   The characteristics of the office of City Administrator shall be to
administer and coordinate all phases of city operation under executive
direction.
   (D)   Specific powers, duties, and responsibilities of the office are as
follows:
      (1)   Offer advice and policy formation on overall operation of the city;
      (2)   Implement directives and policies of the city;
      (3)   Present reports to Mayor and City Council of the condition of city
and city business;
      (4)   Plan, evaluate and administer all phases of municipal operations
including financing and budgeting, personnel, planning, building and zoning,
police protection, fire protection, contract review and negotiations;
      (5)   Recommend candidates for hiring as city employees;
      (6)   Direct and coordinate department heads concerning the
implementation and administration of programs, responsibility for granting
acquisition of management;
      (7)   Preparation and administration of the operating and capital
improvement budgets; and
      (8)   Responding to public requests, meeting with citizens in regard to
municipal services, serve in liaison with other governmental units, represent
the city in public relations at civic, church, school, similar organizations,
and communication with news media, any and all other functions consistent with
this list of specific responsibilities, powers and duties, and all duties and
responsibilities of the position as outlined in KRS 83A.090 which are not
specifically listed herein.
   (E)   Oath of office and bond shall be as required in Section 631.01 and
Section 631.02 of the City Code of Ordinances.
   (F)   Compensation for the City Administration shall be in accordance with §
31.02 of the City Code of Ordinances.
   (G)   Position qualifications/training and experience are as follows: 
Bachelor of Science Degree in Business, Public Administration or related field
from an accredited college or university supplemented by three years of
progressively responsible experience in management; or any combination of
education, training or experience which provides the necessary knowledge,
skills and abilities to perform effectively the duties of the position.
   (H)   Special knowledge skills and abilities required by this position shall
be extensive knowledge of the principles and practices of contemporary, private
and public administration with emphasis on the planning, implementation and
evaluation of policies and programs; working knowledge of executive and
legislative policies and procedures; ability to establish and maintain
effective working relationships with employees, public and private officials in
the general public; ability to communicate effectively orally and in writing;
ability to have leadership and management; maintaining a valid driver's license
and remain insurable in order to operate a city vehicle; initiative and
resourcefulness; analytical ability; leadership and administrative abilities;
tact; diplomacy; firmness; patience; integrity; and sound judgment.
   (I)   Physical abilities necessary for the function of this position are: 
ability to operate standard office equipment; ability to access filing
cabinets; visual ability sufficient to effectively operate office equipment; to
read and write reports, correspondence, instructions, et cetera; hearing
ability sufficient to hold conversations with other individuals both in person
and over a telephone; speaking abilities sufficient to communicate effectively
with other individuals in person or over a telephone; and freedom from mental
disorders which would interfere with the performance of duties as described.
(Ord. 96-004, passed 7-9-96)
CHAPTER 32:  CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
Rules of Procedure
   
32.20   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.21   Meetings
   
32.22   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.35   One subject; title
   
32.36   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.37   Form of amendment
   
32.38   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.39   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
32.40   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.41   Official city records
   
32.42   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.43   Publication requirements
   
32.44   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.45   Periodic review required
   
32.46   Municipal orders
   
32.47   Proved by Clerk; received in evidence
   
32.48   Legislative immunity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01  MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office.  Each Councilmember shall be elected at-
large by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for City
Council shall be a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his
election. Terms of office begin on the first day of January following the
election and shall be for two years, except as provided by KRS 83A.050.
   (B)   Qualifications.  A member shall be at least 18 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his term
of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation.  For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02.
§ 32.02  VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies.  If one or more vacancies on Council occur in a way that
one or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30 days
fill the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice
of his selection as will enable him to meet and act with the remaining members
in making further appointments until all vacancies are filled.  If vacancies
occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor shall appoint
qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute a quorum. 
Remaining vacancies are filled as provided in this section.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council.  The resignation shall be
effective at the next regular meeting of the City Council occurring after the
date specified in the written letter of resignation. 
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   Pursuant to KRS 118.305(7), if a vacancy occurs on the City Council
which is required by law to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City
Council shall immediately notify in writing both the County Clerk and the
Secretary of State of the vacancy.  (KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies.  If for any reason, any vacancy on Council
is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill
the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same
period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall be
exercised by the elected Council of the city.  The Council may not perform any
executive functions except those functions assigned to it by statute.  (KRS
83A.130(11))
   (B)   The Council shall establish all appointive offices and the duties and
responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and regulations for the
public health, safety, and welfare.  (KRS 83A.130(12))
   (C)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources.  (KRS 83A.130(12))
   (D)   The Council may investigate all activities of city government.  The
Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and submit to it
sworn statements regarding the performance of his official duties.  Any
statement required by the Council to be submitted or any investigation
undertaken by the Council, if any office, department, or agency under the
jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or undertaken
unless and until written notice of the Council's action is given to the Mayor. 
The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the Council and to
appear personally or through his designee on behalf of any department, office,
or agency in the course of any investigation.
(KRS 83A.130(13))
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.20  MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council.  The Council has
the authority to establish, by ordinance, the manner in  which one of its
number may be selected to preside at meetings of the Council in the absence of
the Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in Council proceedings, but shall not have a
vote, except that he may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130(5))
Cross-reference:
   Council's responsibility to select one of its own members to preside when
there is  vacancy in the office of Mayor, see §
31.21
§ 32.21  MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Council shall be held on the second Monday of
each month at 6:00 p.m. at the Paintsville Community Center on Preston Street.
   (B)   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or upon
written request of a majority of the Council.  In the call, the Mayor or
Council shall designate the purpose, time, and place of the special meeting
with sufficient notice for the attendance of Council members and for compliance
with KRS Chapter 61.
   (C)   At a special meeting no business may be considered other than that set
forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person responsible
for maintaining city records as provided under §
31.36 and by the officer presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.130(11))  (Am. Ord. 2015-002, passed 3-10-15)
§ 32.22  QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Council constitutes
a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take action.
(KRS 83A.060(6))
ORDINANCES
§ 32.35  ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
clearly states the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1))
§ 32.36  INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled “Be it ordained by the City of Paintsville.”
(KRS 83A.060 (2))
§ 32.37  FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket.  The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060(3))
§ 32.38  READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance shall
be enacted until it has been read on two separate days.  The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.  An affirmative vote of a majority of the City Council
present and voting is required at each of the two readings for an ordinance to
become law.  (Ord. passed 5-25-82)
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance.  Publication requirements of §
32.43 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(4),(7))
§ 32.39  APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance by
affixing his signature or disapprove it by returning it to the Council together
with a statement of his objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor's approval unless he
fails to return it to the legislative body within ten days after receiving it
or unless the Council votes to override the Mayor's veto, upon reconsideration
of the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting following its
return, by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of the membership.
(KRS 83A.130(6))
§ 32.40  ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is
made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5))
§ 32.41  OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Council is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Council has provided, under the provisions of  §§
31.36(C) and
32.42, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city.  The City Clerk and the presiding officer shall sign the official record
of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.42  INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.43  PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.38(B), no ordinance shall be effective until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
legislative body.  If the legislative body elects to publish an ordinance in
summary, the summary shall be prepared and certified by an attorney licensed to
practice law in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions. 
(KRS 83A.060(9))
§ 32.44  ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10))
§ 32.45  PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent,
and invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11))
§ 32.46  MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Council may adopt municipal orders.  All municipal orders shall be in
writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance.  All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the Council has control.
(KRS 83A.060(12), (13))
§ 32.47  PROVED BY CLERK; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of ordinances by
authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in evidence by any
state court without further proof of such ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14))
§ 32.48  LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Councilmembers shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protection allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15))
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33:  FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
   
33.06   Fiscal year
Improvements
   
33.10   Definitions
   
33.11   Financing of improvements
   
33.12   Apportionment of cost
   
33.13   Comprehensive report required
   
33.14   Public hearing required
   
33.15   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.16   Affected owner may contest
   
33.17   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.18   Effect of additional property or change in financing
Small Purchase Procedures
   
33.30   Purpose
   
33.31   Definitions
   
33.32   Determination of need; cost of purchase
   
33.33   Purchase order; manner of purchase
   
33.34   Purchase request record
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01  DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   BUDGET.  A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE.  The sum of money required to pay installments of principal
and interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a
fiscal year and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES.  Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation.  An obligation ceases to be an encumbrance
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR.  The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS.  Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
(KRS 91A.010(6))
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010(7))
§ 33.02  ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 33.03  ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section.  No moneys
shall be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund except in
accordance with a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Moneys held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year. 
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in such form and detail as
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to Council not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal year it
covers.  The budget message shall contain an explanation of the governmental
goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain important
features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the reasons for
stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs, and
appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   Council may adopt the budget ordinance making appropriations for
the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether greater
or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal.  The budget ordinance
may take any form that Council finds most efficient in enabling it to make the
necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of
Section 157 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated, for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance's adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor.  Such responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to Council of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted.  Such reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer, or employee of any city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency.  All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, express or implied, beyond such existing
appropriations are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond,
certificate, or warrant for the payment of money by the city in any way to any
extent, beyond the balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030)
§ 33.04  ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The city shall, after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund
of the city to be audited by the auditor of public accounts or a certified
public accountant.  The audits shall be completed by February 1 immediately
following the fiscal year being audited.  Within ten days of the completion of
the audit and its presentation to the city legislative body, pursuant to
division (B)(5) of this section, each city shall forward an electronic copy or
three paper copies of the audit report to the Department for Local Government
for information purposes.  The Department for Local Government shall forward
one  electronic or paper copy of the audit report to the Legislative Research
Commission to be used for the purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (B)   The city required by this section to conduct an annual or biannual
audit shall enter into a written contract with the selected auditor.  The
contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall
include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual city audit report an
examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to the city
under KRS 42.450 to 42.495.  The auditor shall include a certification with the
annual audit report that the funds were expended for the purpose intended.
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which includes such tests of the
accounting records and such auditing procedures as considered necessary under
the circumstances.  Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal
funds, appropriate state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor’s opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit;
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to Council at a regular or special meeting.
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant's workpapers upon request.
   (C)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (D)   The city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the  City Council, publish an advertisement, in accordance with KRS Chapter
424, containing:
      (1)   The auditor’s opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules - Major Funds,” which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at city hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from city hall a copy of
the complete auditor report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $0.25 per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220, when a financial statement is required thereby,
are available to the public at no cost at the business address of the officer
responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (E)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined
not less than $50 nor more than $500.  In addition, any officer who fails to
comply with any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be
subject to a forfeiture of not less than $50 nor more than $500, in the
discretion of the court, which may be recovered only once, in a civil action
brought by any resident of the city.  The costs of all proceedings, including a
reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident bringing the action, shall be
assessed against the unsuccessful party.
(KRS 91A.040(1), (4) - (6), (8))
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050.
§ 33.05  OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city's official depositories one or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the Commonwealth.  The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with 12 U.S.C. sec. 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any
obligations, including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories.  All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which states
the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the payment,
and the fund out of which the funds are payable.  Each authorization shall be
numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060)
§ 33.06  FISCAL YEAR.
   For the purpose of all business transactions, including that of budget and
other financial matters, the city does hereby change its present business year
from that of a calendar year (January 1 - December 31) to a fiscal year which
shall be July 1 of each year until June 30 of the following year.
(Ord. 75-1, passed 7-23-75)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.10  DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS.  The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all such properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS.  The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by Council of the special benefit received
by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis, front foot
basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may include
consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different classes
of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received, and other
factors affecting benefits received.
   COST.  All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs, and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS.  Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS.  The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to such front footage of all such properties.
   IMPROVEMENT.  Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by such facility.
   PROPERTY.  Any real property benefited by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT.  A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS.  The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all such property.
(KRS 91A.210)
§ 33.11  FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes.  (KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing. 
(KRS 91A.220)
Statutory reference:
   Improvements; alternate methods, see KRS Ch. 107
§ 33.12  APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization.  Council
may assess such property in the same manner as for privately owned property or
it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230)
§ 33.13  COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240)
§ 33.14  PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   After preparation of the report required by §
33.13, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard.  Notice of the
hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, and mailed to each
affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall
include:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   Description of area of the improvement;
   (C)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in whole
or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
   (D)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
   (E)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250)
§ 33.15  ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.13 and a description of all properties.  Promptly upon passage the city
shall publish such ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by
certified mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to
proceed with the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the
estimated cost to the property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property
owner bears to the total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260)
§ 33.16  AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.15, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his property in the improvement, or the amount of his
assessment.  If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by the
special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution are final and binding with respect to such
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments.  After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270)
§ 33.17  WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.16, or after favorable final judgment in any such action, whichever comes
later, the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the
action, including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment
thereon and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement.  The
first installment may be apportioned so that other payments will coincide with
payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement.  The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners.  No error in the proceedings of the Council shall
exempt any benefited property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280)
§ 33.18  EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.13 through
33.17 applies if additional property is included in the improvement or if
change is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property
may be included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof
without compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost
apportioned to any other property, or any other change may be made without such
compliance if all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290)
SMALL PURCHASE PROCEDURES
§ 33.30  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to comply with the requirements of KRS
45A.385.
(Ord. 80-02, passed 1-28-80)
§ 33.31  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SMALL PURCHASES.  Purchases of small supplies, services or construction not
to exceed $2,500.
   SINGLE PURCHASE.  The purchase of supplies, services or construction which
is not a portion or an artificially created subdivision of a purchase of
greater value than $2,500.
   PURCHASER.  The city officer or employee who actual contracts with a vendor
for the purchase of an item. 
(Ord. 80-02, passed 1-28-80)
§ 33.32  DETERMINATION OF NEED; COST OF PURCHASE.
   The Mayor of the city shall determine the need for any item requested and
whether or not the purchase of such item or items is for less than $2,500 and
whether or not the expenditure is provided for in the budget.
   (A)   For purchases of items of a value of less than $100, the Mayor may
delegate the requirement of a determination as to whether or not the
expenditure is provided for in the budget to the department head of the
department for which the item is being purchased or any other city officer or
employees.
   (B)   Whether the Mayor or his delegates makes the determination a record
shall be made where in the amount of the purchase shall be levied against the
portion of the budget against which the purchase is made.
(Ord. 80-02, passed 1-28-80)
§ 33.33  PURCHASE ORDER; MANNER OF PURCHASE.
   (A)   (1)   The department which is requesting the purchase of an item shall
file with the City Treasurer a purchase order (“PO”) which shall:
         (a)   Describe the item requested with sufficient detail;
         (b)   Designate the department making the request;
         (c)   Describe the purpose for which the item will be used and be
signed by the head of the department.
      (2)   The Mayor may sign as approving for any department.
   (B)   The Mayor of the city may designated an employee or officer of the
city to make small purchases for the city.
   (C)   Purchases whether made by the Mayor or his designee shall be made in
the following manner:
      (1)   The purchaser for the city shall obtain three price quotes from
vendors and select the one most advantageous to the city when possible.
      (2)   In the case where there are only two vendors, the purchase for the
city shall obtain quotes from each vendor and select the one most advantageous
to the city.
      (3)   In the case where only one vendor supplies the item after inquiring
with three or more vendors the purchaser for the city shall make a written
determination stating all sources contacted and the price quoted by the
supplier.  The purchaser shall then contact the requestor and provide him the
information.  The requestor shall then make a written determination of the
reasonableness of the price and the need for the item.  The purchase shall then
and only then make the purchase.  The written determination shall be filed with
the purchase price.
      (4)   For items which are special made or specifically made for equipment
already owned or being used by the city the purchaser shall request the price
from the nearest equipment parts supplier and inform the requestor of the
price.  The requestor shall then make a written determination of the
reasonableness of the price and the need for the item.  The purchaser shall
then and only then purchase the item.  The written determination shall be filed
with the purchaser order.
(Ord. 80-02, passed 1-28-80)
§ 33.34  PURCHASE REQUEST RECORD.
   The purchaser shall maintain a purchase request record.
   (A)   The record shall reflect the purchase order number and the department
making the request.
   (B)   The record shall reflect the vendors who were contacted, the prices
quoted and the date of such quote.
   (C)   The record shall reflect which vendor was selected and the final
purchase price.
   (D)   The record shall reflect, when only a single vendor was contacted and
the requestor who made the determination of fairness of price and need for the
item.
(Ord. 80-02, passed 1-28-80)
CHAPTER 34:  PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.05   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.06   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.07   Public records not immediately available
   
34.08   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.09   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.10   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.11   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.12   Format of copies
   
34.13   Fees for copies
   
34.14   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
34.15   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
34.16   Public records protected from disclosure
   
34.17   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   CITY.  The city government of this city.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE.  The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee.  COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its news
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   CUSTODIAN.  The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records.  The CUSTODIAN having personal custody
of most of the public records of this city is the City Clerk.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING.  Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
   MEDIA.  The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN.  The chief administrative officer or any other officer
or employee of the city who is responsible for the maintenance, care, and
keeping of public records, regardless of whether such records are in his actual
personal custody and control. The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall be the
Mayor.
   PERSON.  A human being who makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE.  The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY.  The city, including its legislative body and every officer,
department and division of the city; every entity created by authority of the
city; any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council or agency created and controlled by the city; and
any interagency body in which the city participates.
   PUBLIC RECORDS.  All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of
or retained by the city.  PUBLIC RECORDS shall not include any records owned or
maintained by or for the city that are not related to functions, activities,
programs, or operations funded by the city nor any records that may be excluded
by §
34.16.
   REQUEST.  An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the city.
(KRS 61.870)
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
city's computer system.  SOFTWARE consists of the operating system, application
programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators and utility
programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited from
disclosure or copying by a license agreement between the city and an outside
entity which supplied the material to the city.
(KRS 61.870)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.05  INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of this city
shall make a request for inspection at the office of the City Clerk during
regular office hours, except during legal holidays.  The official custodian, or
the custodian acting under the authority of the official custodian, may require
a request to inspect public records to be in writing, signed by the applicant
and with the applicant's name printed legibly on the application.  A written
request to inspect public records may be presented by hand delivery, mail or
via facsimile, if one is available.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person's request is in compliance
with this chapter and the open records law, and the requested public records
are immediately available, the custodian shall deliver the records for
inspection.  A person may inspect public records at the designated office of
the city during the regular office hours, or in appropriate cases, by receiving
copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the city,
suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk or
in another office of the city as determined by the official custodian or
custodian for the inspection.  No person shall remove original copies of public
records from the offices of the city without the written permission of the
official custodian of the record.  When public records are inspected at the
city offices, the person inspecting the records shall have the right to make
abstracts and memoranda of the public records and to obtain copies of all
public records not exempt by the terms of §
34.12.  When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where
appropriate.  If the applicant desires copies of public records other than
written records, the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or
permit the applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall
ensure that such duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
   (D)   Nonexempt public records used for commercial purposes shall be
available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the city
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where the city currently maintains records in hard copy format. The city is not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
   (E)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be not less than 8½ x
11 inches in at least one color on white paper, or for electronic format, in a
flat file electronic American Standard Code for Information Interchange (ASCII)
format. If the city maintains electronic public records in a format other than
ASCII, and this format conforms to the requestor's requirements, the public
record may be provided in this alternate electronic format for standard fees as
specified by the city. Any request for a public record in a form other than the
forms described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
   (F)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee and
the cost of mailing.
§ 34.06  REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk does not have custody or control of the public record or
records requested, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant and shall furnish
the name and location of the official custodian of the city's public records.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 34.07  PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed three days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays) from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on
which the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5))
§ 34.08  REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the city, the official
custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or mail copies
thereof.  However, refusal under this section must be sustained by clear and
convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
§ 34.09  TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within three days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and
legal holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
three-day period of its decision.  Any city response denying, in whole or in
part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld.  The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under his authority and shall constitute final
city action.
(KRS 61.880)
§ 34.10  CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
§ 34.11  ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or in
which he is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate identification,
subject to the provisions of §
34.16 of these rules and regulations.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 34.12  FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
34.16. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where appropriate.
If the applicant desires copies of public records other than written records,
the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or permit the
applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall ensure that
such duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the city
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than 8½ inches x 11 inches in at least one color on white paper, or for
electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard Code for
Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the city maintains electronic public
records in a format other than ASCII, and this format conforms to the
requestor's requirements, the public record may be provided in this alternate
electronic format for standard fees as specified by the city. Any request for a
public record in a form other than the forms described in this section shall be
considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(1) - (2))
§ 34.13  FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   The city may prescribe a reasonable fee for making copies of nonexempt
public records requested for use for noncommercial purposes which shall not
exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of the media and
any mechanical processing cost incurred by the city, but not including the cost
of staff required. If the city is asked to produce a record in a
nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request of an
individual or a group, the city may at its discretion provide the requested
format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs incurred.
   (B)   (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the city may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The city from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the city. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) of this section may be
based on one or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the city of media, mechanical processing, and staff
required to produce a copy of the public record or records;
         (b)   Cost to the city of the creation, purchase, or other acquisition
of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(3),(4))
Cross-reference:
   Fees for online access to public records, see §
34.15
§ 34.14  MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the city pursuant to §
34.13;
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.15  ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the city. If a party wishes to access
public records by electronic means and the city agrees to provide online
access, the city may require that the party enter into a contract, license, or
other agreement with the city, and may charge fees for these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
34.13.
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 34.16  PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except as provided in KRS
61.878(1) that no court shall authorize the inspection by any party of any
materials pertaining to civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the
Rules of Civil Procedure governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy.
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to the city and compiled and
maintained for scientific research.  This exemption shall not, however, apply
to records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute.
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to the city, or required by
the city to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records.
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to the city or required by the
city to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or proprietary
which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS
Ch. 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (b)
above, shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
directed by statute.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business'
or industry's interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth.  This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(3) above.
      (5)   Public records which are developed by the city in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the city's internal examining or audit criteria and related analytical
methods.
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for the city relative to the
acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired.  The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision.
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again.
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the city by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action  or  administrative  adjudication.  Unless 
exempted by other provisions of  this  chapter,  public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action.  The exemptions provided by this
subdivision shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or
impede the exercise of rights granted by this chapter.
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of the city.
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended.
      (11)   All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation.
      (12)   Public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly.
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Counterterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems.  These
critical systems shall include, but not be limited to, information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage, and gas systems;
            7.   The following records, when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division:  detailed drawings, schematics,
maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and operating,
utility, or security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied,
leased, or maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records, when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division, and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, TERRORIST ACT means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in §
34.16(A)(13)(a)6.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that the city denies a request to inspect a
public record for a reason identified in this division, the city shall forward
a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS 61.880(1), to
the executive director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland Security and the
Attorney General.
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of the
city with respect to disclosure and availability of public records under state
environmental, health, and safety programs.
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law; and   
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency.  This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person.  In addition, if any public record contains material which
is not excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of § 34.08.
   (C)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge,
or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him.  Such records shall
include, but not be limited to work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and preliminary and other
supporting documentation.  A city employee, applicant, or eligible shall not
have the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to
ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by the city.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
(KRS 61.878)
§ 34.17  NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the open
records law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
CHAPTER 35:  TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   County assessment adopted
   
35.02   Due date; payment
   
35.03   Delinquency
   
35.04   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles
   
35.05   Disposition of funds
   
35.06   Bank franchise and local deposit tax
Abandoned Urban Properties
   
35.15   Abandoned urban property classified as real property
   
35.16   Rate of taxation
   
35.17   Right to appeal classification
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01  COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted in KRS 132.285, the city hereby
adopts the Johnson County assessment for all real and personal property
situated within the city as the basis of all ad valorem tax levies ordered or
approved by the City Council.
   (B)   The assessment as finally determined for county tax purposes shall
serve as the basis for all city levies for the fiscal year commencing after the
assessment date.
§ 35.02  DUE DATE; PAYMENT.
   All taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall become due on
November 1.
§ 35.03  DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   All city taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall
become delinquent on January 1 following their due dates, or if the due date is
at a date other than November 1, they shall become delinquent 30 days after the
date they have become due, which shall be defined as the date the bill is
mailed to the taxpayer.
   (B)   Any taxes not paid by the date when they become delinquent shall
accrue interest at a rate of 12% per annum until satisfied in full by making
payment to the City Clerk.  The delinquent taxpayer shall also pay all costs
and expenses incidental to any action taken by the city for collection of the
delinquent tax bill.
   (C)   (1)   The city does hereby adopt KRS 92.810 as a procedure for the
collection of delinquent ad valorem taxes.  In doing so, by reference KRS
91.484 through 91.527 are incorporated herein, as if copied at length as the
statutes to be used in collecting the taxes.
      (2)   Nothing herein contained shall limit the city's ability to collect
delinquent ad valorem taxes by any method contained in KRS Chapter 91 or 92
either now or in the future.
      (3)   Collections shall be in the manner now prescribed by the Property
Evaluation Commissioner including discounts and penalties.
(Ord. passed 8-9-88)
§ 35.04  AD VALOREM TAXES ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   All ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall be collected by the
Johnson County Clerk in accordance with KRS 134.800.
   (B)   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall become due and delinquent as
set forth in KRS 134.810 and any such taxes not paid by the date when they
become delinquent shall be subject to the penalty and interest specified in KRS
134.810.
§ 35.05  DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All monies collected from the taxes levied in this chapter shall be paid
into the General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Council.
§ 35.06  BANK FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX.
   (A)   It is hereby imposed on all FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, as defined in KRS
Chapter 136, located within the corporate limits of the city for the 1996 tax
year and all subsequent years, a franchise tax at the rate of 0.025% on all
deposits, as defined in KRS Chapter 136, maintained by such financial
institutions.
   (B)   For transition purposes, the 1996 tax year will be treated differently
in terms of collection of taxes than for all subsequent years. For the 1996 tax
year, the following tax table is hereby established: The City of Paintsville
will issue tax bills to financial institutions no later than May 1, 1997.
Payment of the tax shall be due with a 2% discount by May 31, 1997, or without
the discount by June 30, 1997.
   (C)   For all tax years subsequent to the 1996 tax year, the following time
table is hereby established:  The City of Paintsville will issue tax bills to
financial institutions no later than December 1 of each year. The payment of
the tax shall be due with a 2% discount by December 31 of each year,  or
without the discount by January 31 of each year.
   (D)   The city shall have a lien for taxes upon any and all properties
subject to the tax imposed by these sections, which lien shall be superior to
all encumbrances prior or subsequent.
   (E)   All taxes due in accordance with these sections which are not paid
before June 30, 1997, for the tax year 1996, or which are not paid before
January 31, for all subsequent tax years, shall be deemed delinquent and shall
be subject to a penalty of 10% and shall bear interest at the rate of 12% per
annum.
   (F)   All monies collected pursuant to these sections shall be paid into the
general fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper expenditures as
determined by the City Council.
(Ord. 96-008, passed 9-17-96)
ABANDONED URBAN PROPERTIES
§ 35.15  ABANDONED URBAN PROPERTY CLASSIFIED AS REAL PROPERTY.
   Abandoned urban property is established as a separate classification of real
property for the purpose of ad valorem taxation. As used in this subchapter,
ABANDONED URBAN PROPERTY means:
   (A)   Any vacant structure or vacant or unimproved lot or parcel of ground
in the city which has been vacant or unimproved for a period of at least one
year and which:
      (1)   Because it is dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe, vermin infested, or
otherwise dangerous to the safety of persons, it is unfit for its intended use;
      (2)   By reason of neglect or lack of maintenance has become a place for
the accumulation of trash and debris, or has become infested with rodents or
other vermin; or
      (3)   Has been tax delinquent for a period of at least three years; or
   (B)   Any property in the city that has been identified as “blighted” or
“deteriorated” by the Code Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 2005-004, passed 6-14-05)
§ 35.16  RATE OF TAXATION.
   The rate of taxation levied upon abandoned urban properties is $0.75 on each
$100 of assessed value.
(Ord. 2005-004, passed 6-14-05)
§ 35.17  RIGHT TO APPEAL CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall each year determine which
properties in the city are abandoned urban properties and shall prepare and
furnish a list of abandoned urban properties located in the city to the city
Tax Administration Officer and the Johnson County Property Valuation
Administrator prior to January 1 of each year.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) below, a property
classified by the Code Enforcement Department as abandoned urban property as of
January 1 shall be taxed as abandoned urban property for such tax year. If the
owner repairs, rehabilitates, or otherwise returns the property to productive
use so that the property is no longer abandoned urban property, he or she shall
notify the city, which shall, if it finds the property is no longer abandoned
urban property, notify the Tax Administration Office and the Johnson County
Property Valuation Administrator to strike the property from the list of
abandoned urban properties as of the succeeding January 1.
   (C)   No later than March 1 of each year, the Code Enforcement Officer shall
mail, by first class mail, to the owner(s) of each abandoned urban property, a
notice that this property has been classified as abandoned urban property. The
owner of any abandoned urban property who believes that his, her or its
property has been incorrectly classified may appeal the classification to the
Vacant Properties Review Commission. The appeal shall be in writing and shall
be made no later than April 1 of that year. The Commission shall afford the
owner the opportunity for a hearing. If the Commission finds that the property
was incorrectly classified as abandoned urban property, it shall cause the
property to be removed from the list of properties so classified. The
Commission shall develop policies and procedures for conducting such appeals.
(Ord. 2005-004, passed 6-14-05)
CHAPTER 36:  COMMITTEES AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Finance and Auditing Committee
   
36.01   Membership; terms
   
36.02   Duties
Hall Field Commission
   
36.15   Establishment and composition
   
36.16   Duties
Office of Emergency Management
   
36.25   Establishment
   
36.26   Appointment of Emergency Management Director
   
36.27   Powers and duties
   
36.28   Violations; penalty
Cemetery Board
   
36.40   Establishment
   
36.41   Membership
   
36.42   Meetings
Police Advisory Commission
   
36.50   Creation
   
36.51   Members
   
36.52   Adoption of rules and bylaws
   
36.53   Duties
Golf Board
   
36.60   Membership
   
36.61   Duties
   
36.62   General Manager
   
36.63   Employees
   
36.64   Finances
Cross-reference:
   Human Rights Commission, see §
96.07
   Planning and Zoning Commission, see §§
153.15,
153.16
   Tourist and Convention Commission, see §§
116.01 -
116.03
   Industrial Development Board, see §§
153.55 -
153.59
FINANCE AND AUDITING COMMITTEE
§ 36.01  MEMBERSHIP; TERMS.
   Three members of the City Council, appointed by the Mayor and approved by
the full Council, shall constitute the Finance and Auditing Committee and they
shall serve for a period coextensive with their Council terms of office, with
one member designated Chairperson of the Committee.
(Ord. 70-03, passed 4-7-70)
§ 36.02  DUTIES.
   (A)   The Finance and Auditing Committee shall oversee the City Clerk when
acting as City Tax Collector by reviewing city tax bills prior to issuance and
signifying approval by having the Chairperson sign the bills and return them to
the Clerk for collection.
   (B)   The Finance and Auditing Committee shall oversee the City Clerk when
acting as City Tax Collector and shall review all receipts and expenditures and
reports of such, including publication of the annual audit prepared by
certified public accountants.
   (C)   Other duties dealing with the financial status or transactions of the
city specifically designated by the City Council.
(Ord. 70-03, passed 4-7-70)
HALL FIELD COMMISSION
§ 36.15  ESTABLISHMENT AND COMPOSITION.
   A four-member commission shall be created to be named Hall Field
Commission.  This Commission shall consist of the President, Vice-President,
Secretary and Treasurer, of the Paintsville Little League, plus another person
to be appointed by the Mayor.
(Ord. 76-01, passed 2-3-76)
§ 36.16  DUTIES.
   (A)   The Commission's duties shall include supervision of all activities
and maintenance involving the Hall Baseball Field located at the Paintsville
Community Center.
   (B)   The Hall Field Commission shall also have the duty of supervising all
activities and maintenance involving the Cobb Clay Field (T-Ball Field) and the
minor league field which are located adjacent to the Hall Field.
(Ord. 76-01, passed 2-3-76; Am. Ord. 95-005, passed 6-15-95)
OFFICE OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
§ 36.25  ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created the city Office of Emergency Management, in
accordance with the provisions of KRS 39B.010, which shall serve in the
interest of public safety within the territorial boundaries of the city.
   (B)   The Office of Emergency Management shall develop, implement, and
maintain the local comprehensive emergency management program for the city in
accordance with the provisions of KRS Chapters  39A to 39F, the  comprehensive
emergency management program  requirements of the  state Division of Emergency
Management, the provisions of the Kentucky Emergency Operations Plan,
administrative regulations promulgated by the state Division of Emergency
Management, and the resolutions, orders or ordinances of the City Council.
   (C)   The Office of Emergency Management shall be an organizational unit of
city government attached to the Office of Mayor and shall have primary
jurisdiction, responsibility, and authority for all matters pertaining to the
comprehensive emergency management program and disaster and emergency response
of the city.
   (D)   The Office of Emergency Management shall meet all requirements for a
local emergency management agency as specified in KRS Chapters 39A to 39F, and
shall serve as the executive branch of the city Disaster and Emergency Services
organization established pursuant to KRS 39B.050.
   (E)   The Mayor of Paintsville shall designate, prepare, and include a
separate Office of Emergency Management budget unit classification within each
annual fiscal year city budget, and all financial matters of the city Office of
Emergency Management shall be handled through the city treasury and uniform
budget system.
(Ord. 99-004, passed 5-11-99)
§ 36.26  APPOINTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Mayor, within 30 days of assuming office, shall appoint a
Paintsville Emergency Management Director in accordance with the provisions of
KRS 39B.020, and shall immediately notify the state Division of Emergency
Management of the appointment.
   (B)   The city Emergency Management Director, appointed pursuant to this
section, shall be sworn by oath to the office of Emergency Management Director
immediately upon appointment, and shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor, but
shall serve no longer than four consecutive years without reappointment and, as
a minimum, shall meet all the qualification requirements as specified in KRS
39B.020.
(Ord. 99-004, passed 5-11-99)
§ 36.27  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The city Emergency Management Director shall have and exercise all the
powers, authorities, rights, and duties as specified in, or referenced in, KRS
39B.030, and in the orders or ordinances of the City Council, to include the
following:
   (A)   To represent the Mayor on all matters pertaining to the comprehensive
emergency management program and the disaster and emergency response of the
city;
   (B)   To be the executive head of, and chief administrative officer of, the
Office of Emergency Management and direct, control, supervise, and manage the
development, preparation, organization, administration, operation,
implementation, and maintenance of the comprehensive emergency management
program of the city, and to coordinate all disaster and emergency response of
the city;
   (C)   To develop, update, and maintain the city Emergency Operations Plan in
compliance with the provisions of KRS 39B.030(3);
   (D)   To establish, maintain, and coordinate or direct the response of the
city Disaster and Emergency Services organization in accordance with the
provisions of the city Emergency Operations Plan, the Kentucky Emergency
Operations Plan, and the provisions of KRS 39B.050;
   (E)   To notify the Mayor and the state Division of Emergency Management
immediately of the occurrence, or threatened or impending occurrence, of any
emergency, declared emergency, disaster, or catastrophic incident or situation,
and provide in such notice an assessment of possible or actual damages or
threats to life, health, safety, property, or the environment, and recommend
any emergency actions or orders which should be executed;
   (F)   To be the chief advisor to, and the primary on-scene representative
of, the Mayor in the event of any emergency, declared emergency, disaster, or
catastrophe within the city;
   (G)   To respond and have full access to the scenes of an emergency,
declared emergency, disaster, or catastrophe and immediately investigate,
analyze, or assess the nature, scope, or seriousness of all situations,
coordinate the establishment and operation of an incident command or management
system; execute the provisions of the city Emergency Operations Plan; activate
the city Emergency Operations Center or on-scene command post; convene
meetings, gather information, and conduct briefings; notify the Mayor and the
state Division of Emergency Management immediately of the nature, scope, or
seriousness of any emergency situation and provide information on all on-going
response actions being taken in association with the incident; provide any
assistance requested, as deemed necessary or appropriate; and take any actions
to fully expedite and coordinate the disaster and emergency response of all
local public or private agencies, departments, units, or individuals;
   (H)   To take or direct immediate actions to protect public safety at the
direction of the Mayor during any declared emergency or disaster;
   (I)   To act as an official representative of the state Division of
Emergency Management when specifically requested by the state director;
   (J)   To report directly to the Mayor and act in an official policy-making
capacity when carrying out all duties of the office of emergency management
director;
   (K)   To have full signatory authority, in accordance with the city
administrative code, for execution of all contracts, agreements, or other
official documents pertaining to the administration, organization, and
operation of the city Office of Emergency Management and the local
comprehensive emergency management program;
   (L)   To direct all paid or volunteer employees, staff assistants, or other
workers of the city Office of Emergency Management, and supervise any operating
units and personnel associated with it which are officially appointed and
affiliated with the city Disaster and Emergency Services organization pursuant
to the provisions of KRS 39B.070;
   (M)   To prepare and submit regular or scheduled program activity reports to
the area manager of the state Division of Emergency Management and the Mayor;
   (N)   To execute bond in the amount as determined by the Mayor, when
directed by the Mayor;
   (O)   To prepare and submit to the Mayor, on an annual basis by the first
day of March, a program and agency budget request for the city Office of
Emergency Management;
   (P)   To prepare and submit to the state Division of Emergency Management,
on an annual basis by the fifteenth of July, a fiscal year Program Paper and
budget request for the city Office of Emergency Management;
   (Q)   To enroll and be a registered member of the Kentucky Emergency
Management Association;
   (R)   To perform the duties of, or appoint with the approval of the Mayor,
the local Search and Rescue Coordinator pursuant to the provisions of KRS
39F.200.
   (S)   To perform all executive, administrative, organizational, or
operational duties and tasks required pursuant to KRS Chapters 39A to 39F,
Kentucky administrative regulations, the Kentucky Emergency Operations Plan, or
program guidance issued by the state Division of Emergency Management; and to
carry out all other emergency management-related duties as required by the
resolutions, orders, or ordinances of the city, the executive orders of the
Mayor, and the provisions of the city Emergency Operations Plan.
(Ord. 99-004, passed 5-11-99)
§ 36.28  VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this subchapter, or any lawful
orders, rules or regulations promulgated pursuant to it, upon conviction shall
be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. Violators of this subchapter may be issued
a citation by the Sheriff of Johnson County or by a duly authorized official.
(Ord. 99-004, passed 5-11-99)
CEMETERY BOARD
§ 36.40  ESTABLISHMENT.
   The city hereby creates and establishes the city Cemetery Board, for the
purpose of:
   (A)   Applying to the Department of Local Government for grants to restore
and maintain non-profit public cemeteries that do not receive perpetual care
funds pursuant to KRS 367.952;
   (B)   Obtaining assistance from other sources to maintain and restore non-
profit cemeteries in the city.
(Ord. 2003-012, passed 10-14-03)
§ 36.41  MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The city Cemetery Board shall have five members to be appointed by the
Mayor and approved by the City Council;
   (B)   Each member must have lived in the city for at least one year prior to
appointment;
   (C)   The term of each member shall be four years, except for initial
appointment terms. Initial appointment terms shall be as follows:  two members
appointed to a one year term; two members appointed to two year terms; and one
member appointed to a three year term.
   (D)   No more than three of the members shall represent the same political
party.
(Ord. 2003-012, passed 10-14-03)
§ 36.42  MEETINGS.
   The city Cemetery Board shall meet three times annually in space to be
provided by the city.
(Ord. 2003-012, passed 10-14-03)
POLICE ADVISORY COMMISSION
§ 36.50  CREATION.
   It shall be hereby created the Paintsville Police Department Advisory
Commission, hereinafter referred to as “the Commission.”
(Ord. 2003-001, passed 1-30-03)
§ 36.51  MEMBERS.
   The Commission shall consist of five commissioners to be appointed by the
Mayor and approved by Council. All commissioners shall serve two year terms.
The membership of the Commission shall consist of one representative of the
city school system. one representative of the county school system, one
representative of local law enforcement, excluding all active members of the
city Police Department and the county Sheriff's Office, and two at large
members. Thereafter, all vacancies in the Commission shall be filled by the
Mayor for two year terms except those occurring during a term which shall be
filled for the balance of the term. Each commissioner shall serve the appointed
term or until removed by the Mayor, for misfeasance, malfeasance in office.
(Ord. 2003-001, passed 1-30-03)
§ 36.52  ADOPTION OF RULES AND BYLAWS.
   The Commission shall adopt rules and bylaws for the time and place of its
meetings and the conduct thereof, and three commissioners shall constitute a
quorum at any meeting. The bylaws shall be reviewed and approved by the Mayor
and the Council. At its first meeting each year, the Commission shall organize
by the designation of one of the commissioners to act as a chairman and another
one to act as secretary. Any commissioner failing to attend four successive
monthly meetings without acceptable cause and approval by the Commission may
thereby automatically be removed from the office by the Commission.
(Ord. 2003-001, passed 1-30-03)
§ 36.53  DUTIES.
   The Commission shall review all policies and procedures of the city Police
Department and make recommendations to the Mayor regarding the management of
the city Police Department and shall serve in this capacity only. No decision
of the Commission will be binding upon the Mayor or the city Police Department.
(Ord. 2003-001, passed 1-30-03)
GOLF BOARD
§ 36.60  MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Paintsville Golf Board shall consist of seven members, including
one member to be designated by the Paul B. Hall Foundation. Three of the
members shall be members in good standing of the Paintsville Country Club. The
members shall be appointed by the Mayor and approved by the City Council.
   (B)   The members will be appointed for terms of four years. Initially the
members’ terms will be staggered in the following manner: three members will be
appointed for terms of four years, two members will be appointed for a term of
three years, and two members will be appointed for a term of two years. After
the initial terms expire, all further appointments shall be for a term of four
years.
(Ord. 2004-003, passed 5-11-04)
§ 36.61  DUTIES.
   (A)   The Paintsville Golf Board shall be responsible for the daily
functions of the Paintsville Country Club pursuant to a lease agreement entered
into between the City of Paintsville and the Paul B. Hall Foundation.
   (B)   The Paintsville Golf Board will set the fee schedule to be used for
the fiscal year. This fee schedule must be approved by the City Council.
   (C)   The Paintsville Golf Board shall prepare a proposed yearly budget of
the Paintsville Country Club to be presented to the Paintsville City Council 60
days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year.
   (D)   The Paintsville Golf Board shall recommend an individual to be hired
as General Manager for the Paintsville Country Club. The General Manager shall
be hired by the Mayor, with approval of City Council. The General Manager can
be dismissed by the City Council upon the recommendation of the Board.
(Ord. 2004-003, passed 5-11-04)
§ 36.62  GENERAL MANAGER.
   (A)   The General Manager shall be responsible for the maintenance,
operation, and upkeep of all Paintsville Country Club facilities.
   (B)   The General Manager shall make a monthly report to the City Council
concerning the income and operating expenses of the Paintsville Country Club
and recommend to the Council for approval all works of improvement or repair
involving the expenditure of $1,000 or more.
   (C)   The General Manager shall interview and recommend to the Mayor
individuals for all employment vacancies of the Paintsville Country Club.
(Ord. 2004-003, passed 5-11-04)
§ 36.63  EMPLOYEES.
   All employees of the Paintsville Country Club, including the General
Manager, are employees of the City of Paintsville, Kentucky, and are eligible
for all available benefits.
(Ord. 2004-003, passed 5-11-04)
§ 36.64  FINANCES.
   (A)   All bills, paychecks and other expenses incurred by the Paintsville
Country Club are to be paid by the Chief Financial Officer of the City of
Paintsville, Kentucky, who will monitor the inflows and outflows of finances
regarding the Paintsville Country Club.
   (B)   All purchases made by the Paintsville Country Club shall be made by
way of obtaining a purchase order from the City of Paintsville, Kentucky
purchasing agent.
(Ord. 2004-003, passed 5-11-04)
CHAPTER 37:  PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
37.01   Adoption of personnel policy
   
37.02   Grievance procedure
   
37.03   Affirmative action
   
37.04   Classification system
   
37.05   Wage and salary scale
   
37.06   Harassment policy
   
37.07   Family medical leave policy
   
37.08   Compensation plan
Position Descriptions
   
37.15   Establishment
   
37.16   Finance Officer/Budget Director
   
37.17   Police Chief
   
37.18   Assistant Police Chief
   
37.19   Fire Chief
   
37.20   Assistant Fire Chief
   
37.21   Sanitation Supervisor
   
37.22   Street Supervisor
   
37.23   Parking Lot Attendant
   
37.24   Recreation Director
   
37.25   City Clerk
   
37.26   Assistant City Clerk
   
37.27   City Treasurer
   
37.28   Police Officer
   
37.29   Firefighter
   
37.30   Auto and Diesel Mechanic
   
37.31   Police Recruit
   
37.32   Firefighter Recruit
   
37.33   Sanitation Worker
   
37.34   Public Service Worker I
   
37.35   Public Service Worker II
   
37.36   Recreation Activities Coordinator/Facilities Manager
   
37.37   Traffic and Parking Enforcement Officer
   
37.38   Custodian
   
37.39   Recreation Center Groundskeeper
   
37.40   911 Communications Dispatcher
   
37.41   Fire Captain
   
37.42   Fire Lieutenant
Cross-reference:
   Code of ethical conduct, see
Chapter 39
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.01  ADOPTION OF PERSONNEL POLICY.
   The city amends the ordinance adopted July 1980, as amended February 15,
1986, August 5, 1986, June 2, 1987, and June 12, 1990, and adopts as a
“Personnel Policy” the following personnel policies and procedures.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 6-12-90; Am. Ord. 91-005, passed 5-14-91)
§ 37.02  GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A grievance is an employee's expressed dissatisfaction with something
related to his job.  Employees and supervisor shall work together to resolve
any grievance which arises.  Any grievance or dispute which may arise from
employment with the city and which has not been resolved informally shall be
settled in the following manner:
      (1)   The employee shall present the grievance to his department head
within five working days of its occurrence.  The department head shall then
attempt to adjust the matter and shall respond to the employee in writing
within five working days.
      (2)   (a)   If the grievance remains unadjusted, the employee may then
request a hearing in writing before the Mayor within five working days after
the response of the department head. 
         (b)   The decision of the Mayor regarding the grievance shall be
rendered in writing within five working days of the hearing.
      (3)   If the grievance remains unresolved, a written grievance appeal may
then be presented by the employee to the City Council within five working days
of the Mayor's written response.
      (4)   The City Council shall respond in writing to the party presenting
the grievance appeal within five working days from the date of filing of the
grievance with the City Council, notifying the date, time and place the hearing
will be held.
      (5)   The City Council may conduct a hearing on all issues involved.  The
grievant may choose to be represented by legal counsel or other representatives
at the hearing.  The Mayor and City Council may also be represented by legal
counsel or other representatives.  Such legal counsel or representatives may
examine, cross-examine, question, or present evidence in behalf of the grievant
or Mayor and City Council.
      (6)   A copy of all previous written documents involved in the action
shall be attached to the grievance and made a part thereof.
      (7)   The City Council is responsible for payment of any expenses
incurred on behalf of the Mayor or Councilmember for legal counsel or
investigation and preparation of evidence or documents for the hearing.  The
grievant is responsible for the cost of legal counsel or other representation
in the preparation or presentation of the case in all or in any part of the
proceeding.
      (8)   The decision of the Council is final.
   (B)   Any employee who believes that he or she has been subjected to
discrimination as prohibited by Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973
and other federal and state laws, may personally or by a representative, file a
complaint with the Mayor of the city.  A person who has not personally been
subjected to discrimination may also file a complaint.
   (C)   When any employee believes he or she has been adversely affected by an
act or decision of the city, and that such act or decision was based on
handicapped status, he or she shall have the right to process a complaint or
grievance in accordance with the following procedure:
      (1)   Step One.  An aggrieved person must submit a written statement to
the Mayor setting forth the nature of the discrimination alleged and facts upon
which the allegation is based.
      (2)   Step Two. 
         (a)   The Mayor shall contact the complainant no later than 15 days
after receiving the written statement to establish an informal meeting with the
objective of resolving the matter informally.  However, in no case shall the
informal meeting be conducted sooner than five days nor more than 45 days after
receiving the written statement.
         (b)   There shall be prepared a written documentary of the discussions
at the informal meeting, which shall be preserved in the records of the City
Clerk.
      (3)   Step Three.  Within 15 days of the informal meeting, if no decision
has been made by the Mayor or the decision of the Mayor does not satisfy the
complainant, he or she may request a hearing with the City Council by
submitting a written request to the City Clerk.
      (4)   Step Four.
         (a)   In thus discussing the grievance, the complainant may designate
any person of his choice to appear with him and participate in the discussion. 
The City Council shall require the Mayor to participate in the discussion of
the grievance, when it is brought before the City Council.  The City Council
shall issue a written decision on the matter within 15 days, and the decision
shall be the final procedure for the complainant at the local level.
         (b)   There shall be prepared a written documentary of the discussion
at the hearing, which shall be preserved in the records of the city.
(Ord. 91-005, passed 5-14-91)
Cross-reference:
   Discrimination based on handicapped status, see
Ch. 37
§ 37.03  AFFIRMATIVE ACTION.
   (A)   The employment policy of the city is to recruit and hire employees
without discrimination because of race, creed, color, national origin, sex or
age except where sex or age is a bona fide occupational qualification.  The
city submits this plan to assure compliance with Executive Order 11246 and
11375 and to reaffirm its continued commitment to a program of equal
opportunity.  The city agrees to assert leadership within the community and the
communities with which the nonprofit organization consults to achieve full
employment and utilization of the capabilities and productivity of all citizens
without regard to race, creed, color, sex, compensatory with available labor
resources.
   (B)   The city will undertake a program of Affirmative Action to make known
that employment opportunities are available on the basis on individual merit
and will encourage all persons who seek employment with this company to strive
for advancement on this basis.
   (C)   In recruiting, the city, will actively seek a balance in the staff
hiring relating to women, minorities and other groups with an attempt to
provide qualified minority group applicants in occupations of a higher level. 
The city will provide on-the-job training programs geared toward increasing
minority groups and women representation in occupations at a higher level.  All
layoffs, terminations and downgrading will be done without regard to race,
creed, color, sex, or national origin.  The city will also assure that there is
no discrepancy in the compensation received by minority group employees or
women, with other employees performing equivalent duties and that opportunities
for performing overtime work or otherwise increased compensation are offered
without discrimination to all employees.
(Ord. 78-09, passed 9-5-78)
Cross-reference:
   Fair Housing, see
Ch. 96
§ 37.04  CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM.
   There is established a classification system for the employees of the city. 
The classification system shall consist of job titles and a numerical grade. 
The numerical grade shall correspond to the wage scales set out in §
37.05.  Employees who are hired by the city shall be assigned into a particular
job title and the corresponding grade.  The titles of jobs within the city and
the corresponding grades are as follows:
Class Title Grade
Class Title                                        Grade
Finance Officer                                    30
City Clerk                                         25
Treasurer                                          25
Emergency Management Director                      25
Code Enforcement Officer (Part-Time)               23
Assistant City Clerk and Treasurer                 20
Custodian                                          11
Parking Enforcement Officer                        12
Fire Chief                                         33
Assistant Fire Chief (Fire Services)               27
Fire Captain*                                      23
Assistant Fire Chief (Emergency Medical Services)* 27
Firefighter/Paramedic*                             26
Firefighter/EMT II*                                20
Firefighter/EMT I*                                 18
Firefighter (Recruit)*                             17
Parks and Recreation Director                      30
Building Manager                                   17
Recreation Foreman                                 17
Production (Video) Assistant                       15
Assistant Building Manager                         13
Maintenance Worker II                              14
Maintenance Worker I                               14
Police Chief                                       33
Administrative Secretary                           13
Assistant Police Chief                             27
Police Sergeant                                    24
Police Officer II                                  20
Police Officer I                                   18
Police Officer (Recruit)                           17
Telecommunications Supervisor                      23
Telecommunications Officer II                      18
Telecommunications Officer I                       16
Public Works Director                              30
Crew Leader                                        21
Mechanic                                           18
Maintenance Worker III                             17
Maintenance Worker II                              15
Maintenance Worker I                               14
Sanitation Truck Driver                            18
Sanitation Worker II                               15
Sanitation Worker I                                14
General Manager (Tourism)                          35
Business Manager                                   25
Site Director                                      22
Period Interpreter                                 15
Maintenance Worker II/Custodian                    15
Golf Course General Manager                        25
Maintenance Worker II                              15
Maintenance Worker I                               14
 
*Scheduled workweek differs from 40 hours; consider annual salaries only.
NOTE: Employees in part-time or temporary positions may be compensated at a
rate below the minimum salary for the assigned grade.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 6-12-90; Am. Ord. 91-005, passed 5-14-91; Am. Ord. 95-007,
passed 7-11-95; Am. Ord. 97-003, passed 8-12-97; Am. Ord. 98-002, passed 3-17-
98; Am. Ord. 98-003, passed 3-17-98; Am. Ord. 2007-004, passed 7-10-07)
§ 37.05  WAGE AND SALARY SCALE.
 
§ 37.05  WAGE AND SALARY SCALE.
   (A)   The city adopts the following wage and salary scale for employees of
the city.  The numerical grade contained therein are defined as the grades
established under the classification system, contained in §
37.05. The steps contained in the wage and salary scale are based upon years of
service of an employee of the city and the job title to which the employee is
assigned, except that supervisors who are promoted from within the department
shall receive credit for all time that they have served with the city.  All
raises employees receive based upon years of service shall take effect on July
1 of the appropriate year of service, regardless of the time during the year
that the employee achieves the actual year of service.  No employee shall
receive a decrease in pay under this system of classification and wage and
salary scale than the employee received under the system formally in effect. 
   (B)   As stated herein, the letter “H” in the wage and salary scale means
“hourly,” the letter “W” means “weekly,” the letters “BW” means “bi-weekly,”
the letter “M” means “monthly,” and the letter “A” means “annually.”  All
employees shall be paid on an hourly basis, except the following employees who
shall be paid on a monthly basis:  City Clerk, Assistant City Clerk, City
Treasurer, Police Chief, Fire Chief, Sanitation Supervisor, Street Supervisor,
Recreation Activities Coordinator.  The wage and salary scale is adopted as
follows:
Grade Minimum Maximum
Grade     Minimum Maximum
11    A $13,624 $23,842
      6.55    11.46
12    A 14,305  25,034
      6.88    12.04
13    A 15,020  26,286
      7.22    12.64
14    A 15,771  27,600
      7.58    13.27
15    A 16,560  28,980
      7.96    13.93
16    A 17,388  30,429
      8.36    14.63
17    A 18,257  31,951
      8.78    15.36
18    A 19,170  33,548
      9.22    16.13
19    A 20,129  35,225
      9.68    16.94
20    A 21,135  36,987
      10.16   17.78
21    A 22,192  38,836
      10.67   18.67
22    A 23,302  40,778
      11.20   19.60
23    A 24,467  42,817
      11.76   20.59
24    A 25,690  44,958
      12.35   21.61
25    A 26,975  47,206
      12.97   22.69
26    A 28,323  49,566
      13.62   23.83
27    A 29,739  52,044
      14.30   25.02
28    A 31,226  54,646
      15.01   26.27
29    A 32,788  57,379
      15.76   27.59
30    A 34,427  60.248
      16.55   28.97
31    A 36,149  63,260
      17.38   30.41
32    A 37,956  66,423
      18.25   31.93
33    A 39,854  69,744
      19.16   33.53
34    A 41,846  73,321
      20.12   35.21
35  A    43,939  76,893
      21.12   36.97
36    A 46,136  80,737
      22.18   38.82
37    A 48,442  84,774
      23.29   40.76
38    A 50,865  89,013
      24.45   42.79
39    A 53,408  93,464
      25.68   44.93
40    A 56,078  98,137
      26.96   47.18
41    A 58,882  103,044
      28.31   49.54
42    A 61,826  108,196
      29.72   52.02
43    A 64,918  113,606
      31.21   54.62
44    A 68,163  119,286
      32.77   57.35
45    A 71,572  125,250
      34.41   60.22
46    A 75,150  131,513
      36.13   63.23
47    A 78,908  130,088
      37.94   66.39
48    A 82,853  144,993
      39.83   69.71
49    A 86,996  152,243
      41.82   73.19
50    A 91,346  159,855
      43.92   76.85
 
NOTE:   (1)   5% progressive difference between grades.
   (2)   75% from minimum to maximum with each grade.
   (3)   Annual salary based on 40-hour workweek; consider annual salaries only
if workweek differs from 40 hours.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 6-12-90; Am. Ord. 91-010, passed 8-13-91; Am. Ord. 93-006,
passed 8-10-93; Am. Ord. 93-009, passed 8-10-93; Am. Ord. 2007-004, passed 7-
10-07; Am. Ord. 2009-003, passed 5-12-09; Am. Ord. 2010-001, passed 5-26-10;
Am. Ord. 2011-003, passed 4-12-11; Am. Ord. 2012-001, passed 3-26-12; Am. Ord.
2013-001, passed 4-9-13; Am. Ord. 2015-004, passed 4-13-15)
§ 37.06  HARASSMENT POLICY.
   (A)   The Mayor and the City Council recognize the need to develop and
implement a harassment policy for the city.
   (B)   The city strongly disapproves of and will not tolerate harassment of
its employees on any basis. Harassment is verbal and physical conduct that
denigrates or shows hostility or aversion toward any individual because of his
or her race, color, religion, gender, national origin, age or disability, or
that of his or her relatives or friends or associates, and creates an
intimidating or hostile or offensive work environment and reasonably
interfering with an individual’s work performance or otherwise adversely
affects an individual's employment opportunities. Harassment will not be
tolerated by the City of Paintsville. Such harassment is a violation of Title
VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and of the Guidelines of the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission.  These Guidelines specifically clarify what
constitutes unlawful sexual harassment as unwelcome sexual advancements,
request for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical contact of a sexual
nature constitute sexual harassment when:
      (1)   Submission to such contact is made either explicitly as a term or
condition of an individual’s employment;
      (2)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
      (3)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering
with an individual’s work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile, or
offensive work environment.
   (C)   Examples in conduct which may create a hostile environment include but
are not limited to, lewd or sexually suggestive comments; off-color language or
jokes of a sexual nature; slurs and other verbal, graphic or physical conduct
relating to an individual's sex; any display of sexually explicit pictures,
greeting cards, articles, books, magazines, photos or cartoons. Normal,
courteous, mutually respectful, pleasant non-coercive interactions between
individuals that are acceptable to both parties are not considered to be sexual
harassment.
   (D)   The city encourages its employees to submit, in writing, any instance
of harassment, sexual or otherwise, to provide the city with a clear
understanding of the situation. Any instances of harassment of any form should
be immediately reported to your supervisor. If your supervisor is involved, the
behavior should be reported directly to the Mayor. If the Mayor is involved,
the behavior should be reported to a member of the City Council.
   (E)   All complaints will be promptly investigated in a manner designed to
protect the privacy of both parties. To the extent possible, the grievance
procedure outlined in the Personnel Policy Manual will be followed.  While some
individuals must be advised of the situation in order to conduct an
investigation, the city will endeavor to keep the information it gathers
confidential and any parties who are interviewed pursuant to such an
investigation are expected to do the same.
   (F)   The city will take appropriate corrective action, including
disciplinary measures up to and including discharge, when justified, to remedy
any violation of this policy.
   (G)   No employee will be retaliated against for bringing a complaint or for
cooperating in the investigation of a complaint under this policy.  No
documentation of the complaint shall be maintained in the personnel file of the
complaining individual.
(Ord. 95-008, passed 9-12-95)
§ 37.07  FAMILY MEDICAL LEAVE POLICY.
   (A)   That the family medical leave policy of the city is hereby adopted by
the city. A copy of said policy adopted by reference and made a part hereof the
same as if set forth at length herein.
   (B)   The family medical leave policy of the city shall become a part of the
personnel policy of the city.
(Ord. 2001-009, passed 9-18-01)
§ 37.08  COMPENSATION PLAN.
   (A)   Pay plan. A pay plan shall prescribe for each classification a minimum
and maximum rate of pay, and employees occupying positions assigned to each
classification shall be compensated at a rate no less than the minimum amount
and no more than the maximum amount of the pay grade to which the
classification is assigned.
   (B)   Workweek; pay periods.
      (1)   The official workweek for each department shall begin and end at a
time recommended by the department and approved by the Mayor. The official
workweek may be changed at any time, but not to avoid overtime requirements.
      (2)   The city utilizes electronic clocks for accounting for the times
worked for its employees. All employees sign the time sheet to attest to its
validity each pay period. The completed sheet, properly signed, must be
submitted to the City Treasurer for a check to be issued.
      (3)   Employee checks shall be distributed on the fifteenth day and the
last day of the month. In the event either of the days occurs on a Saturday,
Sunday or holiday, checks shall be distributed on the workday preceding the
non-working day.
   (C)   Hours of work; recording of time worked.
      (1)   (a)   Each employee shall work according to a schedule of hours
determined by the employee’s Department Director and approved by the Mayor.
         (b)   Employees absent from the workstation during regularly assigned
working hours without approved leave shall not be compensated for the period of
absence.
         (c)   All employees shall be required to keep track of time worked by
using time clocks located in the proximity of each department. Each employee
shall punch his or her own time card; anyone punching the time card for another
employee shall be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal
from employment with the city.
      (2)   Each Department Director shall be responsible for preparing and
signing departmental time sheets, which are turned in weekly. Time sheets shall
include hours worked by each employee and account for hours not worked.
   (D)   Overtime.
      (1)   In order to determine whether an employee will receive overtime pay
for hours worked in excess of 40 hours per week, each classification shall be
declared “exempt” or “non-exempt” in accordance with the provisions of federal
and state wage and hour laws; the designation shall be placed on each position
description. Employees in exempt classifications shall not receive overtime
pay; employees in non-exempt classifications shall receive overtime pay at the
rate of one and one-half times the regular hourly wages for actual hours worked
in excess of 40 hours in any week.
      (2)   Employees who are called to work on a holiday shall be compensation
as follows:
         (a)   If the employee is called back to work on a holiday during the
hours in which the employee was initially scheduled to work, the employee shall
receive straight time for the hours worked when called back in addition to
holiday pay.
         (b)   If the employee is called back to work on a holiday at a time
other than the hours the employee is normally scheduled to work, the employee
shall be compensated at time and one-half  in addition to holiday pay after 40
hours worked during the workweek.
      (3)   Time off with pay (holidays, vacation leave, sick leave, jury duty,
funeral leave, for example) will not be considered as hours worked for overtime
pay purposes.
      (4)   The Department Director shall be held accountable for overtime, and
shall approve all overtime in advance whenever possible; overtime shall be kept
at the minimum consistent with maintenance of essential services and the city’s
financial resources.
   (E)   On-call time. As a condition of employment, employees may be required
to be on-call on a regularly scheduled basis. While on-call, employees are
required to report within a reasonable time period if requested during a period
of emergency.
   (F)   Periodic review.
      (1)   The Human Resources Director shall ensure that the following are
completed as needed:
         (a)   Compare the salary rates, compensation policies, and the
policies and procedures of the city with those of other employers in the labor
market area;
         (b)   Analyze fluctuations in the cost of living;
         (c)   Examine the salary range for each classification to ascertain
whether minimum and maximum salaries should be raised or lowered for a
particular classification or classifications during the succeeding 12 months;
and
         (d)   Upon the basis of the comparison, analysis and examination,
recommend any necessary changes to the city.
      (2)   All changes must be made by ordinance of the City Council.
(Ord. 2007-004, passed 7-10-07)
POSITION DESCRIPTIONS
§ 37.15  ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is established position descriptions for positions with the city,
which follow in §§
37.15 et seq.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 6-12-90)
§ 37.16  FINANCE OFFICER/BUDGET DIRECTOR.
   (A)   Class title. Finance Officer/Budget Director.
   (B)   Characteristics of class. Under general direction of the Mayor,
performs highly responsible administrative work in directing and supervising
the financial affairs of the city; works closely with the City Treasurer; and
does related work.
   (C)   Examples of duties. Plans, develops and supervises the financial
program of the city consistent with established and accepted municipal
accounting principles and practices and in sufficient detail to produce
adequate cost, financial and statistical data for management purposes and to
meet statutory requirements. Together with the Treasurer, keeps records of
income distributed by sources, disbursements applicable to each department. 
Prepares annual budget; keeps it updated monthly by posting line item entries. 
Invests surplus funds.  Reconciles bank statements.  Prepares various reports
including salary and tax withholdings.  Monitors payroll costs, overtime and
vacation days. Makes recommendations and serves as a resource person in all
areas of city finances, budget items, purchases and personnel.
   (D)   Minimum qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience. Graduation from an accredited college or
university with major work in accounting, business or public administration,
supplemented by five years of progressively responsible experience in public
finance administration.
      (2)   Special knowledge, skills and abilities.  Extensive knowledge of
general laws and administrative policies governing municipal financial
practices and procedures. Extensive knowledge of modern billing and accounting
systems.  Extensive knowledge of general bookkeeping and accounting practices
for modern governmental accounting systems.  Considerable knowledge of current
yield rate(s) so that city funds may be invested so as to yield the greatest
return. Ability to make arithmetical computations accurately and quickly. 
Ability to communicate effectively, orally and in writing. Ability to establish
and maintain effective working relationships with officials, employees and the
public. Supervisory and administrative abilities.  Sound professional judgment.
Resourcefulness. Orderliness. Thoroughness. Integrity.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 6-12-90)
§ 37.17  POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   Class title.  Police Chief.
   (B)   Characteristics of class.  Under general direction, plans, organizes,
directs, and coordinates the activities of the Police Department in the
enforcement of laws and ordinances, the prevention of crime and the protection
of life and property; and does related work as required.
   (C)   Examples of duties.  Plans, directs and exercises general supervision
over the work of the entire department.  Plans work schedules. Formulates and
enforces rules and regulations, work methods and procedures.  Makes or reviews
all reports of officers. Enforces disciplinary measures when necessary. 
Ascertains that recruits and regular officers receive adequate training in
modern police methods and procedures, first aid and related procedures. Directs
the preparation and maintenance of police records and files.  Directs the
investigation of major criminal offenses. Cooperates with state and federal
officers in the apprehension of wanted persons.  Sees that periodic and special
reports are prepared for various agencies and groups such as National Safety
Council, Federal Bureau of Investigation, local governments and other
agencies.  Prepares budget estimates and controls the expenditures of all
department funds, keeping expenditures within the approved departmental
budget.  Drafts correspondence requisitions supplies and recommends the
purchase of necessary equipment.  Meets with and answers questions for the
public, meets with various groups.  Performs public relations functions for the
department. Attends all Council meetings.  Supervises 911 Emergency Telephone
Dispatch System and 911 Communications Dispatchers.
   (D)   Minimum qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience.  Graduation from an accredited high school
supplemented by five years of progressively responsible experience as a police
officer, including supervisory experience. Training in first aid procedures.
      (2)   Special necessary requirements.
         (a)   Successful completion of required training.
         (b)   Possession of a valid driver's license as issued by the
Commonwealth of Kentucky.
         (c)   Ability to pass a physical examination.
   (E)   Special knowledge, skills and abilities.  Thorough knowledge of modern
police administration and of police methods.  Thorough knowledge of scientific
methods of crime detection, criminal identification and radio communication.
Thorough knowledge of controlling laws and ordinances.  Demonstrated ability to
lead and direct the activities of police officers.  Skill in the use of
firearms.  Administrative and analytical abilities. Ability to establish and
maintain effective work relationships with officials, employees and the general
public.  Resourcefulness.  Sound judgment.  Dependability. Firmness.  Tact. 
Sound judgment.  Integrity.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 6-12-90; Am. Ord. 91-005, passed 5-14-91)
§ 37.18  ASSISTANT POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   Class title.  Assistant Police Chief.
   (B)   Characteristics of class. Under general direction, assists the Chief
of Police in planning, organizing, directing and coordinating activities of the
Police Department; serves in the absence of the Chief; and does related work as
required.
   (C)   Examples of duties. Supervises the maintenance and proper use of all
police department equipment and personnel, including but not limited to
maintenance, mileage, evidence, special details, employee evaluation, training,
supervision. Prepares work schedules. Patrols when needed. Assists the Chief in
assuring the proper operation of the Department in accordance with existing
policies, rules and regulations, operating procedures as well as in the
enforcement of federal and state laws and city ordinances. Assists the Chief in
compiling reports and statistics and in all other matters as the Chief
requires.
   (D)   Minimum qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience. Graduation from an accredited high school
or equivalent (GED) supplemented by four years of progressively responsible
experience in law enforcement, one year of which must have been in a
supervisory capacity.
      (2)   Special necessary requirements.
         (a)   Successful completion of required training.
         (b)   Ability to pass a physical examination.
         (c)   Valid Kentucky driver's license.
      (3)   Special knowledge, skills and abilities.  Thorough knowledge of
federal, state and local laws and ordinances.  Thorough knowledge of the
principles and practices of modern police administration, organization and
operation as applied to field patrol activity, traffic-control and safety, and
criminal investigation. Skill in the use of firearms. Thorough knowledge of the
use of all police records and their application to the solution of police
problems.  Administrative, analytical and supervisory abilities.  Ability to
express ideas clearly and concisely, orally and in writing.  Ability to
establish and maintain effective working relationships with employees, other
officials and the general public. Firmness. Tact. Sound judgment. Integrity.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 6-12-90)
§ 37.19  FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   Class title. Fire Chief.
   (B)   Characteristics of class. Under general direction, plans, organizes,
directs, and coordinates all firefighting, fire prevention, emergency rescue
and code enforcement activities for the city; and does related work as
required.
   (C)   Examples of duties. Plans operations. Assigns personnel and equipment.
Evaluates needs and makes recommendations for the purchase of apparatus and
equipment. Submits information relating to the activities for the preparation
of the annual budget. Maintains necessary departmental records. Directs
training programs.  Directs maintenance of fire buildings, grounds and
equipment. Oversees discipline and personnel. Assumes responsibility for the
maintenance of clear, concise permanent records. Responds to major alarms and
personally directs firefighting operations. Attends all City Council and other
work related meetings.
   (D)   Minimum qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience.  Graduation from an accredited high school
or equivalent (GED) supplemented by five years of progressively responsible
experience in firefighting, fire prevention, emergency rescue and code
enforcement work, including supervisory experience.
      (2)   Special necessary requirements. 
         (a)   Successful completion of required training.
         (b)   Possession of a valid driver's license issued by the
Commonwealth of Kentucky.
         (c)   Certification as an Emergency Medical Technician.
         (d)   Ability to pass a physical examination.
      (3)   Special knowledge, skills and abilities. Extensive knowledge of the
principles, practices, methods, and equipment employed in modern firefighting,
fire prevention, emergency rescue and code enforcement. Extensive knowledge of
fire hazards, toxic materials and explosions. Ability to plan, assign,
coordinate and supervise the activities performed by employees in varied
firefighting activities. Ability to evaluate personnel, to maintain the
discipline and respect of subordinates and to command personnel effectively.
Ability to initiate, plan, and carry out programs in administration, in-service
training, and prevention. Ability to speak and write effectively.  Ability to
establish and maintain effective working relationships with employees,
officials and the general public. Initiative.  Dependability.  Firmness. 
Resourcefulness.  Sound judgment. Integrity.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 6-12-90)
§ 37.20  ASSISTANT FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   Class title. Assistant Fire Chief.
   (B)   Characteristics of class. Under general supervision, assists the Fire
Chief in planning, organizing, directing and coordinating the firefighting,
fire prevention emergency rescue and code enforcement activities of the city;
and does related work as required.
   (C)   Examples of duties. Assumes the responsibility and duties of the Fire
Chief in his or her absence. Assumes responsibility for the maintenance of all
equipment. Assists the Fire Chief in the daily operation of the Department.
Responds to all fires and supervises operations in the Chief's absence. Makes
regular inspections of personnel, quarters, alarm boxes, firehouses, and
similar items for efficiency and disciplinary purposes.  Assists in maintaining
discipline and training standards.  Instructs firefighting personnel in the
proper care and operation of apparatus and equipment. Assists in the
preparation of purchase specifications. Requisitions supplies and equipment
needed.  Maintains records and makes reports orally and in writing. 
Participates in firefighter training activities. Assists in developing  long-
range personnel and equipment plans for the department.
   (D)   Minimum qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience.  Graduation from an accredited high school
or equivalent (GED) supplemented by four years of progressively responsible
experience in firefighting and fire prevention work, including one year of
supervisory experience.
      (2)   Special necessary requirements.
         (a)   Successful completion of required training.
         (b)   Possession of a valid driver's license as issued by the
Commonwealth of Kentucky.
         (c)   Certification as Emergency Medical Technician.
         (d)   Ability to pass a physical examination.
      (2)   Special knowledge, skills and abilities.  Thorough knowledge of
modern firefighting practices, principles, and procedures in firefighting and
prevention, emergency rescue and code enforcement. Thorough knowledge of
departmental policies, rules and regulations, and of the geography of the
city.  Thorough knowledge of first aid principles and skill in their
application.  Thorough knowledge of fire alarm systems. Ability to plan, assign
and supervise the work of subordinate skilled personnel.  Ability to analyze
situations quickly and to adopt an effective course of action with regard to
surrounding hazards and circumstances. Instructional ability. Ability to
establish and maintain effective work relationships with other employees,
officials and the public.  Initiative. Resourcefulness. Dependability.
Firmness. Sound judgment. Integrity.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 6-12-90)
§ 37.21  SANITATION SUPERVISOR.
   (A)   Class title. Sanitation Supervisor.
   (B)   Characteristics of class. Under general supervision, oversees the
operations of workers, trucks and packer; lays out refuse collection routes and
schedules; and does related work as required.
   (C)   Examples of duties. Schedules and supervises sanitation workers in the
collection of refuse. Makes sure premises are left clean. Ensures that
collection schedule is maintained.  Oversees proper maintenance of packers. 
Answers inquiries and complaints and attends to their disposition.  Arranges
for extra garbage hauls. Checks dumpsters to ensure they are in proper working
condition.
   (D)   Minimum qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience. Graduation from high school or its
equivalent (GED) or vocational school supplemented by two years of responsible
experience in sanitation.
      (2)   Special necessary requirements.
         (a)   Possession of a valid driver's license as issued by the
Commonwealth of Kentucky.
         (b)   Ability to pass a physical examination.
      (3)   Special knowledge, skills and abilities.  Ability to understand
hazards in the operation of heavy equipment. Ability to work for long periods
of time during inclement weather.  Ability to understand and follow oral and
written instructions. Appreciation of safety precautions and preventive
maintenance. Ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships
with other employees, officials and the general public.  Supervisory ability. 
Basic mechanical understanding and ability.  Sound judgment.  Dependability.
Resourcefulness. Initiative. Integrity.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 6-12-90)
§ 37.22  STREET SUPERVISOR.
   (A)   Class title.  Street Supervisor.
   (B)   Characteristics of class. Under general supervision, assigns,
instructs and supervises work crews for the Street Department, serving as crew
foreman/leader and performing work as needed; and does related work as
required.
   (C)   Examples of duties.  Assigns personnel to work crews.  Gives oral
instructions. Supervises work in progress on a continuous basis, seeing that
the job is completed.  Lays tile, concrete blocks, black top.  Patches
blacktop. Cleans storm sewers. Sweeps streets. Hauls rock, tree limbs, trash. 
Repairs curbs.  Orders supplies for construction and maintenance.  As needed,
paints curbs, parking spaces; runs equipment; makes and posts street signs.
Supervises collection and disposal of trash. Orders and keeps records of
petroleum products used by departments.
   (D)   Minimum qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience.  Graduation from an accredited high school
or equivalent (GED) supplemented by three years of progressively responsible
experience in light or heavy equipment operation.
      (2)   Special necessary requirements.
         (a)   Ability to pass physical examination.
         (b)   Possession of a valid driver's license issued by the
Commonwealth of Kentucky.
         (c)   Ability to work under all types of weather conditions.
         (d)   May be subject to emergency callback.
      (3)   Special knowledge, skills and abilities.  Working knowledge of
construction and maintenance requirements and techniques. Working knowledge of
departmental rules and regulations.  Ability to establish and maintain
effective working relationships with employees, officials and the general
public.  Supervisory ability. Communications abilities. Dependability. Tact.
Firmness. Initiative. Resourcefulness. Integrity.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 6-12-90)
§ 37.23  PARKING LOT ATTENDANT.
   (A)   Class title. Parking Lot Attendant.
   (B)   Characteristics of class.  Under general supervision, oversees the
operations of the municipal parking lot; collects and accounts for parking
fees; and does related work as required.
   (C)   Examples of duties.  Opens parking lot each morning. Turns on ticket
dispenser and gates. Checks and resets time clocks. Refills ticket dispenser as
needed. Clears parking lot of litter each morning. Collects, receipts and posts
daily and monthly fees due from parking in journal. Fills out and makes bank
deposits each morning. Services and maintains ticket dispenser and gates by
lubrication and adjusting all working parts. Insures all cars are parked
properly. Insures safety and security of pedestrians, users and parked
vehicles. Accounts for parking tickets validated by local merchants. Keeps and
makes reports of parking lot operations.
   (D)   Minimum qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience.  Graduation from an accredited high school
or equitation (GED) supplemented by two years of responsible clerical or
accounting experience.
      (2)   Special necessary requirement.  Possession of a valid driver's
license issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
      (3)   Special knowledge, skills and abilities. Working knowledge of basic
accounting techniques and practices. Ability to make mathematical computations
quickly and thoroughly. Ability to establish and maintain effective working
relationships with other employees, officials and the public. Patience.
Courtesy. Firmness. Tact. Resourcefulness. Accuracy. Dependability. Integrity.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 6-12-90)
§ 37.24  RECREATION DIRECTOR.
   (A)   Class title. Recreation Director.
   (B)   Characteristics of class. Under general supervision, directs the
City's Recreation Department, which includes the Community Center, pool, park
and playground; and does related work as required.
   (C)   Examples of duties. Prepares a comprehensive recreation program
designed to benefit all citizens of the community. Schedules, supervises,
coordinates and evaluates all departmental employees. Supervises the
maintenance of recreational facilities, arranging for necessary repairs,
purchase contracts, control and issuance of equipment. Prepares and applies for
grants for program. Prepares reports for City Council and Recreation and
Tourism Commission. Prepares monthly employee time sheets. Oversees all
scheduled events; collects and deposits event fees with City Clerk/Treasurer. 
Enforces rules and keeps order in Center. Maintains contacts with civic groups
and other organizations interested in sports, crafts and other recreational.
activities.
   (D)   Minimum qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience. Graduation from an accredited college or
university with courses in recreation or physical education, supplemented by
two years of progressively responsible recreation experience; or high school
graduation supplemented by six years of progressively responsible experience in
recreation.
      (2)   Special necessary requirement.  Possession of a valid driver's
license.
      (3)   Special knowledge, skills and abilities.  Considerable knowledge of
the objectives and philosophy of public recreation.  Considerable knowledge of
recreation materials and equipment.  Supervisory and analytical abilities.
Ability to communicate effectively, orally and in writing. Ability to establish
and maintain effective working relationships with employees, officials and the
public. Thoroughness. Tact. Resourcefulness. Initiative. Integrity.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 6-12-90)
§ 37.25  CITY CLERK.
   (A)   Class title. City Clerk.
   (B)   Characteristics of class.  Under general direction of the Mayor,
prepares, maintains, and attests to official records of action taken by the
Council; serves as custodian of the seal of the city and keeps official books
and records; and does related work as required.
   (C)   Examples of duties.  Assists in the preparation of the agenda for and
attends regular and special meetings of the City Council. Records proceedings;
types and distributes minutes. Collects taxes, fines and any other revenue due
the city. Makes deposits; balances cash drawer.  Does all typing for the Mayor
and Finance Officer/Budget Director.  Attends Planning and Zoning Commission
meetings; takes, transcribes and distributes minutes.  Keeps records of
occupational and delinquent taxes, insurance premiums.  Issues building and
electrical permits; assists the Building Inspector as needed. Processes initial
paper work on hospital and life insurance for all new city employees. Performs
typing, as needed, for Fire, Police, Community Center.  Answers phone; waits on
customers. Receives and processes mail daily; issues city permits and licenses.
Maintains files for city correspondence, permits, licenses and other business.
   (D)   Minimum qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience.  Graduation from an accredited high school
or equivalent (GED) supplemented by courses in bookkeeping or accounting and
three years of progressively responsible experience in work involving
bookkeeping and frequent contact with the public.
      (2)   Special knowledge, skills and abilities.  Considerable knowledge of
modern accounting procedures, and of the basic principles of municipal finance
and bookkeeping. Considerable knowledge of the legal requirements relating to
the keeping and preservation of Council minutes and records.  Knowledge of
procedures for Council meetings. Considerable knowledge of rules, regulations
or ordinances governing a municipal treasury. Considerable knowledge of state
legislation as it affects local taxes, tax collections and special assessments.
Considerable knowledge of modern office practices, procedures, and equipment.
Ability to establish and maintain effective relationships with employees, city
officials, and the public. Ability to maintain important records efficiently
and accurately and to prepare clear and concise reports. Supervisory ability.
Typing ability.  Ability to communicate effectively, orally and in writing. 
Sound judgment. Dependability. Resourcefulness. Thoroughness. Initiative.
Patience. Integrity.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 6-12-90)
§ 37.26  ASSISTANT CITY CLERK.
   (A)   Class title. Assistant City Clerk.
   (B)   Characteristics of class.  Under general supervision, mails out and
assists in the collection of taxes and license fees; types; and does related
work as required.
   (C)   Examples of duties.  Answers phone; relays messages to all
departments. Does all mailing of occupational and property taxes, business
licenses. Assists in the collection of taxes and license fees. Balances daily
sheet and makes deposits on all accounts. Sends notices on all overdue parking
tickets; deposits money in proper account. Collects all insurance premium
taxes. Processes daily mail. Mails trash hauling bills.  Issues building and
electrical permits.  Receives inquiries and complaints and attends to their
disposition.
   (D)   Minimum qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience.  Graduation from an accredited high school
or equivalent (GED) supplemented by business courses and one year of
progressively responsible experience in clerical or related fields.
      (2)   Special knowledge, skills and abilities.  Working knowledge of
modern office methods, techniques and equipment, ability to make arithmetic
computations quickly and accurately.  Typing ability.  Ability to establish and
maintain effective working relationships with other employees, officials and
the general public.  Ability to keep confidential information.  Alertness. 
Accuracy. Neatness. Courtesy. Tact. Firmness. Integrity.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 6-12-90)
§ 37.27  CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   Class title. City Treasurer.
   (B)   Characteristics of class. Under general supervision of the Mayor and
City Finance Officer/Budget Director, performs administrative fiscal work
relating to the receipt, deposit, custody and disbursement of city funds; and
does related work as required.
   (C)   Examples of duties. Issues purchase orders, compares them for accounts
payable. Issues payroll checks semi-monthly on computer for all departments.
Prepares payroll reports such as FICA, federal/state tax withholdings,
retirement, quarterly unemployment insurance, annual W-2, 1099 forms. Pays
police and fire incentive pay monthly and hourly overtime incentive pay.
Monitors overtime and payroll costs.  Prepares all police and fire incentive
reports.  Keeps records for all city employees for health and life insurance,
retirement, W-4's. Maintains personnel files. Verifies income and employment of
city employees. Prepares workers' compensation claims, files. Maintains records
of scheduled vehicles under the city's liability insurance/policy. Transfers
funds to other accounts as needed. Attends all regular and special Council
meetings and assists City Clerk in these as needed.  Assists Finance Officer/
Budget Director with computerized annual budgets and in the investment of
surplus funds.  Keeps record of income and disbursements for each department. 
Prepares monthly budget update by posting line item entries. Prepares reports
for Mayor and Council.
   (D)   Minimum qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience.  Graduation from an accredited high school
supplemented by courses in accounting or bookkeeping and at least three years
of progressively responsible experience in public finance administration.
      (2)   Special knowledge, skills and abilities.  Thorough knowledge of
municipal accounting principles and practices. Thorough knowledge of state laws
and city ordinances governing City Treasurer functions. Thorough knowledge of
modern bookkeeping and collection practices and techniques. Thorough knowledge
of modern clerical and office records, procedures routines and equipment.
Ability to make mathematical computations quickly and accurately.  Ability to
communicate effectively, orally and in writing. Ability to understand and carry
out complex oral and written directions.  Ability to establish and maintain
effective working relationships with other officials, employees and the public.
Sound judgment. Accuracy. Thoroughness. Integrity.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 6-12-90)
§ 37.28  POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   Class title. Police Officer.
   (B)   Characteristics of class.  Under general supervision, performs general
duty police work in the protection of life and property through the enforcement
of laws and ordinances; and does related work as required.
   (C)   Examples of duties.  Patrols a designated area of the city on foot, or
in a radio-equipped car to preserve law and order, to prevent and discover the
commission of crime, to direct traffic at school crossings and street
intersections, and to enforce motor vehicle operation and parking regulations.
Answers calls and complaints involving automobile accidents and robberies, and
other misdemeanors and felonies. At the scene of a crime conducts preliminary
investigations, gathers evidence, obtains witnesses and makes arrests.  Takes
prisoners to jail. Testifies as a witness in court. Serves court papers such as
warrants, summons and subpoenas. Provides escort services, home and business
security checks. Conducts public awareness programs on drugs, child abuse and
identification. Arrests, processes and refers juveniles. Provides assistance to
motorists.  At the scene of automobile accidents, interviews witnesses and
gathers information and prepares reports.  Interviews persons with complaints
and inquiries and attends to their proper disposition. Performs breathalyzer
tests. May provide first aid.
   (D)   Minimum qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience.  Graduation from an accredited high school
or equivalent (GED).
      (2)   Special necessary requirements.
         (a)   Successful completion of required training.
         (b)   Possession of a valid driver's license issued by the
Commonwealth of Kentucky.
         (c)   Ability to pass a physical examination.
      (3)   Special knowledge, skills and abilities.  Ability to learn modern
approved principles, practices, techniques and procedures of police work.  Some
knowledge of state laws and city ordinances. Some knowledge of the geography of
the city and the location of important buildings.  Ability to communicate
effectively, orally and in writing. Ability to understand and carry out oral
and written instructions. Skill in the use of firearms. Ability to deal
courteously but firmly with the general public. Ability to react quickly and
calmly in emergency conditions.  Physical strength and agility.  Ability to
establish and maintain effective working relationships with other employees,
officials and the public. Dependability. Resourcefulness. Accuracy. Sound
judgment. Integrity.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 6-12-90)
§ 37.29  FIREFIGHTER.
   (A)   Class title.  Firefighter.
   (B)   Characteristics of class.  Under close supervision, performs
firefighting, fire prevention, and operating duties; serves as dispatcher for
Police and Fire Departments; and does related work as required.
   (C)   Examples of duties.  Responds to fire alarms, lays out and connects
hoses. Holds nozzles and directs water streams.  Raises and climbs ladders,
uses chemical extinguishers, bars, hooks, lines, and other equipment.  Removes
persons from danger; holds life nets; administers first aid to injured persons.
Performs salvage operations such as throwing salvage covers, sweeping water and
removing debris.  Participates in fire drills and attends classes in
firefighting, first aid, and related subjects. Performs general maintenance
work in the upkeep of Fire Department property; cleans and washes walls,
windows, and floors; makes minor repairs; washes, hangs, and dries hose;
washes, cleans and polishes apparatus.
   (D)   Minimum qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience.  Graduation from an accredited high school
or equivalent (GED).
      (2)   Special necessary requirements.
         (a)   Successful completion of required training.
         (b)   Possession of a valid driver's license as issued by the
Commonwealth of Kentucky.
         (c)   Ability to pass a physical examination.
      (3)   Special knowledge, skills and abilities.  Some knowledge of the
street system and physical layout of the city. Ability to learn a variety of
firefighting duties and methods, including the operating of firefighting
apparatus within a reasonable working test period. Physical strength and
agility and freedom from serious physical defects as indicated by a physical
examination and the ability to perform arduous tasks under adverse conditions. 
Ability to perform the mechanical work involved in operating and maintaining
firefighting apparatus, equipment, and tools.  Ability to understand and follow
oral and written instructions. Ability to establish and maintain effective work
relationships with other employees, officials and the public.  Alertness. 
Sound judgment. Resourcefulness. Integrity.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 6-12-90)
§ 37.30  AUTO AND DIESEL MECHANIC.
   (A)   Class title.  Auto and Diesel Mechanic.
   (B)   Characteristics of class.  Under general supervision, performs
mechanical work in the maintenance and repair of auto and diesel equipment; and
does related work as required.
   (C)   Examples of duties.  Performs general overhaul and repair work of all
city owned automotive equipment, including police, sanitation, streets, Gas and
Water Department automobiles, trucks, dozers and other specialized equipment
with gasoline or diesel engines. Repairs transmissions, differential hydraulic
systems, air and hydraulic brakes, air conditioning, electrical systems and
other mechanical problems.  Performs welding tasks.  Maintains records of work
performed and keeps parts in stock.
   (D)   Minimum qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience.  Graduation from an accredited high school
or its equivalent (GED) or vocational school supplemented by one year of
progressively responsible mechanic or mechanic's helper experience.
      (2)   Special necessary requirements.
         (a)   Possession of a valid driver's license as issued by the
Commonwealth of Kentucky.
         (b)   Ability to pass a physical examination.
      (3)   Special knowledge, skills and abilities.  Considerable knowledge of
the standard practices of equipment used in the automotive trade. Considerable
knowledge of occupational hazards and safety precautions of the trade. 
Considerable knowledge of the principles of operation of gasoline and diesel
engines, and of the mechanical repair methods applicable to heavy trucks and
equipment. Skill in the use and care of hand and machine tools employed in
automotive repair and adjustment work.  Ability to understand and carry out
oral and written instructions. Accuracy. Alertness. Thoroughness. Sound
judgment. Integrity.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 6-12-90)
§ 37.31  POLICE RECRUIT.
   (A)   Class title.  Police Recruit.
   (B)   Characteristics of class.  Under close supervision and as a recruit,
performs general duty police work in the enforcement of federal, state, and
local laws as a recruit; and does related work as required.
   (C)   Examples of duties.  This position performs the duties of a regular,
operating level police officer on an apprenticeship basis.
   (D)   Minimum qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience.  Graduation from an accredited high school
or equivalent (GED).
      (2)   Special necessary requirements.
         (a)   Successfully completion of required training.
         (b)   Valid Kentucky driver's license.
         (c)   Ability to pass a physical examination.
      (3)   Special knowledge, skills and abilities. Ability to acquire
knowledge of police methods, practices, and procedures with ability to apply
this knowledge to specific situations.  Working knowledge of the geography of
the area or ability to acquire the knowledge rapidly. Ability to understand and
carry out oral and written instructions. Ability to remember names, faces, and
details of incidents. Ability to analyze situations and to adopt quick,
effective, and reasonable courses of action, with regard to surrounding hazards
and circumstance Ability to prepare clear and comprehensive oral and written
reports. Ability to develop skill in the use of firearms.  Physical strength
and ability.  Ability to deal courteously but firmly with the general public. 
Dependability.  Accuracy.  Sound judgment.  Integrity.  A Police Recruit will
advance to the classification of Police Office upon completion of basic academy
training for Police Officers.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 6-12-90)
§ 37.32  FIREFIGHTER RECRUIT.
   (A)   Class title.  Firefighter Recruit.
   (B)   Characteristics of class.  Under close supervision and, as a recruit
performs firefighting, fire prevention and dispatcher duties; and does related
work as required.
   (C)   Examples of duties.  This position performs the duties of a regular,
operating level firefighter on an apprenticeship basis.
   (D)   Minimum qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience.  Graduation from an accredited high school
or equivalent (GED).
      (2)   Special necessary requirements. 
         (a)   Successful completion of required training.
         (b)   Possession of a valid Kentucky driver's license.
         (c)   Ability to pass a physical examination.
         (d)   Ability to become certified as an emergency Medical Technician.
      (3)   Special knowledge, skills and abilities.  Ability to learn the
street system and physical layout of the city.  Ability to learn a variety of
firefighting duties and methods, including the operation of firefighting
apparatus, within a reasonable working test period.  Ability to learn ambulance
attendant duties, methods and techniques.  Physical strength and agility. 
Ability to perform under adverse conditions. Ability to perform the mechanical
work involved in operating and maintaining firefighting apparatus, equipment
and tasks.  Ability to understand and follow oral and written instructions. 
Initiative. Resourcefulness  Dependability.  Firmness.  Tact.  Integrity. A
firefighter recruit will advance to the classification of firefighter upon
qualification as a Kentucky Certified Firefighter.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 6-12-90)
§ 37.33  SANITATION WORKER.
   (A)   Class title.  Sanitation Worker.
   (B)   Characteristics of class. Under immediate supervision, performs
routine refuse collection; and does related work as required.
   (C)   Examples of duties. Collects refuse at the curb and deposits it in
collection trucks. Participates in city-wide clean-up campaigns by collecting
above normal amounts of yard refuse and discarded household articles. May
operate a packer on occasion.  Cleans and assists in routine maintenance and
cleaning of collection vehicles.
   (D)   Minimum qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience. Ability to read-and write.
      (2)   Special necessary requirements. 
         (a)   Ability to pass a physical examination.
         (b)   Possession of a valid driver's license issued by the
Commonwealth of Kentucky.
      (3)   Special knowledge, skills and abilities.  Ability to perform heavy
manual labor for extended periods, often under adverse weather conditions. 
Ability to understand and follow specific oral and written instructions.
Ability to maintain effective working relationships with the general public,
employees, and officials. Dependability. Initiative. Integrity.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 6-12-90)
§ 37.34  PUBLIC SERVICE WORKER I.
   (A)   Class title.  Public Service Worker I.
   (B)   Characteristics of class.
      (1)   Under close supervision, performs manual and semi-skilled work of
routine and moderate difficulty in a variety of public service activities; and
does related work as required.
      (2)   Any one position may not include all of the duties listed nor do
the listed examples include all tasks which may be performed.
   (C)   Examples of duties.  Loads/unloads trucks of debris, dirt, supplies,
construction materials and equipment. Operates light truck. With a shovel, digs
and scatters dirt, rocks and gravel in road construction, parks and sewer
lines. Lays sewer pipe; repairs and cleans existing sanitary sewer lines,
manholes, creek beds. Maintains grounds, including mowing grass, trimming
shrubs, pruning trees with small power equipment and hand tools. Picks up paper
and debris; rakes leaves; performs minor repairs on equipment. Patches holes;
rakes asphalt; uses pick and shovel in preparing potholes for repair. Routinely
uses gasoline-powered lawn mower. Cleans facilities, including mopping and
waxing floors. Seasonally shovels snow and spreads salt on roadways and
sidewalks. Assists in repairing and installing sewer pipes and lines, septic
tanks and water lines. Assists in pumping overflow from basements, and in
locating and raising manholes. Occasionally operates riding mower, uses
jackhammer, chain saw and other small power equipment. Paints offices, speed
bumps, signs, hydrants.
   (D)   Minimum qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience.  Tenth grade education or vocational
school, supplemented by one year of responsible related experience.
      (2)   Special necessary requirements.
         (a)   Valid Kentucky driver's license.
         (b)   May be subject to emergency callback.
         (c)   Ability to pass physical examination.
      (3)   Special knowledge, skills and abilities.  Working knowledge of the
proper use of hand and power tools. Ability to understand and follow specific
oral and written instructions.  Ability to maintain cooperative working
relationships with employees, official and the public.  Physical strength and
ability to perform heavy manual labor under varying weather conditions. 
Resourcefulness. Dependability. Alertness. Integrity.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 6-12-90)
§ 37.35  PUBLIC SERVICE WORKER II.
   (A)   Class title.  Public Service Worker II.
   (B)   Characteristics of class.
      (1)   Under general supervision, performs semi-skilled to skilled work of
moderate difficulty in a variety of public service activities; and does related
work as required.
      (2)   Any one position may not include all of the duties listed nor do
the listed examples include all work tasks which may be performed.
   (C)   Examples of duties.  Supervises/trains Public Service Workers I in
routine tasks. May serve as lead worker on a blacktop patching crew, sewer line
repair and/or building and grounds maintenance. Assists in making minor and
more skilled repairs to equipment. Installs and repairs sewer pipes, posts,
septic tanks, fences, water lines, signs, pavement markings. Digs ditches,
trenches; loads dirt, rock and equipment onto trucks. Assembles concrete forms;
pours and spreads concrete. Seasonally shovels snow and spreads salt onto
roadways and sidewalks. Prunes trees, shrubs, vines. Operates jackhammer,
concrete saw, pipe bender and threader, paint sprayer, air compressor, pumps
and other hand and power tools.  Places and retrieves traffic cones and
barricades.  Performs traffic counts. Paints curbs. Cleans storm sewer catch
basins. May perform welding. Periodically operates large tractors, pickup
trucks and other related equipment. Notifies homeowners of need to raise
manholes; smoke tests manholes; cleans debris from manholes; repairs damage to
lawns and property. May occasionally operate backhoe, roller, grader, paver,
chain saw or related equipment, especially medium to heavy equipment. Performs
and maintains various types of simple records and activity reports.
   (D)   Minimum qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience.  Graduation from an accredited high school
or equivalent (GED) or vocational school supplemented by two years of
responsible related experience.
      (2)   Special necessary requirements. 
         (a)   Valid Kentucky driver's license.
         (b)   May be subject to emergency callback.
         (c)   Ability to pass physical examination.
      (3)   Special knowledge, skills and abilities.  Considerable knowledge of
the proper use of hand and power tools. Ability to understand and follow
specific oral and written instructions.  Ability to establish and maintain
cooperative working relationships with employees, officials, and the public.
Physical strength and ability to perform strenuous manual labor under varying
weather conditions. Dependability. Alertness. Accuracy. Integrity.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 6-12-90)
§ 37.36  RECREATION ACTIVITIES COORDINATOR/FACILITIES MANAGER.
   (A)   Class title. Recreation Activities Coordinator/Facilities Manager.
   (B)   Characteristics of class. Under general supervision, organizes and
coordinates Recreation Center schedules, activities and maintenance; and does
related work as required. Serves as supervisor in the absence of the Director.
   (C)   Examples of duties. Answers phone. Takes messages. Makes bookings.
Schedules and arranges meetings, insuring that facilities and amenities are in
place. Cleans up, rearranges and takes down meeting set ups. Insures building
safety and security. Attends to swimming pool maintenance daily during the
season. Performs building maintenance, such as dusting furniture, sweeping and
cleaning carpet, mopping and buffing floors, cleaning bathrooms, washing dishes
and windows. Supervises employees in the absence of the Director.
   (D)   Minimum qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience.  Graduation from an accredited high school
or equivalent (GED) supplemented by three years of progressively responsible
experience in recreation administration.
      (2)   Special necessary requirements. 
         (a)   Possession of a valid driver's license as issued by the
Commonwealth of Kentucky.
         (b)   Willingness to work an irregular work schedule.
         (c)   Ability to pass a physical examination.
      (3)   Special knowledge, skills and abilities.  Ability to promote and
maintain high morale and enthusiasm.  Ability to establish and maintain
effective work relationships with other employees, officials and the general
public. Supervisory ability.  Ability to communicate effectively, orally and in
writing.  Tact. Initiative. Orderliness. Resourcefulness. Integrity.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 6-12-90)
§ 37.37  TRAFFIC AND PARKING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   Class title.  Traffic and Parking Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Characteristics of class.  Under general supervision, performs traffic
and parking control work; and does related work as required.
   (C)   Examples of duties. Walks designated beat in the city or patrols
designated area.  Issues tickets for such standing violations as cars
improperly parked in loading or restricted zones.  Issues warning tickets for
cars facing the wrong direction. Gives information and directions, particularly
to out-of-town visitors. Occasionally does general and routine clerical work
such as preparing and filing violation and collection reports. Directs traffic
during school hours and for the city's businesses.  Assists officers with
parades, escorts and similar traffic assignments as needed. Relieves parking
lot attendant when needed.
   (D)   Minimum qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience.  Graduation from an accredited high school
or equivalent (GED) or vocational school supplemented by one year of
responsible clerical or related experience.
      (2)   Special necessary requirements. 
         (a)   Possession of a valid driver's license as issued by the
Commonwealth of Kentucky.
         (b)   Ability to pass a physical examination.
      (3)   Special knowledge, skills and abilities.  Working knowledge of the
general layout of the city, of street names, principal intersections, and meter
locations. Working knowledge of ordinances relating to meter parking and
standing violations.  Ability to prepare routine reports of daily work. Basic
mechanical ability. Ability to establish and maintain effective work
relationships with other employees, officials and the public.  Physical
strength and agility sufficient to work outdoors in inclement weather.
Dependability. Neatness. Tact. Firmness. Resourcefulness. Accuracy. Integrity.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 6-12-90)
§ 37.38  CUSTODIAN.
   (A)   Class title.  Custodian.
   (B)   Characteristics of class.  Under general supervision, performs
cleaning, custodial and routine maintenance work; distributes mail; and does
related work as required.
   (C)   Examples of duties.  Vacuums, sweeps, mops, scrubs and polishes
floors. Washes walls, windows and woodwork.  Cleans restrooms and replenishes
supplies. Dusts, polishes, arranges and moves furniture and equipment. Checks
and replaces burned out light bulbs. Sets out refuse containers for pick up.
May run errands. May mow grass, cut weeds.
   (D)   Minimum qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience.  Completion of the eighth grade with
ability to read and write.
      (2)   Special necessary requirements.
         (a)   Possession of a valid driver's license as issued by the
Commonwealth of Kentucky.
         (b)   Ability to pass a physical examination.
      (3)   Special knowledge, skills and abilities.  Working knowledge of
building cleaning practices, supplies and equipment. Ability to understand and
carry out oral and written instructions. Ability to perform routine operations
involved in custodial duties without immediate supervision.  Ability to
establish and maintain effective work relationships with employees, officials
and the public. Dependability. Thoroughness. Initiative. Tact. Resourcefulness.
Integrity.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 6-12-90)
§ 37.39  RECREATION CENTER GROUNDSKEEPER.
   (A)   Class title.  Recreation Center Groundskeeper.
   (B)   Characteristics of class.  Under general supervision of the Recreation
Director, cleans and maintains Recreation Center facilities and grounds; and
does related work as required.
   (C)   Examples of duties.  Sweeps, mops, and cleans center facilities,
cleaning walls, bathrooms, floors, kitchen utensils, garbage cans. Buffs,
strips and waxes floors as needed. Cleans windows.  Sets up tables and chairs
for meetings. Cleans handball courts. Picks up glass and garbage. Keeps little
league field clean and picked up. Keeps grass and weeds cut and trimmed around
the center; sidewalks and fences. Operates all walking and riding lawn mowers.
Cleans and picks up papers and glass around the swimming pool area. In the
spring, puts up swings; insures lawn equipment is in working order.
   (D)   Minimum qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience.  Graduation from an accredited high school
or equivalent (GED) or vocational school supplemented by one year of
progressively responsible related experience.
      (2)   Special necessary requirements. 
         (a)   Valid Kentucky driver's license.
         (b)   Ability to pass physical examination.
      (3)   Special knowledge, skills and abilities.  Considerable knowledge of
the proper use of hand and power tools. Ability to understand and follow
specific oral and written instructions.  Ability to establish and maintain
effective working relationships with employees, officials and the public.
Physical strength and ability to perform manual labor under varying weather
conditions. Dependability. Alertness. Accuracy. Integrity.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 6-12-90)
§ 37.40  911 COMMUNICATIONS DISPATCHER.
   (A)   Class title.  911 Communications Dispatchers.
   (B)   Characteristics of class.  Under general direction of the
Communications Specialist, receives, transmits and relays information
concerning public safety and law enforcement activities to and from and between
city, county, state and other public safety emergency agencies; and does
related work as required.
   (C)   Examples of duties.  Receives all incoming communications from
citizens walking into Department and from telephone, radio, computer and alarm
systems.  Relays all complaints and information received to the appropriate
personnel or agencies; dispatches police units, fire vehicles, rescue squads
and other emergency vehicles.  Records and maintains accurate communications
cards to log all units and agencies dispatched and calls received.  Monitors
various radio frequencies, home and business alarm systems, incoming telephone
systems, NCIC-LINK computer system, and other agency computers.  Activates
emergency warning system when advised. Monitors and operates all alternate
communications systems, and performs routine scheduled maintenance on all
equipment.
   (D)   Minimum qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience.  Graduation from an accredited high school
or its equivalent (GED).
      (2)   Special necessary requirements.
         (a)   Must successfully complete a six-month probationary period.
         (b)   Must successfully complete required telecommunication basic
training.
         (c)   Must successfully complete required LINK-NCIC Certification
Course. Both schools must be completed within six months.
         (d)   Must successfully complete required in-service training in
telecommunications, and NCIC-LINK Certification yearly.
         (e)   Must possess a valid Kentucky driver's license.
      (3)   Special knowledge, skills and abilities.  Working knowledge of
Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rules and regulations governing
operations of radio/telephone receiving and transmitting equipment.  Working
knowledge of basic radio transmission procedures.  Working knowledge of police
organization and operations.  Working knowledge of the geography of the city
and county.  Working knowledge of law enforcement computer systems. Ability to
act quickly, calmly, and correctly in any emergency situation. Ability to
follow oral and written instructions.  Ability to speak with clarity.  Ability
to prepare and maintain accurate records and filing systems.  Ability to deal
tactfully and courteously with the public. Ability to establish and maintain
effective working relationships with other public safety organizations,
agencies, city officers, county officers, employees and the general public. 
Tact.  Firmness.  Accuracy, Resourcefulness.  Sound judgment.  Integrity.
(Ord. 91-005, passed 5-14-91)
§ 37.41  FIRE CAPTAIN.
   (A)   Class title. Fire Captain.
   (B)   Characteristics of class. Under direction, performs supervisory and
skilled work in directing the activities of the fire company in firefighting,
rescue, emergency medical services and dealing with hazardous materials;
reports directly to the Assistant Fire Chief on a daily basis or Incident
Commander as needed or assigned.
   (C)   Examples of duties. Responds to fire alarms. Helps determine what
equipment and apparatus will be used. Makes decisions as to the best method of
extinguishing fires and other emergency incidents and directing firefighting
activities until relieved of command by the Assistant Fire Chief or Fire Chief.
Supervises, at the appropriate station, the keeping of fire apparatus and
equipment at a state of readiness and inspecting apparatus and equipment at the
station to determine need for maintenance and repair work. Supervises, at the
appropriate station, the cleaning and minor maintenance of quarters, equipment,
and apparatus. Inspects personnel and helps maintain discipline at the assigned
station. Assists in enforcing standard operating procedures, encouraging safe
work practices of all personnel at the station and on fire ground. Assists in
enforcing all city policies and rules and regulations. Works regular assigned
shift as a duty firefighter. Performs miscellaneous duties as needed or
directed. Assists in developing personnel and equipment plans for the
department. Attends required officers meetings as directed.
   (D)   Minimum qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience.  Formal instruction in firefighting
methods and techniques, and progressively responsible experience in
firefighting, rescue, emergency, medical service and hazardous materials.
      (2)   Special necessary requirements.
         (a)   Certification as a Kentucky Emergency Medical Technician.
         (b)   Certification as a Kentucky Career Firefighter,  certified in
hazardous materials training at the minimum of the technician's level.
      (3)   Special knowledge, skills and abilities. Ability to analyze
situations correctly and quickly and to adopt effective courses of action with
regard to surrounding hazards and circumstances. Ability to maintain the
discipline and respect of subordinates in a fair and effective manner. Ability
to establish and maintain effective working relations with subordinates.
Completion of a minimum of eight years of service as a full time firefighter.
Same physical abilities as necessary for the function of a firefighter, as
found in §
37.29(D)(3).
   (E)   Compensation. Compensation for the rank of Fire Captain shall be in
accordance with Grade 23 of the wage and salary scale as found in §
37.05, with an additional annual stipend of $800 to be paid on a pro rata basis
throughout the year with the Fire Captain regular compensation pursuant to
Grade 23.
(Ord. 98-002, passed 3-17-98)
§ 37.42  FIRE LIEUTENANT.
   (A)   Class title. Fire Lieutenant.
   (B)   Characteristics of class. Under direction, performs supervisory and
skilled work in directing the activities of the fire company in firefighting,
rescue, emergency medical services and dealing with hazardous materials;
reports directly to the Fire Chief on a daily basis or Incident Commander as
needed or assigned, and serves as Departmental Safety Officer.
   (C)   Examples of duties. Responds to fire alarms. Helps determine what
equipment and apparatus will be used. Makes decisions as to the best method of
extinguishing fires and other emergency incidents and directing firefighting
activities until relieved of command by the Assistant Fire Chief or Fire Chief.
Supervises, at the appropriate station, the keeping of fire apparatus and
equipment at a state of readiness and inspecting apparatus and equipment at the
station to determine need for maintenance and repair work. Assists in enforcing
standard operating procedures, encouraging safe work practices of all personnel
at the station and on fire ground. Assists in enforcing all city policies and
rules and regulations. Works regular assigned shift as a duty firefighter.
Performs miscellaneous duties as needed or directed. Attends required officers
meetings as directed.
   (D)   Minimum qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience. Formal instruction in firefighting methods
and techniques, and progressively responsible experience in firefighting,
rescue, emergency, medical service and hazardous materials.
      (2)   Special necessary requirements.
         (a)   Certification as a Kentucky Emergency Medical Technician.
         (b)   Certification as a Kentucky Career Firefighter, certified in
hazardous materials training at the minimum of the operations level.
      (3)   Special knowledge, skills and abilities. Ability to analyze
situations correctly and quickly and to adopt effective courses of action with
regard to surrounding hazards and circumstances. Ability to maintain the
discipline and respect of subordinates in a fair and effective manner. Ability
to establish and maintain effective working relations with subordinates.
Completion of a minimum of eight years of service as a full time Firefighter.
Same physical abilities as necessary for the function of a Firefighter as found
in §
37.29(D)(3).
   (E)   Compensation. Compensation for the rank of Fire Lieutenant shall be in
accordance with Grade 23 of the wage and salary scale as found in §
37.05, with an additional annual stipend of $600 to be paid on a pro rata basis
throughout the year with the Fire Lieutenant regular compensation pursuant to
Grade 23.
(Ord. 98-003, passed 3-17-98)
CHAPTER 38:  POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
Section
Police Department
   
38.01   Disposition of fees to which police are entitled
   
38.02   Formal establishment of Paintsville Police Department
Volunteer Fire Department
   
38.10   Wages
Fire Department's Service to Self-Insured Entities
   
38.15   Purpose
   
38.16   Charge per call for assisting self-insured entities
   
38.17   Voluntary payment on yearly basis
Ambulance Service
   
38.25   Definitions
   
38.26   Establishment; title
   
38.27   Area to be serviced
   
38.28   Services
   
38.29   Compliance
   
38.30   Expansion
General Provisions
   
38.40   Use of and interference with radio frequencies prohibited
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 38.01  DISPOSITION OF FEES TO WHICH POLICE ARE ENTITLED.
   The fees or monies to which the Chief of Police and members of the police
force of the city are entitled by virtue of any applicable law shall be paid
directly into the City Treasury of the city.
(Ord. 78-04, passed 3-7-78)
Cross-reference:
   Assistant Police Chief, see §
37.18
   Police Chief, see §
37.17
   Police Officer, see §
37.28
   Police Recruit, see §
37.31
§ 38.02  FORMAL ESTABLISHMENT OF PAINTSVILLE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes a police department for the City of
Paintsville, which shall be operated by the city under the supervision of the
Mayor.
   (B)   This police department shall be called the Paintsville Police
Department.
   (C)   The Police Department shall perform all general duty police work in
the protection of life and property through the enforcement of laws and
ordinances.
(Ord. 99-016, passed 12-14-99)
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 38.10  WAGES.
   The payments to volunteer firemen for the city shall be set from time to
time to time by ordinance of the City Council.
(Ord. 71-01, passed 1-5-71)
FIRE DEPARTMENT'S SERVICE TO SELF-INSURED ENTITIES
§ 38.15  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to:
   (A)   Require a charge for the use of the firefighting equipment of the city
by all entities declaring themselves to be self-insurers, and thereby pay no
license tax as provided in KRS 91A.080; and
   (B)   Assure that the city is adequately compensated for the services of the
Fire Department to those entitles who are not required, because of their status
as self-insurers, to pay the license tax of which the city in the beneficiary
pursuant to KRS 91A.080.
(Ord. 80-08, passed 4-1-80)
§ 38.16  CHARGE PER CALL FOR ASSISTING SELF-INSURED ENTITIES.
   The city shall require as a minimum payment $500 for each call required to
assist any entity which is declared itself to be self-insured.  That charge may
exceed the minimum whenever the actual expenses exceed $500.
(Ord. 80-08, passed 4-1-80)
§ 38.17  VOLUNTARY PAYMENT ON YEARLY BASIS.
   In lieu of payment of a charge on each call the City Fire Department makes
for the self-insured entity, the entity may make a strictly voluntarily payment
to the city for use only by the Fire Department on a yearly basis of $1,000.
(Ord. 80-08, passed 4-1-80)
Cross-reference:
   Fire Chief, see §
37.19
   Assistant Fire Chief, see §
37.20
   Firefighter, see §
37.29
   Firefighter recruit, see §
37.32
   Fire Captain, see §
37.41
   Fire Lieutenant, see §
37.42
AMBULANCE SERVICE
§ 38.25  DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases when used in this chapter have a meaning as
set forth herein:
   ADVANCED LIFE SUPPORT SERVICES.  A ground ambulance provider which:
      (1)   Utilizes certified and licensed emergency medical professionals to
provide prehospital medical care such as: basic life support services; advanced
airway management such as endotracheal intubation; defibrillation; and
administration of intravenous fluids and pharmaceuticals under the authority of
a physician medical direction; and
      (2)   Meets the requirements established in 902 KAR 14:080, Sections 1
through 10 and is licensed by the cabinet to provide health care and
transportation on an emergency and non-emergency basis to persons who: are
sick, injured, or otherwise incapacitated; and may require immediate
stabilization and continued medical response and intervention during transit or
upon arrival at the patient's destination to safeguard the patient's life or
physical well being.
   BASIC LIFE SUPPORT SERVICES.  A ground ambulance provider which utilizes at
least two certified or licensed emergency medical personnel to provide pre-
hospital medical care such as:  1)  First aid; 2)  pulmonary resuscitation;  3)
airway management;  4) cervical spine control;  5)  breathing assistance;  6)
hemorrhage control; and  7) basic patient movement procedures; and meets the
requirements established in Sections 1 through 7 and Section 8, if applicable,
of 902 KAR 14.080 and is licensed by the Cabinet of Human Resources to provide
health care and transportation on an emergency basis to persons who are sick,
injured or otherwise incapacitated; and may require immediate stabilization and
continued medical response and intervention in transit or upon arrival at the
patient's destination to safeguard the patient's life or physical well being.
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL AMBULANCE.  A vehicle (or vehicles) which is specifically
designed, constructed or has been modified or equipped with the intent of using
the same, or maintaining or operating the same for the health, care and
transportation of persons who are sick, injured, or otherwise incapacitated in
emergency situations.
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN (EMT).  A qualified individual currently
certified by the Kentucky Department of Human Resources as an emergency medical
technician, emergency medical technician-ambulance operator, emergency medical
technician-instructor, or emergency medical technician instructor-trainer.
   TRANSPORTATION AMBULANCE.  A vehicle which provides health care
transportation, on a routinely scheduled basis, for patients with stable
conditions or for individuals whose impaired health conditions require special
patient care, supervision or handling, but does not indicate a need for
emergency medical treatment during transit.
(Ord. 96-005, passed 8-13-96; Am. Ord. 99-008, passed 6-15-99)
§ 38.26  ESTABLISHMENT; TITLE.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes a basic life support ambulance service
which shall be operated by the City Division of Fire and Emergency Services.
   (B)   This basic life support ambulance service shall be called the City
Ambulance Service (hereinafter “Ambulance Service”).
   (C)   The city hereby establishes an advanced life support ambulance
service.
   (D)   This advanced life support ambulance service shall be called the City
Ambulance Service.
(Ord. 96-005, passed 8-13-96; Am. Ord. 99-008, passed 6-15-99)
§ 38.27  AREA TO BE SERVICED.
   The territory to be serviced by the Ambulance Service shall be the city of
Paintsville and Johnson County, Kentucky.
(Ord. 96-005, passed 8-13-96; Am. Ord. 99-010, passed 7-13-99)
§ 38.28  SERVICES.
   The ambulance services established herein will provide both emergency
medical ambulance service and transportation ambulance service to the city. The
Ambulance Service will provide care and transportation to both Paul B. Hall
Medical Center and Highlands Regional Medical Center.
(Ord. 96-005, passed 8-13-96)
§ 38.29  COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The City Fire Chief shall be the administrator responsible for
assuring compliance with Kentucky Administrative Regulations during the daily
operation of the service and the administrator shall designate an individual
who shall serve in this capacity if necessary in the absence of the
administrator.
   (B)   The Ambulance Service shall comply with local, state and federal
statutes and regulations. More specifically, the Ambulance Service shall be
operated pursuant to and adhere to the regulations as set forth in 902 KAR 14:
070 entitled "Non-Emergency Health Transportation"; 902 KAR 14:070 entitled
“License Procedures and Fee Schedules” and 902 KAR 14:080 entitled “Basic and
Advance Life Support, Ground Ambulance Providers.”
(Ord. 96-005, passed 8-13-96)
§ 38.30  EXPANSION.
   Any expansion in the Ambulance Service as established herein shall be made
only by amendment to this subchapter.
(Ord. 96-005, passed 8-13-96)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 38.40  USE OF AND INTERFERENCE WITH RADIO FREQUENCIES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or business
association to use, interfere with, or install a program in any radio frequency
licensed, assigned to or authorized for the use of any city department by the
Federal Communications Commission, without written approval by the city.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of this section, the regulations
issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who knowingly induces
another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned for not more than one year, or both. Each day's continued violation
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 99-003, passed 5-11-99)
CHAPTER 39:  CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
39.01   Title
   
39.02   Findings
   
39.03   Purpose and authority
   
39.04   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
39.10   Conflicts of interest in general
   
39.11   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
39.12   Receipt of gifts
   
39.13   Use of city property, equipment, and personnel
   
39.14   Representation of interests before city government
   
39.15   Misuse of confidential information
   
39.16   Post-employment restriction
   
39.17   Honoraria
Financial Disclosure
   
39.30   Who must file
   
39.31   When to file statements; amended statements
   
39.32   Form of statement of financial interests
   
39.33   Control and maintenance of the statements of financial interests
   
39.34   Contents of the financial interests statement
   
39.35   Noncompliance with filing requirement
Nepotism
   
39.50   Nepotism prohibited
Enforcement
   
39.60   Board of ethics created
   
39.61   Alternate members
   
39.62   Facilities and staff
   
39.63   Power and duties of the Board of Ethics
   
39.64   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
39.65   Notice of hearings
   
39.66   Hearing procedure
   
39.67   Appeals
   
39.68   Limitation of actions
   
39.69   Advisory opinions
   
39.70   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
 
   
39.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Personnel policies, see
Chapter 37
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 39.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Paintsville
Code of Ethics.”
(Ord. 94-007, passed 9-13-94)
§ 39.02  FINDINGS.
   The City Council finds and declares that:
   (A)   Public office and employment with the city are public trusts;
   (B)   The vitality and stability of the government of this city depends upon
the public's confidence in the integrity of its elected and appointed officers
and employees. Whenever the public perceives a conflict between the private
interest and public duties of a city officer or employee, that confidence is
imperiled; and
   (C)   The government of this city has a duty to provide its citizens with
standards by which they may determine whether public duties are being
faithfully performed, and to make its officers and employees aware of the
standards which the citizenry rightfully expects them to comply with while
conducting their public duties.
(Ord. 94-007, passed 9-13-94)
§ 39.03  PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officer
and employees of the city shall be clearly established, uniform in their
application, and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees of the
city with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest
which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS 65.003, as enacted by the 1994 Kentucky General Assembly.
   (C)   This subchapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.003.
(Ord. 94-007, passed 9-13-94)
§ 39.04  DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning:
   BOARD OF ETHICS,  The city of Paintsville Board of Ethics which is created
and vested by this subchapter with the responsibility of enforcing the
requirements of the city's code of ethics.
   BUSINESS.  Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation, or any legal entity through which business is conducted for
profit.
   CANDIDATE.  Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city
office. An individual is a candidate when the individual files a notification
and declaration for nomination for office with the county clerk or secretary of
state, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration
of intent to be a write-in candidate with the county clerk or secretary of
state.
   CITY.  The city of Paintsville, Kentucky.
   CITY AGENCY.  Any board, commission, authority, nonstock corporation, or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by this city.
   EMPLOYEE.  Any person, whether full-time or part- time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city. The term EMPLOYEE
shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of their employees.
   FAMILY MEMBER.  A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent or grandchild.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER.  A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in the
officer's or employee's household, or a person claimed by the officer or
employee, or the officer's or employee's spouse, as a dependent for tax
purposes.
   OFFICER.  Any person, whether full-time or part- time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor.
      (2)   A City Council member.
      (3)   The City Clerk.
      (4)   Any person who occupies a nonelected office created under KRS
83A.080.
      (5)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency by the city.
(Ord. 94-007, passed 9-13-94)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 39.10  CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN GENERAL.
   Every officer and employee of the city and every city agency shall comply
with the following standards of conduct:
   (A)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of any officer
or employee, shall have an interest in a business or engage in any business,
transaction, or activity, which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of the officer's or employee's public duties.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or
advantages for himself or herself or others.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or refrain from taking
any discretionary action, or agree to take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action, or induce or attempt to induce any other officer or
employee to take or refrain from taking any discretionary action, on any matter
before the city in order to obtain a financial benefit for any of the
following:
      (1)   The officer or employee;
      (2)   A family member;
      (3)   An outside employer;
      (4)   Any business in which the officer or employee, or any family member
has a financial interest;
      (5)   Any business with which the officer or employee or any family
member is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or
professional relationship.
   (D)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
in this section if, by reason of the officer's or employee's participation,
vote, decision, action or inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the officer
or employee, a family member, an outside employer or a business as defined in
subsection (C)(4) and (C)(5) of this section, as a member of any business,
occupation, profession, or other group, to any greater extent that any gain
could reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member of the business,
occupation, profession, or other group.
   (E)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected
by his or her participation, vote, decision or other action taken within the
scope of his or her public duties shall disclose the precise nature and value
of the interest, in writing, to the governing body of the city or city agency
served by the officer or employee, and the disclosure shall be entered on the
official record of the proceedings of the governing body. The officer or
employee shall refrain from taking any action with respect to the matter that
is the subject of the disclosure.
(Ord. 94-007, passed 9-13-94)
§ 39.11  CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly
or through others undertake, execute, hold, or enjoy, in whole or in part, any
contract made, entered into, awarded, or granted by the city or a city agency,
except as follows:
      (1)   The prohibition in subsection (A) of this section shall not apply
to contracts entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for
city office, before an appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency
office, or before an employee was hired by the city or city agency. However, if
any contract entered into by a city or city agency officer or employee before
he or she became a candidate, was appointed to office, or was hired as an
employee, is renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes the
appointed office, or is hired as an employee, then the prohibition in
subsection (A) of this section shall apply to the renewal of the contract.
      (2)   The prohibition in subsection (A) of this section shall not apply
if the contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless
the officer or employee is authorized to participate in establishing the
contract specifications, awarding the contract, or managing contract
performance after the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any
of the authorities set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or
employee shall have no interest in the contract, unless the requirements set
forth in subsection (A)(3) below are satisfied.
      (3)   The prohibition in subsection (A) of this section shall not apply
in any case where the following requirements are satisfied:
         (a)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer's or employee's interest in the contract are publicly disclosed
at the meeting of the City Council of the city or city agency;
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the City
Council or city agency before the contract is executed;
         (c)   A finding is made by the City Council or city agency that the
contract with the officer or employee is in the best interests of the public
and the city or city agency because of price, limited supply, or other specific
reasons; and
         (d)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the City
Council or city agency before the contract is executed.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor,
and upon conviction, the court may void any contract entered into in violation
of this section. Additionally, a violation of this section shall be grounds for
removal from office or employment with the city in accordance with any
applicable provisions of state law and ordinances, rules or regulations of the
city.
(Ord. 94-007, passed 9-13-94)
§ 39.12  RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly, or
indirectly through any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift
having a fair market value of more than $100, whether in the form of money,
service, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing or promise, or any
other form, under the circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred
that the gift was intended to influence, or could reasonably be expected to
influence the officer or employee in the performance of his or her public
duties.
(Ord. 94-007, passed 9-13-94)
§ 39.13  USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT, AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any city
time, funds, personnel, equipment, or other personal or real property for the
private use of any person, unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy; or
   (B)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that such use is available to the general public.
(Ord. 94-007, passed 9-13-94)
§ 39.14  REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall represent
any person or business, other than the city, in connection with any cause,
proceeding, application or other matter pending before the city or any city
agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an employee from representing
another employee or employees where the representation is within the context of
official labor union or similar representational responsibilities.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matters concerning his or her own interests.
   (D)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward
or other thing of value is promised to, given to, or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(Ord. 94-007, passed 9-13-94)
§ 39.15  MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall intentionally
use or disclose information acquired in the course of his or her official
duties, if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further his or
her personal financial interest or that of another person or business.
Information shall be deemed confidential, if it is not subject to disclosure
pursuant to the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 to 61.884, at the time of
its use or disclosure.
(Ord. 94-007, passed 9-13-94)
§ 39.16  POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall appear or
practice before the city or any city agency with respect to any matter on which
the officer or employee personally worked while in the service of the city or
city agency for a period of one year after the termination of the officer's or
employee's service with the city or city agency.
(Ord. 94-007, passed 9-13-94)
§ 39.17  HONORARIA.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall accept any
compensation, honorarium or gift with a fair market value greater than $100 in
consideration of an appearance, speech or article unless the appearance, speech
or article is both related to the officer's or employee's activities outside of
municipal service and is unrelated to the officer's or employee's service with
the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency from receiving and retaining from the city or on behalf
of the city actual and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the
officer or employee in connection with an appearance, speech or article,
provided that the officer or employee can show by clear and convincing evidence
that the expenses were incurred or received on behalf of the city of city
agency and primarily for the benefit of the city or city agency and not
primarily for the benefit of the officer or employee or any other person.
(Ord. 94-007, passed 9-13-94)
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 39.30  WHO MUST FILE.
   The following classes of officers, employees of the city and city agencies
shall file an annual statement of financial interest with the Board of Ethics:
      (A)   Elected city officials;
      (B)   Candidates for elected city offices;
      (C)   Members of the City Planning & Zoning Commission and Board of
Adjustment;
      (D)   Members of the Board of Ethics created by this chapter;
      (E)   Members of the Paintsville Tourism Commission, Paintsville
Utilities Commission, and Paintsville Housing Authority; and
      (F)   Non-elected officials of the city or any city agency who are
authorized to make purchases of materials or services or award contracts,
leases or agreements involving the expenditures of more than $500.
(Ord. 94-007, passed 9-13-94; Am. Ord. 95-001, passed 3-14-95)
§ 39.31  WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this section
shall be filed with the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated as the custodian of its records by the Board of Ethics, no later
than 4:00 p.m. January 31, 1995. All statements of financial interest shall be
filed no later than 4:00 p.m. on January 31 each year, provided that:
      (1)   An officer or employee newly-appointed to fill an office or
position of employment with the city or a city agency shall file his or her
initial statement no later than 30 days after the date of the appointment.
      (2)   A candidate for city office shall file his or her initial statement
no later than 30 days after the date on which the person becomes a candidate
for elected city office.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board, the officer or
employee shall, no later than 30 days after becoming aware of the material
change, file an amended statement with the Board.
(Ord. 94-007, passed 9-13-94)
§ 39.32  FORM OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form prescribed by
the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated by the Board of
Ethics. The Board, or the designated administrative official, shall deliver a
copy of the form to each officer and employee required to file the statement,
by first class mail or hand delivery, no later than December 1 of each year.
The failure of the Board, or the designated administrative official, to deliver
a copy of the form to any officer or employee shall not relieve the officer or
employee of the obligation to file the statement.
(Ord. 94-007, passed 9-13-94)
§ 39.33  CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF THE STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics shall be the “official custodian” of the
statements of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance
of the statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interest
shall be maintained by the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated by the Board of Ethics as the “custodian,” as public documents,
available for public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the Board, or
the designated administrative official, for a period of five years after filing
provided that:
      (1)   Upon the expiration of three years after a person ceases to be an
officer or employee of the city or a city agency, the Board shall cause to be
destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those statements
filed by the person.
      (2)   Upon the expiration of three years after any election at which a
candidate for elected city office was not elected or nominated, the Board shall
cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those
statements filed by the person.
(Ord. 94-007, passed 9-13-94)
§ 39.34  CONTENTS OF THE FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT.
   The statement of financial interests shall include the following information
for the preceding calendar year:
   (A)   The name, current business address, business telephone number, and
home address of the filer;
   (B)   The title of the filer's office, office sought, or position of
employment;
   (C)   The occupation of the filer and the filer's spouse;
   (D)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer and the
filer's immediate family members exceeding $5,000 during the preceding calendar
year, and the nature of the income (e.g., salary, commission, dividends,
retirement fund distribution, etc.);
   (E)   The name and address of any business located within the state in which
the filer or any member of the filer's immediate family had at any time during
the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 at fair market value or 5%
ownership interest or more;
   (F)   The name and address of any business located outside of the state, if
the business has engaged in any business transactions with the city during the
past three years, or which is anticipated to engage in any business
transactions with the city, in which the filer or any member of the filer's
immediate family had at any time during the preceding calendar year an interest
of $10,000 at fair market value or 5% ownership interest or more;
   (G)   Each source by name and address of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of $100 or more from any single source dong
business with the city or associated with same, excluding gifts received from
family members, received by the filer or any member of the filer's immediate
family during the preceding calendar year; and
   (H)   The name and address of any creditor owed more than $10,000, except
debts arising from the purchase of a primary residence or the purchase of
consumer goods which are bought or used primarily for person, family or
household purposes. This information need only be given if the creditor in
question does business with the city. If an individual who is required to file
a financial interests statement becomes aware of a creditor as outlined above
who is anticipating doing business with the city in any capacity, that
individual will make this disclosure as an amendment to the financial interest
statement previously filed. This disclosure will be made prior to the
creditor's business transaction with the city.
(Ord. 94-007, passed 9-13-94)
§ 39.35  NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics, or the designated administrative official, shall
notify by certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial
interest who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete
statement, or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed by the
Board. The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall
establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied, and
shall advise the person of the penalties for a violation.
   (B)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who fails or
refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice under
subsection (A) within the time period established in the notice shall be guilty
of a civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed by the Board in
an amount not to exceed $25 per day, up to a maximum total civil fine of $500.
Any civil fine imposed by the Board under this section may be recovered by the
city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails or refuses
to pay the penalty within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial interests
which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally omits
required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 94-007, passed 9-13-94)
NEPOTISM
§ 39.50  NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall advocate,
recommend or cause the employment, appointment, promotion, transfer, or
advancement of a family member to an office or position of employment with the
city or a city agency.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall supervise or
manage the work of a family member.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall participate in any action relating to the
employment or discipline of a family member, except that this prohibition shall
not prevent an elected or appointed official from voting on or participating in
the development of a budget which includes compensation for a family member,
provided that the family member is included only as a member of a class of
persons or a group, and the family member benefits to no greater extent than
any other similarly situated member of the class or group.
   (D)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to the
effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 94-007, passed 9-13-94)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 39.60  BOARD OF ETHICS CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board of Ethics which shall have the
authorities, duties, and responsibilities as set forth in this chapter to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics shall consist of five members who shall be
appointed by the mayor of the city, subject to the approval of the City
Council. The initial members of the Board of Ethics shall be appointed within
60 days of the effective date of this chapter. No member of the Board of Ethics
shall hold any elected or appointed office, whether paid or unpaid, or any
position of employment with the city or any city agency. The members shall
serve for a term of three years; except that with respect to the members
initially appointed, one member shall be appointed for a term of one year, two
members shall be appointed for a term of two years and two members shall be
appointed for a term of three years. Thereafter, all appointments shall be for
a term of three years. No more than three of the members shall be of the same
political party. Each member of the Board of Ethics shall have been a resident
of the city for at least one year prior to the date of the appointment and
shall reside in the city throughout the term in office. The members of the
Board of Ethics shall be chosen by virtue of their known and consistent
reputation for integrity and their knowledge of local government affairs. The
members may be re-appointed for any number of consecutive terms.
   (C)   A member of the Board of Ethics may be removed by the mayor subject to
the approval of the City Council for misconduct, inability, or willful neglect
of duties. Before any member of the Board of Ethics is removed from office
under this section, the member shall be afforded the opportunity for a hearing
before the mayor and the City Council.
   (D)   Vacancies on the Board of Ethics shall be filled within 60 days by the
Mayor, subject to the approval of the City Council. If a vacancy is not filled
by the mayor within 60 days, the remaining members of the Board of Ethics shall
fill the vacancy. All vacancies shall be filled for the remainder of the
unexpired term.
   (E)   Members of the Board of Ethics shall serve without compensation,
unless otherwise approved by the City Council, but shall be reimbursed for all
necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
   (F)   The Board of Ethics shall, upon the initial appointment of its
members, and annually thereafter, elect a chairperson from among the
membership. The chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting
member of the Board.
   (G)   Meetings of the Board of Ethics shall be held, as necessary, upon the
call of the chairperson or at the written request of a majority of the members.
   (H)   The presence of three or more members shall constitute a quorum and
the affirmative vote of three or more members shall be necessary for any
official action to be taken. Any member of the Board of Ethics who has a
conflict of interest with respect to any matter to be considered by the Board
shall disclose the nature of the conflict, shall disqualify himself or herself
from voting on the matter, and shall not be counted for purposes of
establishing a quorum.
   (I)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board of Ethics and
the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in
the minutes.
(Ord. 94-007, passed 9-13-94)
§ 39.61  ALTERNATE MEMBERS.
   The Mayor, with the approval of the City Council may appoint two alternate
members of the Board of Ethics who may be called upon to serve when any regular
member of the Board is unable to discharge his or her duties. An alternate
member shall be appointed for a term of one year. Alternate members shall meet
all qualifications and be subject to all of the requirements of this chapter
that apply to regular members.
(Ord. 94-007, passed 9-13-94)
§ 39.62  FACILITIES AND STAFF.
   Within the limits of the funds appropriated by the legislative body in the
annual budget, the city shall provide the Board of Ethics, either directly or
by contract or agreement, with the facilities, materials, supplies, and staff
needed for the conduct of its business.
(Ord. 94-007, passed 9-13-94)
§ 39.63  POWER AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF ETHICS.
   The Board of Ethics shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To initiate on its own motion, receive and investigate complaints,
hold hearings, and make findings of fact and determinations with regard to
alleged violations of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   To issue orders in connection with its investigations and hearings
requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to the proceedings and to order testimony to be
taken by deposition before any individual designated by the Board who has the
power to administer oaths.
   (C)   To administer oaths and to issue orders requiring the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating to
an investigation or hearing being conducted by the Board.
   (D)   To refer any information concerning violations of this ordinance to
the executive authority of the city, the city legislative body, the governing
body of any city agency, the county attorney, or other appropriate person or
body, as necessary.
   (E)   To render advisory opinions to city and city agency officers and
employees regarding whether a given set of facts and circumstances would
constitute a violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (F)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all officers
and employees of the city and city agencies who are subject to its terms by
issuing appropriate orders and imposing penalties authorized by this chapter.
   (G)   To control and maintain all statements of financial interests that are
required to be filed by this chapter and to insure that the statements are
available for public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter and the Kentucky Open Records Act.
   (H)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business that may be required by the executive authority or legislative body of
the city.
   (I)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter, provided that the
rules, regulations, and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law.
(Ord. 94-007, passed 9-13-94)
§ 39.64  FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Board of Ethics, or the administrative
official designated by the Board of Ethics. All complaints shall be in writing,
signed by the complainant, and shall meet any other requirements established by
the Board of Ethics. The Board of Ethics shall acknowledge receipt of a
complaint to the complainant within ten working days from the date of receipt.
The Board shall forward within ten working days to each officer or employee of
the city or city agency who is the subject of the complaint a copy of the
complaint and a general statement of the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Within 30 days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the Board of
Ethics shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations contained
in the complaint. The Board shall afford a person who is the subject of the
complaint an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the complaint. The
person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to appear and be
heard under oath, and to offer evidence in response to the allegations.
   (C)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Board of Ethics shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Board, except:
      (1)   The Board may turn over to the Commonwealth's attorney or county
attorney evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings.
      (2)   If the complainant or alleged violator publicly disclose the
existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Board may publicly confirm the
existence of the inquiry, and, at its discretion, make public any documents
which were issued to either party.
   (D)   The Board shall make a determination based on its preliminary inquiry
whether the complaint is within its jurisdiction and, if so, whether it alleges
a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation of this ordinance. If the
Board concludes that the complaint is outside of its jurisdiction, frivolous or
without factual basis, the Board shall immediately terminate the inquiry,
reduce the conclusion to writing, and transmit a copy of its decision to the
complainant and to all officers or employees against whom the complaint was
filed.
   (E)   If the Board of Ethics concludes, based upon its preliminary inquiry,
that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations
sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Board shall notify the officer or employee who is the subject of the complaint
and may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances such as, lack of significant
economic advantage or gain by the officer or employee, lack of economic loss to
the city and its taxpayers, or lack of significant impact on public confidence
in city government issue, in writing, a confidential reprimand to the officer
or employee concerning the alleged violation and provide a copy of the
confidential reprimand to the executive authority and governing body of the
city or city agency.
      (2)   Initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation.
   (F)   Any person who knowingly files with the Board a false complaint
alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter by an officer or employee
of the city or any city agency shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 94-007, passed 9-13-94)
§ 39.65  NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   If the Board of Ethics determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, the Board shall issue an order setting
the matter for a hearing within 30 days of the date the order is issued, unless
the alleged violator petitions for and the Board consents to a later date. The
order setting the matter for hearing, along with a copy of any pertinent
regulations of the Board relating to the hearing shall be sent to the alleged
violator within 24 hours of the time the order setting a hearing is issued.
(Ord. 94-007, passed 9-13-94)
§ 39.66 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure and the Kentucky Rules of
Evidence shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Board of Ethics; however,
the hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in
accordance with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Board so as
to afford all parties the full range of due process rights required by the
nature of the proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator, or his
or her representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Board in connection with the
matter to be heard. The Board shall inform the alleged violator, or his or her
representative, of any exculpatory evidence in its possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a Board hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to call
and examine witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross-examine witnesses, to
submit evidence, and to be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have the
right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Board, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (E)   All hearings of the Board of Ethics shall be public, unless the
members vote to go into executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810. At the
request of the person being investigated, the Board may, by majority vote,
conduct a closed hearing.
   (F)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Ethics shall, as
soon as practicable, begin deliberations in executive session for the purpose
of reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether a
violation of this chapter has been proven. Within 30 days after completion of
the hearing, the Board shall issue a written report of its findings and
conclusions.
   (G)   If the Board concludes in its report that no violation of this chapter
has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this determination to
the officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint and to the party
who filed the complaint.
   (H)   If the Board concludes in its report that in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and convincing proof of a
violation of this chapter, the Board may:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation;
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the Mayor and City Council or city agency
with which the violator serves;
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the Mayor and the City Council that the
violator be sanctioned as recommended by the Board, which may include a
recommendation for discipline or dismissal, or removal from office;
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $1,000;
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this chapter or state laws
to the county attorney or commonwealth's attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
(Ord. 94-007, passed 9-13-94)
§ 39.67  APPEALS.
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the Board of Ethics may appeal the finding to the circuit court of
Johnson County within 30 days after the date of the final action by the Board
of Ethics by filing a petition with the court against the Board. The Board
shall transmit to the clerk of the court all evidence considered by the Board
at the public hearing.
(Ord. 94-007, passed 9-13-94)
§ 39.68  LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one year after
the violation is discovered.
(Ord. 94-007, passed 9-13-94)
§ 39.69  ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics may render advisory opinions concerning matters
under its jurisdiction, based upon real or hypothetical facts and
circumstances, upon its own initiative, or when requested by an officer or
employee of the city or a city agency who is covered by this chapter.
   (B)   An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions. The request for an advisory opinion
shall remain confidential unless confidentiality is waives, in writing, by the
requestor.
   (C)   The Board may adopt regulations, consistent with the Kentucky Open
Records Law, to establish criteria under which it will issue confidential
advisory opinions. All other advisory opinions shall be public documents,
except that before an advisory opinion is made public, it shall be modified so
that the identify of any person associated with the opinion shall not be
revealed.
   (D)   The confidentiality of an advisory opinion may be waived either:
      (1)   In writing by the person who requested the opinions; or
      (2)   By majority vote of the members of the Board, if a person makes or
purports to make public the substance or any portion of an advisory opinion
requested by or on behalf of the person. The Board may vote to make public the
advisory opinion request and related materials.
   (E)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be binding on the
Board in any subsequent proceeding concerning the facts and circumstances of
the particular case if no intervening facts or circumstances arise which would
change the opinion of the Board if they had existed at the time the opinion was
rendered. However, if any fact determined by the Board to be material was
omitted or misstated in the request for an opinion, the Board shall not be
bound by the opinion.
   (F)   A written-advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be admissible in
the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil proceeding for violations of
this ordinance for actions taken in reliance on that opinion.
(Ord. 94-007, passed 9-13-94)
§ 39.70  REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall subject to
reprisal, or directly or indirectly use, or threaten to use, any official
authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage,
restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce, or discriminate against any
person who in good faith reports, discloses, divulges, or otherwise brings to
the attention of the Board of Ethics or any other agency or official of the
city or the Commonwealth any facts or information relative to an actual or
suspected violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting disciplinary or
punitive action if an officer or employee of the city or any city agency
discloses information which he or she knows:
      (1)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity;
      (2)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of the
Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 to 61.884; or
      (3)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Ord. 94-007, passed 9-13-94)
§ 39.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this chapter,
any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by the
Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to a civil fine imposed by the
Board of Ethics not to exceed $1,000, which may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails to pay the penalty
within a prescribed period of time.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by
the Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall
forfeit to the city or the city agency an amount equal to the economic
benefit or gain which the officer or employee is determined by the Board to
have realized as a result of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt, if the offender
fails to pay the amount of the forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board of Ethics that an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency is guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be
sufficient cause for removal, suspension, demotion, or other disciplinary
action by the executive authority of the city or city agency, or by any other
officer or agency having the power of removal or discipline. Any action to
remove or discipline any officer or employee for a violation of this chapter
shall be taken in accordance with all applicable ordinances and regulations of
the city and all applicable laws of the Commonwealth.
(Ord. 94-007, passed 9-13-94)
CHAPTER 40:  CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
Section
   
40.01   Definitions
   
40.02   Creation and membership
   
40.03   Enforcement powers
   
40.04   Appointment of members; term of office; removal from office; oath;
compensation
   
40.05   Organization of Board; meetings; quorum
   
40.06   Conflict of interest
   
40.07   Powers of the Code Enforcement Board
   
40.08   Enforcement proceedings
   
40.09   Hearing; notice; and final order
   
40.10   Presentation of cases
   
40.11   Appeals; final judgment
   
40.12   Ordinance fine schedule
   
40.13   Lien; fines, charges and fees
   
40.14   Lienholder notification system
   
40.15   Liens
   
40.16   Immediate action
§ 40.01  DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   ABATEMENT COSTS. A city's necessary and reasonable costs for and associated
with clearing, preventing unauthorized entry to, or demolishing all or a
portion of a structure or premises, or taking any other action with regard to a
structure or premises necessary to remedy a violation and to maintain and
preserve the public health, safety and welfare in accordance with any city
ordinance.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. An administrative body created and acting under the
authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act, KRS 65.8801 to
65.8839.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A city police officer, safety officer, citation
officer, or other public law enforcement officer with the authority to issue a
citation.
   FINAL ORDER. Any order:
      (1)   Issued by the Code Enforcement Board following a hearing in
accordance with §
40.09(E);
      (2)   Created because a violator neither paid nor contested the citation
within seven days as provided in §
40.08(F) ; or
      (3)   Created because a violator failed to appear at a hearing the
violator requested to contest the citation as provided in §
40.09(C).
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
   ORDINANCE. An official action of the local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and
shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by the city
legislative body which embodies all or part of an ordinance.
   OWNER. A person, association, corporation, partnership or other legal entity
having a legal or equitable title in real property.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, including any structures upon it.
(Ord. 2017-009, passed 7-24-17)
§ 40.02  CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby created within the city pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to KRS
65.8839, a Code Enforcement Board which shall be composed of five members, all
of whom shall be residents of the city for a period of at least one year prior
to their appointment and shall reside there throughout the term in office.
(Ord. 2017-009, passed 7-24-17)
§ 40.03  ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial
orders and impose civil fines as a method of enforcing city ordinances when a
violation of this chapter has been classified as a civil offense.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Board shall not have the authority to enforce any
ordinance regulating conduct which would also, under any provision of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes, constitute a criminal offense or a moving motor
vehicle offense.
(Ord. 2017-009, passed 7-24-17)
§ 40.04  APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; OATH;
COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be appointed by the
executive authority of the city, subject to the approval of the legislative
body.
   (B)   The initial appointment to the Code Enforcement Board shall be as
follows:
      (1)   One-fifth of the membership of the board shall be appointed for a
term of one year;
      (2)   Two-fifths of the membership of the board shall be appointed for a
term of two years; and
      (3)   Two-fifths of the membership f the board shall be appointed for a
term of three years.
   (C)   All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of three years. A
member may be reappointed, subject to the approval of the legislative body.
   (D)   Any vacancy on the board shall be filled by the executive authority,
subject to approval of the legislative body, within 60 days of the vacancy. If
the vacancy is not filled within that time period, the remaining Code
Enforcement Board members shall fill the vacancy. A vacancy shall be filled for
the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (E)   A board member may be removed from office by the executive authority
for misconduct, inefficiency, or willful neglect of duty. The executive
authority shall submit a written statement to the member and the legislative
body setting forth the reasons for removal. The member so removed shall have
the right of appeal to the Circuit Court.
   (F)   All members of the Code Enforcement Board shall, before entering upon
the duties of their office, take the oath of office prescribed by Section 228
of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (G)   No member of the Code Enforcement Board shall hold any elected or
nonelected office, paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city.
(Ord. 2017-009, passed 7-24-17)
§ 40.05  ORGANIZATION OF BOARD; MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall annually elect a chair from among its
members. The chair shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member of
the board. In the absence of the chair, the remaining members of the board
shall select a member to preside in place of and exercise the powers of the
chair.
   (B)   Regular meetings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be held on the of
every month. Meetings other than those regularly scheduled shall be special
meetings or emergency meetings held in accordance with the requirements of the
Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (C)   All meetings and hearings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be
public meetings held in accordance with the requirements of KRS 65.8815(5) and
the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (D)   The presence of at least a majority of the board's entire membership
shall constitute a quorum. The affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of
the board shall be necessary for any official action to be taken.
   (E)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Code Enforcement
Board and the vote of any member on any issue decided by the board shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Ord. 2017-009, passed 7-24-17)
§ 40.06  CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Any member of the Code Enforcement Board who has any direct or indirect
financial or personal interest in any matter to be decided shall disclose the
nature of the interest, shall disqualify himself from voting on the matter in
which he has an interest, and shall not be counted for purposes of establishing
a quorum.
(Ord. 2017-009, passed 7-24-17)
§ 40.07  POWERS OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.
   The City of Paintsville Code Enforcement Board shall have the following
powers and duties:
   (A)   To adopt rules and regulations to govern its operations and the
conduct of its hearings consistent with this chapter.
   (B)   (b) To conduct hearings to determine if there has been a violation of
an ordinance over which it has jurisdiction.
   (C)   To subpoena alleged violators, witnesses and evidence to its hearings.
Subpoenas issued by the Code Enforcement Board may be served by any Code
Enforcement Officer.
   (D)   To take testimony under oath. The chairman shall have the authority to
administer oaths for the purpose of taking testimony.
   (E)   To make findings of fact and issue orders necessary to remedy any
violation of a city ordinance or code provision which the board is authorized
to enforce.
   (F)   To impose civil fines, as authorized, on any person found to have
violated an ordinance over which the board has jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2017-009, passed 7-24-17)
§ 40.08  ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Code Enforcement Board:
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings shall only be initiated by the issuance of a
citation by a Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Except when immediate action is necessary pursuant to §
40.16, if a Code Enforcement Officer believes, based on his personal
observation or investigation, that a person has violated a city ordinance, he
shall issue a notice of violation allowing the alleged violator a specified
period of time to remedy the violation without incurring a fine. If the alleged
violator fails or refuses to remedy the violation within the time specified,
the Code Enforcement Officer is authorized to issue a citation.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall issue a citation by one of the
following methods:
      (1)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
      (2)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person 18 years of age or
older who is on the premises, if the alleged violator is not on the premises at
the time the citation is issued;
      (3)   Mailing a copy of the citation by regular first-class mail to the
last known recorded mailing address of the alleged violator; or
      (4)   If, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the issuance of a
citation using the methods set out in division (C)(1) - (3) is not possible,
then the citation is properly served by posting a copy of the citation in a
conspicuous place on the premises.
   (D)   The citation issued by the Code Enforcement Officer shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (4)   The date and time the offense was committed;
      (5)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (6)   The section of the code or the number of the ordinance violated;
      (7)   The name of the Code Enforcement Officer;
      (8)   The civil fine that may be imposed for the violation, including, if
applicable:
         (a)   The civil fine that will be imposed if the person does not
contest the citation; and
         (b)   The maximum civil fine that may be imposed if the person elects
to contest the citation;
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (10)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation within the time allowed: the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board to contest the citation; the determination that the violation
was committed shall be final; the citation as issued shall be deemed a final
order determining that the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine
as set forth in the citation; and the person shall be deemed to have waived the
right to appeal the final order to District Court.
   (E)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall notify the Code Enforcement Board by delivering the citation to
the City Clerk. Thereafter, the City Clerk shall provide a copy of the citation
to each member of the Code Enforcement Board.
   (F)   (1)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven days of the date of issuance by either paying the civil
fine or requesting, in writing, a hearing to contest the citation. If the
person fails to respond to the citation within seven days, the person shall be
deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a
violation was committed shall be considered final. In this event, the citation
as issued shall be deemed a final order determining that the violation was
committed and imposing the civil fine as set forth in the citation, and the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to appeal the final order to
District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving a copy of the order at that person's usual place of
residence with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older
and who is informed of the contents of the order.
(Ord. 2017-009, passed 7-24-17)
§ 40.09  HEARING; NOTICE; AND FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing has been requested, the Code Enforcement Board or its
administrative staff shall schedule a hearing.
   (B)   Not less than seven days before the date of the hearing, the Code
Enforcement Board shall notify the requester of the date, time, and place of
the hearing. The notice may be given by regular first-class mail; certified
mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at
the person's usual place of residence with any individual residing therein who
is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of the notice.
   (C)   (1)   Any person requesting a hearing who fails to appear at the time
and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to a
hearing to contest the citation, and the determination that a violation was
committed shall be final. In this event, the citation as issued shall be deemed
a final order determining the violation was committed and imposing the civil
fine set forth in the citation, and the alleged violator shall be deemed to
have waived the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the notice.
   (D)   All testimony at the hearing shall be taken under oath and recorded.
Testimony shall be taken from the Code Enforcement Officer, the alleged
violator, and any witnesses to the violation offered by the Code Enforcement
Officer or alleged violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but
fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (E)   The Code Enforcement Board shall, based on the evidence, determine
whether a violation was committed. If it is determined that no violation was
committed, an order dismissing the citation shall be entered. If it is
determined that a violation was committed, an order may be issued upholding the
citation. The board may impose a fine up to the maximum authorized by
ordinance, or require the offender to remedy a continuing violation to avoid a
fine, or both.
   (F)   (1)   Every final order following a hearing shall be reduced to
writing, which shall include the findings and conclusions reached and the date
the order was issued. A copy shall be furnished to the person named in the
citation.
      (2)   If the person named in the citation is not present when the final
order is issued, the order shall be delivered to the person by regular first-
class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by
leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence with any individual
residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the
contents of the notice.
(Ord. 2017-009, passed 7-24-17)
§ 40.10  PRESENTATION OF CASES.
   Each case before the Code Enforcement Board shall be presented by an
attorney selected by the city, a Code Enforcement Officer for the city, or by a
member of the city's administrative staff. The city attorney may either be
counsel to the Code Enforcement Board or may present cases before the Code
Enforcement Board, but shall in no case serve in both capacities.
(Ord. 2017-009, passed 7-24-17)
§ 40.11  APPEALS; FINAL JUDGMENT.
   (A)   An appeal from a final order of a Code Enforcement Board following a
hearing conducted pursuant to §
40.09(E) may be made to the Johnson County District Court within 30 days of the
date the order is issued. The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a
complaint and a copy of the final order in the same manner as any civil action
under the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   If no appeal from a final order of the Code Enforcement Board is filed
within the time period set in division (A), the Code Enforcement Board's order
shall be deemed final for all purposes.
(Ord. 2017-009, passed 7-24-17)
§ 40.12  ORDINANCE FINE SCHEDULE.
   Violations of ordinances that are enforced by the city Code Enforcement
Board shall be subject to the following schedule of civil fines:
   (A)   If a citation for a violation of an ordinance is not contested by the
person charged with the violation, the penalties set forth in this subsection
shall apply:
 
Violation                       First Offense Second Offense All Others
Animals                         $25           $50            $100
Unsafe and unfit structure code $100          $125           $150
Garbage                         $10           $25            $50
Occupational license            $50           $75            $100
Weeds                           $10           $25            $50
 
   (B)   If the citation is contested and a hearing before the Code Enforcement
Board is required, the following maximum penalties may be imposed at the
discretion of the Code Enforcement Board:
 
Violation                      First Offense Second Offense All Others
Animals                        $100          $200           $300
Building and construction code $500          $750           $1,000
Garbage                        $75           $150           $250
Occupational license           $500          $750           $1,000
Weeds                          $50           $75            $100
 
(Ord. 2017-009, passed 7-24-17)
§ 40.13  LIEN; FINES, CHARGES, AND FEES.
   (A)   The city shall possess a lien on property owned by the person found by
a nonappealable final order as defined by §
40.01(D), or by a final judgment of the court, to have committed a violation of
a city ordinance. The lien shall be for all civil fines assessed for the
violation and for all charges and fees incurred by the city in connection with
the enforcement of this chapter, including abatement costs. An affidavit of the
Code Enforcement Officer shall constitute prima facie evidence of the amount of
the lien and regularity of the proceedings pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839.
   (B)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the county clerk. The lien
shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear
interest until paid. The lien shall continue for ten years following the date
of the non-appealable final order or final court judgment.
   (C)   Subject to §
40.15, the lien shall take precedence over all other liens, except state,
county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial
proceedings, including a foreclosure action.
   (D)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (A) of this section,
the person found to have committed the violation shall be personally
responsible for the amount of all civil fines assessed for the violation and
for all charges, fees and abatement costs incurred by the city in connection
with the enforcement of this chapter. The city may bring a civil action against
the person and shall have the same remedies as provided for the recovery of a
debt.
(Ord. 2017-009, passed 7-24-17)
§ 40.14  LIENHOLDER NOTIFICATION SYSTEM.
   The city shall obtain and maintain priority over previously filed liens, as
provided in §
40.13 in accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   Individuals and entities, including but not limited to lienholders,
may register with the city to receive electronic notification of final orders
entered pursuant to chapter.
   (B)   In order to receive the notification, the registrant shall submit the
following information
to the City Clerk:
      (1)   Name;
      (2)   Mailing address;
      (3)   Phone number; and
      (4)   Electronic mailing address.
   (C)   A registrant may use the electronic form provided on the city Web site
to submit the information required by division (B) of this section. It shall be
the responsibility of the registrant to maintain and update the required
contact information with the city. The city shall inform a registrant of any
evidence received that the electronic mailing address is invalid or not
functional so that the registrant may provide an updated electronic mailing
address.
   (D)   Once per month, the city shall send electronic mail notification of
all final orders entered pursuant to this chapter since the last date of
notification to each party registered pursuant to this section. The
notification shall provide an electronic link to the city code enforcement
database located on the city Web site. The database shall include the following
information regarding each final order:
      (1)   The name of the person charged with a violation;
      (2)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (3)   The last known mailing address for the owner of the premises where
the violation occurred if, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, it is
ascertainable.;
      (4)   A copy of the full citation;
      (5)   A copy of the full final order; and
      (6)   The status of the final order regarding its ability to be appealed
pursuant to this chapter.
   (E)   If an appeal is filed on a final order pursuant to this chapter, the
city shall send electronic mail notification to all registrants.
   (F)   The city shall update its code enforcement database to reflect the
issued final order, and shall post the notification required by division (D)
containing an updated link to the code enforcement database in a conspicuous
space on the city Web site, at the same time that it provides the electronic
notification.
   (G)   The city shall maintain the records created under this section for ten
years following their issuance.
(Ord. 2017-009, passed 7-24-17)
§ 40.15  LIENS.
   (A)   A lienholder of record who has registered pursuant to §
40.14(B) may, within 45 days from the date of issuance of notification under §
40.14(D)
      (1)   Correct the violation, if it has not already been abated; or
      (2)   Pay all civil fines assessed for the violation, and all charges and
fees incurred by the city in connection with enforcement of this chapter,
including abatement costs.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action if necessary under §
40.16.
   (C)   The lien provided by §
40.13 shall not take precedence over previously recorded liens if:
      (1)   The city failed to comply with the requirements of §
40.14 for notification of the final order; or
      (2)   A prior lienholder complied with division (A).
   (D)   A lien that does not take precedence over previously recorded liens
under division (C) of this section shall, if the final order remains partially
unsatisfied, continue to take precedence over all other subsequent liens except
liens for state, county, school board and city taxes.
   (E)   The city may record a lien before the 45-day period established in
division (A) of this section expires. If the lien is fully satisfied prior to
the expiration of the 45-day period, the city shall release the lien in the
county clerk's office where the lien is recorded within 15 days of
satisfaction.
   (F)   Failure of the city to comply with §§
40.14 and
40.15, or failure of a lien to take precedence over previously filed liens as
provided in division (C), shall not limit or restrict any other remedies the
city has against the property of the violator.
(Ord. 2017-009, passed 7-24-17)
§ 40.16  IMMEDIATE ACTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the city from taking immediate action
to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is reason to believe that
the violation presents a serious threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of the violation
will be irreparable or irreversible.
(Ord. 2017-009, passed 7-24-17)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
51.   NATURAL GAS
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   UTILITIES
      
54.   WATER
CHAPTER 50:  GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Accumulation in approved containers required
   
50.03   Placement and maintenance of containers
   
50.04   Fees to be paid for collection service; uncollected garbage declared a
nuisance
   
50.05   Transportation of garbage over public ways prohibited
   
50.06   Ownership of refuse
Garbage and Refuse Collection
   
50.20   Definitions
   
50.21   Prohibited household garbage
   
50.22   Leaving garbage out overnight; container specifications
   
50.23   Commercial customers to place garbage in bins or dumpsters
   
50.24   Special provisions for food service establishments
   
50.25   Collection of special items; fees
   
50.26   Contracts for collection; franchise fees
   
50.27   Apartment complexes
Rates and Charges
   
50.40   Residential garbage rates
   
50.41   Commercial garbage rates
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE.  All putrescible wastes, except sewage and body wastes, including
vegetable and animal offal and carcasses of dead animals, but excluding
recognizable industrial byproducts, and shall include all substances from all
public and private establishments and from all residences.
   REFUSE.  Ashes, glass, crockery, tin cans, paper, boxes, rags and old
clothing and all other similar nonputrescible wastes.  The term shall not
include any material such as earth, sand, brick, stone, plaster, or similar
substances that may accumulate as a result of construction operations.
(Ord. passed 5-13-52) 
§ 50.02  ACCUMULATION IN APPROVED CONTAINERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No owner, tenant or lessee of any public or private premises shall
permit to accumulate upon his premises any garbage or refuse except in covered
containers approved by the Sanitary Inspector of the County Health Department
or the Mayor.  Such containers shall be constructed of metal in such manner as
to be strong, not easily corrodible, rodent proof, shall have a capacity of not
less than 20 gallons, nor more than 30 gallons, which are covered with close-
fitting lids, same to be in place at all times except when refuse is being
deposited therein or removed therefrom.  Where practicable, all garbage shall
be drained of liquids and wrapped in papers.  If one container is not
sufficient to hold the quantity of garbage accumulated between collections, a
sufficient number of containers shall be provided.  Boxes, papers, tree
cuttings, and odd articles shall be bundled in lengths not to exceed five feet
and not to exceed 50 pounds in weight. 
(Ord. passed 5-13-52) 
   (B)   Before any person shall be found guilty for violating division (A) of
this section, the Sanitation Supervisor for the city shall send notice by
regular mail to any owner, tenant or lessee of any premises allowing garbage or
refuse to accumulate upon premises owned, rented or leased by an individual,
giving the individual 15 days from the date of the letter in which to remove
garbage or refuse from the premises.
(Ord. 91-007, passed 6-11-91)
   (C)   The City of Paintsville shall offer garbage containers to its
customers for monthly rental at a cost of $3 per month.
(Ord. 2005-001, passed 2-22-05) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03  PLACEMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF CONTAINERS.
   No garbage or refuse shall be collected by any authorized agency or person
unless it is placed and maintained as designated by the city official in charge
of garbage and refuse collection.  The containers shall be placed in an alley
adjacent to the property line or other convenient place for trucking, the place
to be designated by the city official in charge of garbage and refuse
collection and at an hour to be specified by him.  All containers shall be kept
in a safe and sanitary condition at all times.  Evidence of neglect of this
requirement will be determined by the city official in charge of garbage and
refuse collection and will result in the containers being collected, after the
owner has been notified.
(Ord. passed 5-13-52)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04  FEES TO BE PAID FOR COLLECTION SERVICE; UNCOLLECTED GARBAGE DECLARED A
NUISANCE.
   No garbage or refuse shall be collected from any premises where the owner or
lessee is in arrears for a period of one month.  Fermenting, putrefying, or
odiferous garbage in containers uncollected or dumped in the open due to
failure to pay garbage fees shall be declared a nuisance.
(Ord. passed 5-13-52)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05  TRANSPORTATION OF GARBAGE OVER PUBLIC WAYS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to transport
garbage or other refuse over the streets and public ways of the city except
those authorized by the city official in charge of the municipal garbage
collection and disposal system.
(Ord. passed 5-13-52)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06  OWNERSHIP OF REFUSE.
   All junk, scrap and other materials of the disposal sites are the property
of the city, and no person is allowed to separate and collect, carry off or
dispose of the same except under the direction of the city official in charge
of the municipal garbage collection and disposal system.
(Ord. passed 5-13-52) 
GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION
§ 50.20  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT.  Any fixed or mobile commercial establishment
that engages in the preparation and serving of ready to eat foods in portions
to the consumer, including, but not limited to:  restaurants; coffee shops;
cafeterias; short order cafes; luncheonettes; grills; tea rooms; sandwich
shops; soda fountains; roadside stands; industrial feeding establishments;
private or public nonprofit organizations or institutions routinely serving
food; catering kitchens; commissaries; or similar places in which food is
prepared for sale or service on the premises or elsewhere with or without
charge.  It does not include food vending machines or establishments serving
beverages only in single service or original containers.  (Ord. 78-08, passed
6-1-78)
   TEMPORARY SERVICE.  The hauling of building materials or similar garbage on
a temporary basis, as a result of a building or remodeling project, the service
not to exceed three months in length.
   TOTAL PICKUP.  The hauling of all garbage produced by a consumer either by
use of a compactor or other device.
   WEEK-END SERVICE.  Garbage pickup conducted on Saturday, Sunday, or on both
days.
(Ord. 92-008, passed 7-16-92)
§ 50.21  PROHIBITED HOUSEHOLD GARBAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to place litter, refuse, garbage, hazardous
material, metal, wood, brick, stone, building debris, petroleum distillate or
product, paint or paint cans, or any other waste materials in any garbage
container, bin, dumpster or other receptacle belonging to or on the premises of
someone other than themselves, whether it be individual or commercial.
(Ord. 92-008, passed 7-16-92; Am. Ord. 92-007, passed 8-10-93)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.22  LEAVING GARBAGE OUT OVERNIGHT; CONTAINER SPECIFICATIONS.
   No garbage, refuse or other waste materials shall be left or kept outdoors
overnight at or around any residence within the city, except in metal
containers covered with tight-fitting lids.  Such containers shall be so
designed as to prevent rodents and other animals from coming in contact with
the garbage and refuse contained therein.
(Ord. 78-08, passed 6-1-78)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.23  COMMERCIAL CUSTOMERS TO PLACE GARBAGE IN BINS OR DUMPSTERS.
   (A)   All commercial customers whose volume of garbage exceeds four yards
per month shall place their garbage in dumpsters for pickup.  No city employee
will remove any garbage from any bin, and no city employee will pick up any
garbage not contained in a dumpster.  All businesses will be required to
maintain dumpsters in a safe and proper working order.  Any business that
maintains a dumpster that is not in working order, upon notification from the
Sanitation Supervisor, shall promptly repair any such dumpster. If repairs are
not made in a reasonable period of time, city employees will not pick up
garbage from the offending dumpster or dumpsters.  The customer will be charged
the usual rate during the time of cessation of garbage and pickup until such
time as the customer brings the dumpster into compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 92-008, passed 7-16-92)
   (B)   All dumpsters and bins shall be equipped with wheels, so as to be
movable or mobile, and there shall be provided on the premises of the
commercial establishments sufficient space for the city garbage trucks to
maneuver and conveniently empty the dumpsters and bins.
   (C)   Each such commercial establishment shall maintain a sufficient number
of dumpsters or bins to accommodate and hold all the garbage produced by the
establishment.  Under no circumstances shall any garbage, litter or other waste
material be stored outside the bins or dumpsters.
   (D)   All such bins and dumpsters shall be so constructed as to be enclosed
fully, and rodent-proof.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, clean cardboard
boxes may be stored outside of bins or dumpsters if the same are first broken
down, or torn or folded so as to become flat.
(Ord. 78-08, passed 6-1-78)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.24  SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS.
   In addition to all other provisions of this chapter, the following special
provisions shall be applicable to food service establishments within the city:
   (A)   Garbage and refuse shall be kept in durable insect-proof and rodent-
proof containers that are leak proof and do not absorb liquids.  Plastic bags
and wet-strength paper bags may be used to line these containers, and may be
used for storage inside the food service establishment when protected from
insects and rodents.
   (B)   Containers, compactors, and compactor systems shall be easily
cleanable, shall be provided with tight-fitting lids, doors, or covers, and
shall be kept covered when not in actual use.  Drain plugs, where required,
shall be in place at all times, except during cleaning.
   (C)   There shall be a sufficient number of containers to hold all the
garbage and refuse that accumulates.
   (D)   After being emptied, each container shall be thoroughly cleaned on the
inside and outside in a way that does not contaminate food, equipment,
utensils, or food preparation areas.  Suitable facilities, including hot water
and detergent, shall be provided and used for washing containers.  Liquid waste
from compacting or cleaning operations shall be disposed of as sewage.
   (E)   Garbage and refuse on the premises shall be stored in a place that is
inaccessible to insects and rodents.  Outside storage of plastic bags or wet-
strength paper bags or baled units containing garbage or refuse is prohibited.
   (F)   Garbage or refuse storage rooms, if used, shall be constructed of
easily cleanable, nonabsorbent, washable materials, shall be kept clean, shall
be insect-proof and rodent-proof, and shall be large enough to store the
garbage and refuse containers that accumulate.
   (G)   Outside storage areas or enclosures shall be large enough to store the
garbage and refuse containers that accumulate and shall be kept clean.  Garbage
and refuse containers and compactor systems located outside shall be stored on
or above a smooth surface of nonabsorbent material, such as concrete or
machine-laid asphalt, that is kept clean and maintained in good repair.
   (H)   Garbage and refuse shall be disposed of often enough to prevent the
development of odor and the attractions of insects and rodents.
   (I)   Where garbage or refuse is burned on the premises, it shall be done by
controlled incineration that prevents the escape of particulate matter in
accordance with applicable regulations of the Department for Natural Resources
and Environmental Protection.  Areas around incineration facilities shall be
kept clean and orderly.
(Ord. 78-08, passed 6-1-78)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.25  COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ITEMS; FEES.
   In the event that a customer desires to have items picked up that cannot be
conveniently or properly loaded into the regular garbage truck, the customer
shall notify the City Clerk.  The Clerk will thereafter notify the customer of
the charge for removing the aforementioned items, which will be paid in advance
of removal by city employees.  Charges for removal of such items will be as
follows:
   Household appliances               $ 20 each 
   Half-truck load of brush or similar material      25       
   Full-truck load of brush or other material      50       
   Couch or other large item of furniture      30       
(Ord. 92-008, passed 7-16-92)
§ 50.26  CONTRACTS FOR COLLECTION; FRANCHISE FEES.
   (A)   No commercial customer shall remove its own garbage, nor hire or
contract with any firm or entity to remove any garbage from the city without
obtaining permission from the city sanitation supervisor.  Permission will be
granted by the supervisor provided that it is in the best interest of the city.
   (B)   Any commercial customer who hauls its own garbage or the entity which
contracts with a commercial customer to haul garbage from the city shall pay a
franchise fee to the city for the privilege of hauling the garbage.  The fee
shall be paid by the commercial customer, if the customer is doing its own
hauling, or by the contracting entity, if the entity is doing the hauling.
   (C)   The franchise fee will be as follows:
      (1)   Temporary service, $3 per cubic yard.
      (2)   Weekday service for one day per week, 4% of the commercial
customer’s regular bill.
      (3)   Weekend service of two days per weekend, 6% of the commercial
customer’s regular bill.
      (4)   Total pickup, as monthly fee of:
         (a)   $187.50 for customers in classifications B through F;
         (b)   $375 for customers in classifications G through K;
         (c)   $750 for customers in classifications L through Q.
(Ord. 92-008, passed 7-16-92; Am. Ord. 2005-002, passed 2-22-05; Am. Ord. 2008-
001, passed 1-29-08)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.27  APARTMENT COMPLEXES.
   (A)   Any and all multiple family dwelling complexes such as apartment
complexes and condominiums which have three or more units shall be required to
utilize a dumpster for the collection of garbage.
   (B)   The dumpster as required by this section shall be kept at a central
location easily accessible to both the residents of the complex and the
sanitation department of the city.
   (C)   No city employee will remove any garbage from any bin and no city
employee will pick up any garbage not contained in a dumpster.
   (D)   All complexes will be required to maintain dumpsters in a safe and
proper working order.
   (E)   Any complex that maintains a dumpster that is not in working order,
upon notification from the sanitation supervisor, shall promptly repair any
such dumpster.  If repairs are not made in a reasonable period of time, city
employees will not pick up garbage from that particular dumpster or dumpsters.
   (F)   All dumpsters and bins shall be equipped with wheels so as to be
movable or mobile and there shall be provided on the premises of the complex
sufficient space for the city garbage truck to maneuver and conveniently empty
the dumpster.
   (G)   Each complex shall maintain a sufficient number of dumpsters to
accommodate and hold all the garbage produced by that complex.  Under no
circumstances shall any garbage, litter or other waste material be stored
outside the dumpsters.
   (H)   All such dumpsters shall be so constructed as to be enclosed fully and
rodent-proof.
(Ord. 98-006, passed 7-15-98)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.40  RESIDENTIAL GARBAGE RATES.
   The basic monthly household garbage fee shall be $12.50 per month.  Persons
generating garbage in excess of the amount specified in the Refuse Control Act
of 1992 shall pay for garbage service as specified in that act.
(Ord. 70-05, passed 8-4-70; Am. Ord. 78-07, passed 6-1-78; Am. Ord. 88-06,
passed 6-7-88; Am. Ord. 92-007, passed 7-16-92; Am. Ord. 2008-001, passed 1-29-
08)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.41  COMMERCIAL GARBAGE RATES.
   Commercial garbage rates shall be as follows:
Class Monthly Volume Monthly Rate
Class Monthly Volume Monthly Rate
B     1 - 2             $    25.00
C     3 - 4          35.00
D     5 - 6          52.50
E     7 - 10         87.50
F     11 - 12        105.00
G     13 - 18        157.50
H     19 - 25        218.75
I     26 - 30        262.50
J     31 - 40        350.00
K     41 - 60        525.00
L     61 - 80        700.00
M     81 - 100       875.00
N     101 - 125      1,093.75
O     125 - 150      1,312.50
P     151 - 175      1,562.50
Q     Over 175       1,750.00
 
(Ord. 70-05, passed 8-4-70; Am. Ord. 78-07, passed 6-1-78; Am. Ord. 88-06,
passed 6-7-88; Am. Ord. 92-007, passed 7-16-92; Am. Ord. 2005-003, passed 2-22-
05; Am. Ord. 2008-001, passed 1-29-08)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   Any person or entity who violates any portion of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor within the meaning of the Kentucky Revised Statutes,
for which a fine not to exceed $500 may be imposed.  Each day that a violation
occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 92-008, passed 7-16-92)
CHAPTER 51:  NATURAL GAS
Section
   
51.01   Natural gas rates and charges
§ 51.01  NATURAL GAS RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The rates for natural gas for customers in the city and the
Paintsville Utilities Commission are as follows:
 
                          In-City Out-of-City
First 1,000 cubic feet    $7.85   $9.80
Next 2,000 cubic feet     7.30    9.20
All over 3,000 cubic feet 6.90    8.65
 
   (B)   The rates set out above in division (A) for customers of the
Paintsville Utility Commission shall be adjusted on a monthly basis as fuel
rate adjustment based on the actual cost charged to the Paintsville Utility
Commission by its suppliers. It is the intent of this division (B) to allow for
a fuel adjustment  charge equal to the amount of any increase or decrease in
the actual cost the Paintsville Utility Commission incurs for purchasing
natural gas from its suppliers.
   (C)   In addition to the adjustment set out in division (B), there shall be
a yearly adjustment of gas rates effective January 15, 2005 and each January 15
thereafter based upon the Consumer Price Index as published by the Wall Street
Journal. The gas rates shall be adjusted according to that Consumer Price Index
and shall be placed on the February 15 billing and each month thereafter.
(Ord. 90-01, passed 1-22-90; Am. Ord. 90-04, passed 2-13-90; Am. Ord. 94-008,
passed 10-11-94; Am. Ord. 99-015, passed 10-12-99; Am. Ord. 2000-02, passed 1-
11-00; Am. Ord. 2004-004, passed 5-21-04; Am. Ord. 2004-010, passed 8-2-04)
Cross-reference:
   Utility Commission wholesale rates, see §
53.01
CHAPTER 52:  SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Purpose and policy
   
52.002   Definitions
   
52.003   Abbreviations
   
52.004   Damaging, destroying POTW prohibited
Use of Public Sewers
   
52.015   Mandatory sewer connection
   
52.016   Unlawful discharge to storm sewers or natural outlets
   
52.017   Compliance with local, state and federal laws
   
52.018   Discharge of unpolluted waters into sewer
   
52.019   Substances which interfere
Private Wastewater Disposal
   
52.030   Public sewer not available
   
52.031   Requirements for installation
Building Sewers and Connections
   
52.045   Permits
   
52.046   Prohibited connections
   
52.047   Design and installation
   
52.048   Inspection
Pollutant Discharge Limits
   
52.060   General conditions
   
52.061   Restricted discharges
   
52.062   Dilution of wastewater discharge
   
52.063   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
52.064   Special industrial pretreatment requirements
   
52.065   Protection from accidental discharge
   
52.066   Necessary equipment for observation of wastes
   
52.067   Industrial waste questionnaire
   
52.068   Submission of periodic analyses of wastewater
   
52.069   Notice of change in wastewater discharge
   
52.070   Measurements, tests and analyses
   
52.071   State requirements
   
52.072   City's right of revision
   
52.073   Federal categorical pretreatment standards; modification
   
52.074   Confidential information
Powers and Authority of Inspectors
   
52.085   Right to enter premises
   
52.086   Right to obtain information regarding discharge
   
52.087   Access to easements
   
52.088   Safety
Rates and Charges
   
52.100   Sewer service charges
   
52.101   Sewer rates
   
52.102   Surcharge rates
   
52.103   Formula for determining surcharges
   
52.104   Financial management system
   
52.105   Amendments
Enforcement; Violations
   
52.115   Harmful contributions; suspension of wastewater treatment service
   
52.116   Notice of violation
   
52.117   Continued violation
   
52.118   Show cause hearing
   
52.119   Legal action
   
52.120   Termination of service
   
52.121   Liability to city
   
52.122   Misrepresentation; falsifying documents
 
   
52.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Use of city property for sewer lines, see §
54.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001  PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the city
and enables the city to comply with all applicable state and federal laws
required by the Clean Water Act, latest revision, and the general Pretreatment
Regulations (40 CFR, Part 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are to:
      (1)   Prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   Prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated,
into receiving waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the
system; and
      (3)   Improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludges from the system.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the municipal wastewater system through enforcement of general
requirements for the users.
   (D)   This chapter shall apply to the city and to persons outside the city
who are, by contract or agreement with the city users of the city Publicly
Owned Treatment Works (POTW).  Except as otherwise provided herein, the
Paintsville Utility Commission shall administer, implement, and enforce the
provisions of this chapter. This chapter shall specifically apply to all users
of the Honey Branch Wastewater Treatment System.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87; Am. Ord. 2002-01, passed 06-11-02)
§ 52.002  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT.  The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 USC 1251, et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY.  The Secretary of the Kentucky Natural Resources and
Environmental Protection Cabinet or an authorized representative thereof.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. 
      (1)   An authorized representative of a user may be:
         (a)   A principal executive officer of at least the level of vice
president, if the industrial user is a corporation;
         (b)   A general partner or proprietor if the user is a partnership or
proprietorship, respectively; or
         (c)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated
above if such representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the indirect discharge originates.
      (2)   An authorized representative of the city may be any person
designated by the city to act on its behalf.
   AVAILABLE.  As used in connection with this chapter, means a public sewer
located at the property line or point at which connection may be made with the
city sanitary sewage collection facilities.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD).  The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure,
five days at 20° C. expressed in terms of weight and concentration in
milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN.  The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER.  The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal, also called “house connection.”
   BUILDING SEWER PERMIT.  As set forth in §§
52.045 et seq.
   CITY.  The City of Paintsville; its City Council or Commission; or the
Utility Commission or other entity having responsibility for the POTW.
   COMBINED SEWER.  Any conduit carrying both sanitary sewage and stormwater or
surface water.
   COMMISSION.  The Paintsville Utility Commission, as created by this chapter.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT.  Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids and fecal
coliform bacteria; plus any additional pollutants identified in the POTW's
NPDES/KPDES permit, where the POTW is designed to treat such pollutants and, in
fact, does treat such pollutants to the degree required by the POTW's NPDES/
KPDES permit.
   COMPOSITE WASTEWATER SAMPLE.  A combination of individual samples of water
or wastewater taken at selected intervals, generally hourly for some specified
period, to minimize the effect of variability of the individual sample. 
Individual samples may have equal volume or may be proportioned to the flow at
the time of the sampling.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY.  Shall refer to the term APPROVAL AUTHORITY defined
above.
   COOLING WATER.  The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT.  The Health Department for Johnson County and
shall be applicable to that county in which the applicant resides.
   DIRECT DISCHARGE.  The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly
to the waters of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   EASEMENT.  An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY, or EPA.  The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a designation for the
Administrator or other duly authorized official of the agency.
   EQUIPMENT.  All movable, nonfixed items necessary to the wastewater
treatment process.
   FEDERAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.  Federal regulations for pretreatment of
industrial wastewater under 40 CFR Parts 307, 402, 403, 405, and other
applicable regulations, as amended.
   FLOATABLE OIL.  Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility.  A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable oil if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the proper
operation of the collection system.
   GARBAGE.  The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and serving of foods.
   GRAB SAMPLE.  A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time
basis with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration
of time.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE.  Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks, and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT.  All pollutants other than compatible pollutants as
defined in COMBINED SEWER.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE.  The discharge or the introduction of nondomestic
pollutants from any source regulated under section 307(b) or (c) of the Act,
(33 USC 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into the
system).
   INDUSTRIAL USER.  A source of indirect discharge which does not constitute a
“discharge of pollutants” under regulations issued pursuant to Section 402, of
the Act (33 USC 1342).
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES.  The wastewater from industrial or commercial processes
as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   INTERCEPTOR.  A device designed and installed so as to separate and retain
deleterious, hazardous or undesirable matter from normal wastes while
permitting normal sewage or liquid wastes to discharge into the sewer system or
drainage system by gravity.  Interceptor as defined herein is commonly referred
to as a grease, oil, or sand trap.
   INTERFERENCE.  The inhibition or disruption of the POTW treatment processes
or operations or which contributes to a violation of any requirement of the
city's NPDES/KPDES permit.  The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use
or disposal by the POTW in accordance with 405 of the Act (33 USC 1345) or any
criteria, guidelines or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste
Disposal Act (SWDA), the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, or
more stringent state criteria (including those contained in any state sludge
management plan prepared pursuant to Title IV of SWDA) applicable to the method
of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
   MANAGER.  The person employed by the Utility Commission as Superintendent of
the entire municipal water and/or sewer system, or his authorized deputy, agent
or representative.  (See also, SUPERINTENDENT)
   MAXIMUM DAILY CONCENTRATION.  The maximum concentration of a pollutant based
on the analytical results obtained from a 24-hour composite sample.
   MULTI-UNIT SEWER CUSTOMER.  A location served where there are two or more
residential units or apartments, two or more businesses in the same building or
complex or where there is any combination of business and residence in the same
building or complex.
   NATIONAL (OR KENTUCKY) POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM or NPDES/KPDES
PERMIT.  A permit issued pursuant to Section 402 of the Act (33 USC 1332), or a
permit issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky under this authority and referred
to as KPDES.
   NATURAL OUTLET.  Any outlet, including storm sewers, into a water course,
pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or groundwater.
   NEW SOURCE.  Any source, the construction of which is commenced after the
publication of proposed regulations prescribing a Section 307(c) (33 USC 1317)
categorical pretreatment standard which will be applicable to such source, if
such standard is thereafter promulgated within 120 days of proposal in the
Federal Register.  Where the standard is promulgated later than 120 days after
proposal, a new source means any source, the construction of which is commenced
after the date of promulgation of the standard.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE [O&M] EXPENSES.  All annual operation and
maintenance expenses including replacement related directly to operating and
maintaining the sewage works as shown by annual audit.
   PERSON.  Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agent or
assigns.  The masculine gender shall include the feminine, the singular shall
include the plural where indicated by the context.
   pH.  The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration.  The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANT.  Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt and industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste discharged into
water.
   POLLUTION.  The manmade or man-induced alteration of the chemical, physical,
biological, and radiological integrity of water.
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT.  That portion of the POTW designed to provide
treatment to wastewater.
   PRETREATMENT OR TREATMENT.  The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of
discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW.  The
reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological
processes, or process changes other means, except as prohibited by 40 CFR
Section 403.6(d).
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS.  Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment, other than a National Pretreatment Standard imposed on
a significant user.
   PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD.  Any regulation developed under the
authority of 307(b) of the Act and 40 CFR, Section 403(5).
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE.  The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW).  A treatment works as defined by
Section 212 of the Act, (33 USC 1292) which is owned in this instance by the
city.  This definition includes any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant but does not include pipes, sewers, or other conveyances not
connected to a facility providing treatment.  For the purposes of this chapter,
“POTW” shall also include any sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from
persons outside the city who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users
of the city's POTW.
   PUBLIC SEWER.  A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.  In general, the public sewer shall include the main sewer in the
street and the service branch to the curb or property line, or a main sewer on
private property and the service branch to the extent of ownership by public
authority.
   REPLACEMENT.  Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
   SANITARY SEWER.  A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions.
   SEWAGE.  The spent water of a community.  Domestic or sanitary waste shall
mean the liquid or water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings
and institutions as distinct from industrial sewage.  The terms SEWAGE and
WASTEWATER are used interchangeably.
   SEWAGE SYSTEM or WORKS.  All facilities for collecting, transporting,
pumping, treating and disposing of sewage and sludge, namely the sewerage
system and POTW.
   SEWER.  A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SEWER USER CHARGES.  A system of charges levied on users of a POTW for the
cost of operation and maintenance, including replacement of such works.
   SIGNIFICANT USER.  Any user of the city's wastewater did system who has a
discharge flow of 25,000 gallons or more per average work day; has a flow
greater than 5% of the flow in the city's wastewater treatment system; has in
his wastes toxic pollutants as defined pursuant to Section 307 of the Act or
State Statutes and rules; or is found by the city, State Control Agency or the
U. S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to have significant impact, either
singly or in combination with other contributing users, on the wastewater
treatment system, the quality of sludge, the system's effluent quality, or air
emissions generated by the system.
   SLUDGE.  Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
or flow rate during normal operation and/or adversely affects the POTW.
   SPECIFICATIONS.  The Utilities Commission specifications for water and sewer
system design, construction and inspection, latest revision.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC).  A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the
President, U.S. Bureau of the Budget, 1972.
   STANDARD METHODS.  The examination and analytical procedures set forth in
the most recent edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation and
as set forth in the Congressional Record 40 CFR 136.
   STORM DRAIN (sometimes termed STORM SEWER).  A drain or sewer for conveying
water, groundwater, surface water, or unpolluted water from any source.
   STORMWATER.  Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SUPERINTENDENT.  The Superintendent of the Utility Commission and/or of
water pollution control of the city or his authorized deputy, agent, or
representative.  (See also, MANAGER)
   SURCHARGE.  A charge for services in addition to the basic sewer user and
debt service charges.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS).  Total suspended matter that either floats on the
surface of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater, other liquids, and that
is removable by laboratory filtering prescribed in Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water Wastewater and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT.  Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic
in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency under the provisions of CWA Section 307(a) or other Acts.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER.  Water of quality equal to or better than treatment works
effluent criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of
receiving water quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to
the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USER.  Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the POTW.
   USER CHARGE.  The charge levied on all users, including but not limited to,
persons, firms, corporations, or governmental entities that discharge, cause,
or permit the discharge of sewage into the POTW.
   WASTEWATER.  The spent water of a community.  Sanitary or domestic wastes
shall mean the liquid and water carried wastes from residences, commercial
buildings and institutions as distinct from industrial waste.
   WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMIT.  As set forth in §
52.115 of this chapter.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES.  The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS.  An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with WASTE TREATMENT PLANTor WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or WATER
POLLUTION CONTROL PLANTor SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT.
   WATERCOURSE.  A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water
either continuously or intermittently.
   WATERS OF THE STATE.  All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation system, drainage
system and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)
§ 52.003  ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:
   ADMI   —   American Dye Manufacturers Institute
   BOD   —   Biochemical oxygen demand
   CFR   —   Code of Federal Regulations
   CWA   —   Federal Clean Water Act, latest revision
   EPA   —   Environmental Protection Agency
   KPDES   —   Kentucky Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
   l      —   Liter
   mg      —   Milligrams
   mg/l   —   Milligrams per liter
   NPDES   —   National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
   POTW   —   Publicly Owned Treatment Works
   SIC   —   Standard Industrial Classification
   SWDA   —   Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 USC 6901, et seq.
   TSS   —   Total suspended solids
   USC   —   United States Code
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)
§ 52.004  DAMAGING, DESTROYING POTW PROHIBITED.
   No person shall intentionally or wantonly break, damage, destroy, uncover,
deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is part
of the POTW.  Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate
arrest under charge of criminal mischief.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)  Penalty, see §
52.999
Statutory reference:
   Criminal mischief, see KRS 512.020 through 512.040
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 52.015  MANDATORY SEWER CONNECTION.
   (A)   Sewer facilities.  The owner or developer of any property located
within the city limits of the city, now or in the future shall be subject to
the following requirements:
      (1)   The owner or developer of the property upon which an improvement
will be made for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purpose shall
be required to comply with the following:
         (a)   Provide a sanitary sewer to the property at the owner's or
developer's cost by implementing the sewer development plans and construction
standards on record at the Paintsville Utility Commission Office as well by
appropriate state regulatory offices.
         (b)   The owner or developer shall be responsible for the costs of
running the sewer facilities to the property from the existing sewer lines as
designated by the Paintsville Utilities Commission.
      (2)   The Paintsville Utilities Commission is hereby granted the
authority to review and approve installation of facilities pursuant to this
section.
         (a)   The Paintsville Utilities Commission shall have title of the
sewer facilities put in place by the owner or developer after the Commission
has approved the installation.
         (b)   The Paintsville Utilities Commission shall have the authority to
exempt out properties developed by an owner or developer where the burden would
make the development economically unsound based upon the following:
            1.   a.   Value of the property;
               b.   Costs of extending sewer facilities to the property;
               c.   Increase in value of property with sewer facilities; and
               d.   For purposes of the determination the property under
consideration shall consist not only of the subject property but property
adjacent thereto or in near proximity such that the sewer facilities will add
value thereto which at one time has been considered one tract within the last
60 years.
            2.   In the event the owner or developer disagrees with the
decision of the Paintsville Utilities Commission, an appeal of the decision
shall be made to the Paintsville City Council by notifying the City Clerk.
            3.   Any one aggrieved by a decision of the Paintsville Utility
Commission and the Paintsville City Council may file an action in the Johnson
Circuit Court.
         (c)   No building permit shall be issued until the Paintsville Utility
Commission grants approval of the plans and construction details by letter
which shall include sewage facilities.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
wastewater where public sanitary sewer service is available, as defined in
division (A) of this section, except as provided for in §§
52.030 and
52.031.  The existence within the city, wherever the services of the city
sanitary sewage collection, treatment and disposal facilities are available, or
may hereafter be made available (as the term AVAILABLEis defined), of septic
tanks, seepage laterals, privies, earth pits, cesspools, sanitary waste vaults,
sewage drainage fields, private sewage disposal systems, or any other such
facilities or works for the disposition of sanitary sewage wastes other than
the facilities of the city, is hereby declared to be a menace to the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens and inhabitants of the
city, and is hereby determined and declared to constitute a public nuisance. 
The existence of such facilities as toilets, sinks, wash basins, shower-baths,
bathtubs, any commercial or industrial machinery or device producing a liquid
waste product, and the like, in or upon any improved property or premises in
the city where the facilities of the city's sewage collection, treatment, and
disposal system are available, or may hereafter be made available, is similarly
declared to be a menace to the public health and general welfare of the city
and its inhabitants, unless such facilities are connected to the city sewage
collection, treatment and disposal system.  The city may prescribe the type and
manner of connection to the facilities, and may require that each connection be
supervised and inspected by an authorized and qualified agent of the Utilities
Commission.
   (C)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to
the public sewer system in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks,
cesspools and similar private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned
of sludge and filled with suitable material or salvaged and removed.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87; Am. Ord. 96-003, passed 6-11-96)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.016  UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE TO STORM SEWERS OR NATURAL OUTLETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city or into any sewer which
connects to the storm sewer system of the city, any objectionable wastewater or
industrial wastes.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any wastewater or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.  No provision of this
chapter shall be construed to relieve the owner of a discharge to any natural
outlet of the responsibility for complying with applicable state and federal
regulations governing such discharge.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.017  COMPLIANCE WITH LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL LAWS.
   The discharge of any wastewater into the public sewer system by any person
is unlawful except in compliance with the provisions of this chapter and any
more stringent state or federal standards promulgated pursuant to the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, the Clean Water Act of 1977 and
subsequent amendments.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)
§ 52.018  DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED WATERS INTO SEWER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged through any leak,
defect, or connection any unpolluted water such as stormwater, groundwater,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, or cooling water to any sanitary sewer,
building sewer, building drain or building plumbing.  The Superintendent or his
representative shall have the right, at any time, to inspect the inside or
outside of buildings or smoke test for connections, leaks, or defects to
building sewer and require disconnection or repair of any pipes carrying such
water to the building sewer.  Such waters shall not be removed through the dual
use of a sanitary drain sump or a sump pump to building sanitary sewer.  The
discharge of such waters by a manual switch-over from sanitary sewer to storm
drainage will not be an acceptable method of separation.  In cases where both
storm and sanitary sewage are present, separate drainage or pumping systems
shall be included.
   (B)   Stormwater, groundwater and all other unpolluted drainage may be
discharged to such sewers as are used as storm sewers approved by the
Superintendent.  Unpolluted cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be
discharged, on approval of the Superintendent to a storm sewer or natural
outlet.  Under no circumstances shall sanitary sewage be discharged to a storm
sewer.
   (C)   The owners of any building sewers having such connections, leaks, or
defects shall bear all costs incidental to removal of such sources.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.019  SUBSTANCES WHICH INTERFERE.
   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or indirectly,
any pollutant or wastewater which will interfere with the operation or
performance of the POTW.  These general prohibitions apply to all such users of
a POTW whether or not the user is subject to National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards or any other national, state, or local Pretreatment Standards or
Requirements.  A user shall not contribute the following substances to any
POTW:
   (A)   Liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or quantity
are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other substances
to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the POTW or to
the operation of the POTW.  At no time shall two successive readings on an
explosion hazard meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or at any
point in the system) be more than 5% nor any single reading over 10% of the
Lower Explosive Limit (LEL) of the meter.  Prohibited materials include, but
are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene,
ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates,
bromates, carbides, hydrides and any other substances which the city, the state
or EPA has notified the user is a fire hazard or a hazard to the system.
   (B)   Wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity, either
singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or interfere with any
wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create
a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the POTW, or to exceed the limitation
set forth in a Categorical Pretreatment Standard.  A toxic pollutant shall
include but not be limited to any pollutant identified pursuant to Section 307
(a) of the Act.
   (C)   Waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0 or higher than 9.0 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the POTW.
   (D)   Slug load or pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD,
and the like), released at a flow or concentration that will cause
interference.
   (E)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to,
ashes, bones, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings,
entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like, either whole or
ground; spent lime, stone or marble dust, grass clippings, spent grains, spent
hops, waste paper, gas, asphalt residues, unground garbage, residues from
refining or processing of fuel or lubricating oil, or glass grinding or
polishing wastes.
   (F)   Wastewater with objectionable color not removable in the POTW, but in
no case, wastewater with a color at the introduction into the POTW that exceeds
300 ADMI units.
   (G)   Wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological activity
in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the POTW that will
result in a treatment plant influent temperature which exceeds 104° F. (40°
C.).
   (H)   Wastewater at the introduction to the POTW with a temperature which
exceeds 150° F. (65° C.).
   (I)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids which either singly or
by interaction with other wastes are sufficient to create a public nuisance or
hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers for their
maintenance or repair.
   (J)   Any substance which may cause the POTW's effluent or any other product
of the POTW such as residues, sludges, or scum, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process where the
POTW is pursuing a reuse and reclamation program.  In no case shall a substance
discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance with sludge use or
disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under Section 405 of the
Act; any criteria, guidelines, or regulations affecting sludge use or disposal
developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the
Toxic Substances Control Act, or state criteria applicable to the sludge
management method being used.
   (K)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES/KPDES
and/or sludge disposal system permit or the receiving water quality standards.
   (L)   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-
life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the city in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
   (M)   Wastewater containing strong acids, iron pickling wastes, or
concentrated plating solutions.
   (N)   Wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a public
nuisance.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)  Penalty, see §
52.999
PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
§ 52.030  PUBLIC SEWER NOT AVAILABLE.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§§
52.015 et seq., the building sewer shall be connected, until the public sewer
system is available, to a private wastewater disposal system complying with the
provisions of applicable local and state regulations.
   (B)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.  When
it becomes necessary, the sludge may be disposed of only as approved by the
city, by operators licensed by the city for such purposes.
   (C)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by applicable
local or state regulations.
   (D)   Holders of NPDES/KPDES permits excepted.  Industries with current
NPDES/KPDES permits may discharge at permitted discharge points provided they
are in compliance with the conditions of the permit.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.031  REQUIREMENTS FOR INSTALLATION.
   (A)   The type, capacity, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all local or state regulations. Before commencement of
construction of a private sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain
a written permit issued by the Superintendent after approval of the system by
the local and state authorities if required.  The application for such permit
shall be made on a form furnished by the Superintendent which the applicant
shall supplement by any plans, specifications, and other information as are
deemed necessary by the Superintendent.
   (B)   A permit for private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the local and state
authorities, if required.  They shall be allowed to inspect the work at any
stage of construction, and in any event the applicant for the permit shall
notify the Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection and
before any underground portions are covered.  The inspection shall be made
within 48 hours of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent, Saturdays,
Sundays and holidays excepted.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued for any private wastewater disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than that required by the public health authority having jurisdiction.
   (D)   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)  Penalty, see §
52.999
BUILDING AND SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 52.045  PERMITS.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits required for
residential and for service to commercial and industrial establishments.  In
either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a special form
furnished by the city. Applicants for service to commercial and industrial
establishments shall be required to furnish information about all waste
producing activities, wastewater characteristics and constituents.  The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent. 
Details regarding commercial and industrial permits include but are not limited
to those required by this chapter.  Permit and inspection fees of $25 for a
residential or commercial building sewer permit and $50 for an industrial
building sewer permit shall be paid to the city at the time the application is
filed.
   (B)   Users shall notify the Superintendent of any proposed new introduction
of wastewater constituents or any proposed substantial change in the volume or
character of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the POTW.
   (C)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, plug or make, any connections
with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance
thereof without first obtaining a written permission from the Superintendent.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.046  PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, basement wall
seepage or floor seepage, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or other
sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain
which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. 
Any such connections which already exist on the effective date of this chapter
shall be completely and permanently disconnected within 60 days of the
effective date of this chapter.  The owners of any building sewers having such
connections, leaks or defects shall bear all costs incidental to removal of
such sources.  Pipes, sumps and pumps for such sources of ground and surface
water shall be separate from wastewater facilities.  Removal of such sources of
water without presence of separate facilities shall be evidence of drainage to
public sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Floor, basement or crawl space drains which are lower than ground
surfaces surrounding the building shall not be connected to the building
sanitary sewer.  No sanitary inlet which is lower than six inches above the top
of the lowest of the two adjacent public sanitary sewer manholes shall be
connected by direct drainage to the building sanitary sewer.  The city does not
and will not assume any obligation or responsibility for damage of any kind or
nature, caused by or resulting from any sewer connection made in violation of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.047  DESIGN AND INSTALLATION.
   (A)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where on building stands at the rear of another on an interior
lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, courtyard, or driveway, the sewer from the
front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as
one building sewer, but the city does not and will not assume any obligation or
responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such single
connection aforementioned.
   (B)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.  Permit and inspection fees and tap-on fees for
new buildings using existing building sewers shall be the same as for new
building sewers.  If additional sewer consumers or additional facilities are
added to the old building sewers, additional sewer tap fees shall be charged
accordingly even though no new sewer tap is actually made into the POTW.
   (C)   Extension of customer service lines from any point on the customers
side of the tap for delivery of wastes from any location other than that of the
customer in whose name the tap is registered shall not be permitted.
   (D)   The building sewer shall be cast iron soil pipe, ASTM A-74, latest
revision, PVC (polyvinyl- chloride) sewer pipe, ASTM D-3034, latest revision,
unglazed clay sewer pipe, ASTM C-261, latest revision, vitrified clay sewer
pipe, ASTM C-7000, latest revision, or ductile iron pipe, AWWA Specification C-
151 cement lined, and shall meet requirements of the state plumbing code. 
Joints shall be as set out hereinafter.  Any part of the building sewer that is
located within five feet of a water service pipe shall be constructed with cast
iron soil pipe or ductile iron pipe, unless the building sewer is at least one
foot deeper in the ground than the water service line.  In the latter case,
vitrified clay pipe may be used.  Cast iron soil pipe or ductile iron pipe may
be required by the Superintendent where the building sewer is exposed to damage
or shall be used in filled or unstable ground, in area where the cover over the
building sewer is less than three feet, or in areas where the sewer is subject
to vehicular or other external loads.
   (E)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the local and state building and plumbing codes and other applicable rules and
regulations of the city.  In general, the building sewer shall not be less than
four inches in diameter.  The slope of the building sewer shall in no event be
less than one-eighth inch per foot.
   (F)   In the absence of local code provisions or in amplification thereof,
the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
ASTM and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (G)   No building sewer shall be laid parallel to within three feet of any
bearing wall which might thereby be weakened.  The depth shall be sufficient to
afford 24 inches of cover over pipe except where exposed to vehicular traffic. 
Portions of the building sewer subject to vehicular traffic shall have a
minimum cover of 36 inches, or be encased in a six-inch envelope of concrete. 
The building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade and in straight alignment
insofar as possible.
   (H)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owners.  The owners shall indemnify
the city for any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer.  Fees for connection shall be as
established by the city.
   (I)   The owner shall ensure that all excavations for building sewer
installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to
protect the public from hazard.  Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public
property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner
satisfactory to the city.
   (J)   In all buildings in which any sanitary facility drain is too low to
permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain
shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building sewer. 
Drain pipe and sump for collection of such sanitary drainage shall be above
basement floor or in separately watertight or drained sump or channel.
   (K)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the Superintendent, and
all such trenches shall be kept open until the pipe has been inspected, tested
and approved by the Superintendent. Except where bends are supplied, trenches
shall be straight in direction and grade to accommodate prefabricated joints. 
Trenches shall be at least 20 inches wide opposite center line of the pipe. 
Building sanitary sewers laid in undisturbed ground must be laid on at least
six inches of pea gravel, sand, or other approved grillage to support the
pipe.  The trench shall be filled with the same approved grillage on each side
of the pipe and six inches over same.  Building sewers laid in mud or filled
ground shall be embedded to lower quadrant with at least a four-inch concrete
pad below the invert or other support that may be considered necessary. 
Backfill shall be carefully tamped in and around pipe in not over four-inch
layers to top of pipe for proper support. Backfill shall be solidly tamped
above the pipe and hand placed up to 18 inches above the pipe.  No backfill
shall be placed over the pipe until the pipe laying has been inspected by the
Superintendent or its duly authorized agent.
   (L)   All joints and connections shall be made gas-tight and watertight.
Joints for cast iron soil pipe and fittings with hubs and plain end spigots
shall be made with caulked lead and oakum as specified in Chapter 4, ASA A40.8,
or by using positive double-seal elastomeric compression-type gaskets
conforming to ASTM C-564.  Service pipe shall be joined with service gaskets
and extra heavy pipe with extra heavy gaskets.  All joints between vitrified
clay pipe and other approved pipe shall be made with an approved prefabricated
rubber or plastic material conforming to ASTM Specification C-425, latest
revision, and installed clean and uninjured by handling or weather according to
manufacturers' direction, completely “homed” into place.  The vitrified clay
sewer pipe shall be jointed with compressed watertight rubber rings meeting
ASTM Specification D-1869, latest revision, and installed clean, according to
manufacturers' directions.  The ductile iron pipe shall be joined together with
watertight rubber gaskets in accordance with the manufacturers' directions. 
The PVC pipe joints shall conform to ASTM D-3212, latest revision, and
elastomeric gaskets to ASTM F477.
   (M) The building sewer shall be connected into the public sewer at the
easement or property line.  Where no properly located service branch is
available, an authorized agent of the city shall cut a neat hole into the man
line of the public sewer and a suitable wye or tee saddle installed to receive
the building sewer. The invert of the building sewer at such point of
connection with a saddle shall be in the upper quadrant of the main line of the
public sewer.  A neat workmanlike connection not extending past the inner
surface of the public sewer shall be made and the saddle made secure and
watertight by encasement in epoxy cement specially pre pared for this purpose. 
A wye and H bend fitting shall be installed at the property line between the
public sewer and the building sewer.  This fitting shall serve the purpose of a
cleanout and for applying the smoke test during inspection of the line.  After
testing, a cast iron or ductile iron riser will be inserted in this fitting and
brought flush with the ground surface.  A stopper or plug, outfitted with a
type joint applicable to the pipe used, shall seal this riser against the
intrusion of ground or surface water.
   (N)   All building sanitary sewer lines will be installed so as to meet or
exceed the most current revision of the State Plumbing Code.
   (O)   All persons working on city sewers with a cleaning rod must use an
approved type rod in cleaning sewer connections to city sewers.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.048  INSPECTION.
   (A)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer.  The connection and testing shall be made under the
supervision of the Superintendent or his representative.  All connections shall
be made gas-tight and watertight and verified by proper testing.  Any deviation
from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent before installation.
   (B)   All building sewers shall be smoke tested through the wye branch at
the public sewer connection, or low pressure air tested per ASTM C-828-08 or
latest revision, with public sewer tightly plugged off, after connections at
both ends are made and after all pipe is properly bedded and backfilled at
least to top of pipe and if backfill is completed, within two weeks after
completion of backfill.  At time of test any openings into the building drain
inside the building shall be water trapped or plugged.  Any leakage of smoke
from building sewer or building drain and plumbing shall be located at test and
repaired to stand repetition of smoke test without leakage.  When smoke testing
is completed, the temporary flow line plug shall be removed and a permanent
water tight plug shall be placed in branch of test wye-branch and carefully
backfilled by hand and tamped to at least six inches above the top of the
branch.  The Superintendent shall determine the method of testing to be
performed.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)  Penalty, see §
52.999
POLLUTANT DISCHARGE LIMITS
§ 52.060  GENERAL CONDITIONS.
   The following described substances, materials, waters, or waste shall be
limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process or
equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or will not
otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance.  The
Superintendent may set additional limitations or limitations more stringent
than those established in the regulations below if in his opinion such more
severe limitations are necessary to meet the above objectives.  In forming his
opinion as to the acceptability, the Superintendent shall give consideration to
such factors as the quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and
velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, the
wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment
plant, and other pertinent factors.  The limitations or restrictions on
materials or characteristics of waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary
sewer shall not be violated without written approval of the Superintendent.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)
§ 52.061  RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
   The following discharges are restricted:
   (A)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of petroleum
oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils, or products of mineral oil origin.
   (B)   Wastewater from industrial plants or commercial businesses containing
floatable oils, fat, or grease, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100
milligrams per liter or containing substances which may solidify or become
viscous at temperatures 32° to 150° F. (0° to 65° C.).
   (C)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded.  Garbage grinders may
be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, motels, institutions, restaurants,
hospitals, catering establishments, or similar places where garbage originates
from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the
premises or when served by caterers.  The installation and operation of any
garbage grinder equipped with a 3/4 HP motor or greater shall be subject to
review and approval.
   (D)   Any waters or wastes containing odor-producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the Superintendent.
   (E)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations.
   (F)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or wastes
in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended solids
which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition deleterious
to structures and treatment processes.
   (G)   Any waters or wastes containing cadmium, chromium, copper, cyanide,
iron, lead, nickel, zinc or similar objectionable or toxic substances to such
degree that they inhibit or damage the wastewater treatment processes, or tend
to concentrate in the wastewater sludge to such a level that prevents the use
of acceptable sludge disposal methods, or pass through the treatment process
unremoved and at such concentration that causes a violation of effluent
limitations or water quality standards which are or may be established by state
and federal agencies having jurisdiction.  The Superintendent may establish
actual numerical limitations for such toxic or objectionable substances to
accomplish this objective.  The Superintendent may also amend such numerical
limitations as necessary to assure compliance with state and federal
regulations.
   (H)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
   (I)   Any water or waste which has characteristics based on a 24-hour
composite sample, or a shorter period composite sample if more representative
which exceed the following normal maximum domestic wastewater parameter
concentrations:
 
Parameter Maximum Allowable Concentration Without Surcharge
BOD       250 mg/l
TSS       300 mg/l
NH3-N     25 mg/l
 
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.062  DILUTION OF WASTEWATER DISCHARGE.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the Federal
Categorical Pretreatment Standards, or in any other pollutant specific
limitation developed by the city or state.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.063  GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units.  All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.  In the
maintaining of these interceptors the owner shall be responsible for the proper
removal and disposal by appropriate means of the captured material and shall
maintain records of the dates, and means of disposal.  The city may require
reporting of such information for their review.  Any removal and hauling of the
collected materials not performed by owner personnel must be performed by
currently licensed waste disposal firms, interceptors shall also comply with
applicable regulations of the County Health Department.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)
§ 52.064  SPECIAL INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Pursuant to the requirements imposed on publicly owned
wastewater treatment works by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
Amendments of 1972 and later amendments, all pretreatment standards promulgated
by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for new and existing industrial
dischargers to public sewer systems are made a part of this chapter.  Any
industrial waste discharge which violates these EPA Pretreatment Standards
shall be in violation of this chapter.
      (2)   Federal and state pre-treatment program shall not prevent the city
from establishing more stringent pretreatment standards which may be dictated
by local conditions. The city now adopts its own pretreatment program and makes
it a part of the Code of Ordinances which is styled "Paintsville Utility
Pretreatment Program."
         (a)   Paintsville Utilities Commission, by and through its General
Manager, shall provide the necessary applications, permits and verification
forms to be utilized by industrial users of the waste water systems of the city
and shall promulgate the necessary regulations in reference to pretreatment
monitoring and enforcement. The initial fees for the funding of the
pretreatment enforcement program will be a $4,000 permit and renewal
application fee and annual monitoring fee of $2,000.
         (b)   Local limits for the pretreatment program shall be designated by
the Paintsville Utility Commission and may change from time to time based upon
local conditions. Initially, the local limits shall be those set out in the
Paintsville Utilities Pretreatment Program, Section No. 6, Local Limits.
   (B)   Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to
comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all Federal
Categorical Pretreatment Standards within the time limitations as specified by
the Federal Pretreatment Regulations.  Any facilities required to pretreat
wastewater to a level acceptable to the city shall be provided, operated, and
maintained at the user's expense.  Detailed plans showing the treatment
facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the city for review,
and shall be acceptable to the city before construction of the facility.  The
review of such plans and operating procedures will in no way relieve the user
from the responsibility of modifying the facility as needed to produce an
effluent acceptable to the city under the provisions of this chapter.  Any
subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall
be reported to and be acceptable to the city prior to the user's initiation of
the changes.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who transports septic tank, seepage pit or cesspool
contents, liquid industrial waste or other batch liquid waste and wishes to
discharge such waste to the public sewer system shall first obtain permission
for such discharge from the Superintendent.  All persons receiving such
permission shall abide by all applicable provisions of this chapter and any
other special provisions that may be established by the Superintendent as
necessary for the proper operation and maintenance of the sewerage system.
      (2)   It shall be illegal to discharge any batch liquid waste into any
manhole or other part of the public sewer system, or any building sewer or
other facility that discharges to the public sewer system, except at designated
points of discharge specified by the Superintendent for such purposes.
      (3)   Waste haulers who have been granted permission to discharge to the
public sewer system shall pay fees for such discharge in accordance with a fee
schedule established by the Superintendent and approved by the city.
      (4)   It shall be illegal to discharge any batch liquid waste into any
manhole or other part of the public sewer system, or any building sewer or
other facility that discharges to the public sewer system, except at designated
points of discharge by the Superintendent for such purposes.
      (5)   Any liquid waste hauler illegally discharging to the public sewer
system shall be subject to immediate revocation of discharge privileges (if
granted) and further subject to the penalties prescribed in §§
52.120 through
52.122.
      (6)   Nothing in this chapter shall relieve waste haulers of the
responsibility for compliance with County Health Department, state or federal
regulations.
   (D)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the city for treatment provided applicable, local, State and
Federal Pretreatment Regulations or the NPDES/KPDES Permit are not violated.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87; Am. Ord. 2003-013, passed 11-11-03)  Penalty, see
§
52.999
§ 52.065  PROTECTION FROM ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Each significant user shall provide protection from accidental
discharge of prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this
chapter.  Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials
shall be provided and maintained at the owner or user's own cost and expense. 
In the case of an accidental discharge, it is the responsibility of the user to
immediately telephone and notify the POTW of the incident.  The notification
shall include location of discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume,
and corrective actions.
   (B)   Written notice.  Within five days following an accidental discharge,
the user shall submit to the city a detailed written report describing the
cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences.  Such notification shall not relieve the user of
any expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result
of damage to the POTW, fish kills, or any other damage to person or property;
nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, civil penalties, or
other liability which may be imposed by this subchapter or other applicable
law.
   (C)   Notice to employees.  A notice shall be permanently posted on the
user's bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees whom to call
in the event of a dangerous discharge.  Employers shall insure that all
employees who may cause or suffer such a dangerous discharge to occur are
advised of the emergency notification procedure.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.066  NECESSARY EQUIPMENT FOR OBSERVATION OF WASTES.
   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure
together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building
sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the wastes.  Such
structure, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located and shall be
constructed in accordance with plans which have been approved by the
Superintendent.  The structure shall be installed by the owner at his expense
and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.067  INDUSTRIAL WASTE QUESTIONNAIRE.
   (A)   Within 60 days after the effective date of this chapter, all existing
industrial users of the public sewer system shall complete an industrial waste
questionnaire which may be obtained from the Superintendent.  Information to be
furnished on the questionnaire shall include, but is not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Wastewater discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period.
      (2)   Chemical analyses of wastewaters.
      (3)   Information on raw materials, processes, and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality.
      (4)   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent,
or other materials important to sewer use control.
      (5)   A plot plan of sewers of the user's property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location.
      (6)   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities.
      (7)   Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the public sewer.
   (B)   All costs associated with completion of such questionnaires shall be
borne by the industrial user.  The Superintendent may require resubmission of
completed updated questionnaires from any industry on an annual basis, unless
required more often by state and federal regulations.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.068  SUBMISSION OF PERIODIC ANALYSES OF WASTEWATER.
   The Superintendent may require any industrial user to submit periodic
analyses of wastewater characteristics to the city, for purposes of determining
compliance with this chapter or state and federal regulations.  Cost of such
analyses and reporting to the city shall be borne by the industrial user.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)
§ 52.069  NOTICE OF CHANGE IN WASTEWATER DISCHARGE.
   All industrial users of the public sewer system are required to file a
written notice with the Superintendent of any proposed significant change in
the volume, character, or constituents of their wastewater discharge.  Such
notice shall be filed at least 90 days prior to the proposed change data.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.070  MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES.
   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association. 
Sampling methods, location, times, durations, frequencies, and record keeping
procedures are to be determined on an individual basis and approved by the
Superintendent.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)
§ 52.071  STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this chapter.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)
§ 52.072  CITY'S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The city reserves the right at the recommendation of the Utilities
Commission to establish by majority vote of its commissioners, more stringent
limitations or requirements on discharges to the POTW if deemed necessary to
comply with the objectives presented in this chapter.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)
§ 52.073  FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS; MODIFICATION.
   (A)   Upon the promulgation of the Federal Categorical Pretreatment
Standards for a particular industrial subcategory, the federal standard, if
more stringent than limitations imposed under this chapter for sources in that
subcategory, shall immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this
chapter.  The city shall notify all affected users of the applicable reporting
requirements under 40 CFR, Section 403.12.
   (B)   Where the city's wastewater treatment system achieves consistent
removal of pollutants limited by Federal Pretreatment Standards, the city may
apply to the Approval Authority for modification of specific limits in the
Federal Pretreatment Standards.  CONSISTENT REMOVALshall mean reduction in the
amount of a pollutant or alteration of the nature of the pollutant by the
wastewater treatment system to a less toxic or harmless state in the effluent
which is achieved by the system in 95% of the samples taken when measured
according to the procedures set forth in Section 403(7)(c)(2) of (Title 40 of
the Code of Federal Regulations, Part 403) “General Pretreatment Regulations
for Existing and New Sources of Pollution,” promulgated pursuant to the Act. 
The city may modify pollutant discharge limits in the Federal Pretreatment
Standards if the requirements contained in 40 CFR, Part 403, Section 403(7),
are fulfilled and prior approval from the Approval Authority is obtained.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)
§ 52.074  CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections shall
be available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction
unless the user specifically requests in writing and is able to demonstrate to
the satisfaction of the city that the release of such information would divulge
information, processes, or methods of production entitled to protection as
trade secrets of the user.
   (B)   When requested, in writing, by the person furnishing a report, the
portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes
shall not be available for inspection by the public but shall be made available
upon written request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter,
the NPDES/KPDES Permit, Sludge Disposal System Permit, and/or the state and
federal pretreatment regulations; provided, however, that such portions of a
report shall be available for use by the state or any state agency in judicial
review or enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report. 
Wastewater constituents and characteristics shall not be recognized as
confidential information.  Information accepted by the city as confidential,
shall not be transmitted to any governmental agency or to the general public by
the city until and unless a ten-day notification is given to the user.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)
POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
§ 52.085  RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees and representatives
of the city and authorized representatives of applicable federal and state
regulatory agencies bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, and testing pertinent to discharges to the public sewer
system in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)
§ 52.086  RIGHT TO OBTAIN INFORMATION REGARDING DISCHARGE.
   Duly authorized employees and representatives are authorized to obtain
information concerning character, strength and quantity of industrial wastes
which have a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the
wastewater collection system.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)
§ 52.087  ACCESS TO EASEMENTS.
   Duly authorized employees and representatives of the city bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within the easement.  All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the
easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated
easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)
§ 52.088  SAFETY.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
52.085, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the Commission shall
observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company,
and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the Commission
employees, and the Commission shall indemnify the company against loss or
damage to its property by Commission employees and against liability claims and
demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and
growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused
by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.100  SEWER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   Sewer service charges shall be charges levied on all users who
discharge, cause or permit the discharge of sewage into the public sewage
treatment system.
   (B)   Sewer service charges shall be comprised of a system of user charges,
excessive strength surcharges and a system of charges for debt service.
   (C)   User charges shall mean charges levied on users of the sewage system
to offset the cost of operations and maintenance of the system including normal
replacement costs.
   (D)   Excessive strength surcharges shall mean charges levied on users of
the sewage treatment system whose contribution contains biological oxygen
demand (BOD), suspended solids (SS) or ammonia nitrogen (NH3-N) in
concentrations which exceed limits specified herein for such pollutants and who
are permitted to make such contributions to the system by decision of the
Manager of the Utilities Commission.
   (E)   Charges for debt service shall mean charges levied on users of the
sewage treatment system to support the annual debt service obligations of the
system.
(Ord. 86-07, passed 7-1-86)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.101  SEWER RATES.
   (A)   Effective May 1, 2017, the following table rates shall apply to each
user of the sewage treatment system.  This table includes rates for user
charges based on the volume of metered or estimated water consumption:
Water Consumption Inside Rate (per 1,000 gallons) Outside Rate (per 1,000
                                                  gallons)
Water Consumption              Inside Rate (per 1,000 Outside Rate (per 1,000
                               gallons)               gallons)
First 2,000 gallons per month  $ 16.82                $ 16.82
Next 3,000 gallons per month   8.04                   8.04
Next 5,000 gallons per month   8.04                   8.04
Next 15,000 gallons per month  7.98                   7.98
Next 25,000 gallons per month  7.98                   7.98
Next 50,000 gallons per month  7.98                   7.98
Over 100,000 gallons per month 6.77                   6.77
 
   (B)   Normal monthly billings for sewer service shall be determined on the
basis of each user’s metered water consumption and rates provided by division
(A) of this section.  It is recognized in the assessment of such charges that
not all metered water consumption is returned to the sewers.  For the purpose
of assessing service charges equitably, the average percentage of metered water
consumption returned to the sewer is deemed to be 90%.  Where it can be
evidenced that the proportion of metered water consumption actually returned to
the treatment system by an individual customer is significantly different from
90% service charges shall be determined on the basis of actual wastewater
discharge.  In this event, the volume of wastewater discharge shall be,
determined by using additional water meters to segregate water consumption that
is returned to the sewers and/or actual metering of wastewater flows and/or any
other procedure agreed upon by the user and Manager of the Paintsville
Utilities Commission as a reasonable method of determining flows.  The city
reserves the right to require the installation of additional water meters and/
or wastewater flow meters for the purpose of determining actual monthly
wastewater flows.
   (C)   There shall be a yearly adjustment of sewer rates effective March 1,
2019 and each March 1 thereafter based upon the Consumer Price Index as
published by the Wall Street Journal. The sewer rates shall be adjusted
according to that Consumer Price Index and shall be placed on the April billing
and each month thereafter.
(Ord. 86-07, passed 7-1-86; Am. Ord. 89-07, passed 10-10-89; Am. Ord. 92-002,
passed 1-28-92; Am. Ord. 2004-005, passed 5-21-04; Am. Ord. 2004-009, passed 8-
2-04; Am. Ord. 2017-003, passed 4-13-17)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.102  SURCHARGE RATES.
   (A)   In the event that the Manager shall permit a user to discharge wastes
to the sewage works having an average biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) content
in excess of 250 mg/l, and/or an average suspended solids (SS) content in
excess of 250 mg/l, and/or an average ammonia nitrogen (NH3-N) content in
excess of 25 mg/l, the user shall pay a surcharge based upon the excess
strength of its wastes.
   (B)   The following surcharge rates shall apply to each user of the sewage
works that has received permission from the Manager to contribute excessive
strength sewage.
 
Surcharge Rates
BOD   $ .20 per pound
SS      .20 per pound
NH3-N   .79 per pound
 
(Ord. 86-07, passed 7-1-86)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.103  FORMULA FOR DETERMINING SURCHARGES.
   (A)   The excessive strength surcharge shall be based on the following
formula, with the total applied to the monthly bill of affected users:
      (1)   (A(D-250) + B(E-250) + C(F-25)) × .00834 × G - Surcharge Payment
($/month)
      (2)   Where formula components are as follows:
         (a)   Surcharge, rate for BOD, in $/pound.
         (b)   Surcharge rate for SS, in $/pound.
         (c)   Surcharge rate for NH3-N, in $/pound.
         (d)   User's average BOD concentration, in mg/l.
         (e)   User's average SS concentration, in mg/l.
         (f)   User's average NH3-N concentration, in mg/l.
         (g)   User's monthly flow to sewage works, in 1,000 gallons.
   (B)   No reduction in sewage service charges, fees, or taxes shall be
permitted because of the fact that certain wastes discharged to the sewage
works contain less than 250 mg/l of BOD, 250 mg/l of SS or 25 mg/l of NH3-N.
   (C)   Each user shall be notified, at least annually, in conjunction with a
regular bill of the rate and that portion of the total charge which is
attributable to operations and maintenance of the sewage system.
(Ord. 86-07, passed 7-1-86)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.104  FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   The city, through the Utility Commission, shall maintain financial
records to accurately account for revenues generated by the treatment system
and expenditures for operation and maintenance of the system, including normal
replacement costs.
   (B)   The city shall review not less often than annually the sewage-
contribution of users, the total cost of operation and maintenance of the
sewage works, debt service obligations, and sewer service charges.  Based on
such review, the city shall revise, when necessary, the schedule of sewer
service charges to accomplish the following:
      (1)   Maintain an equitable distribution of operations and maintenance
costs among user of the treatment system; and
      (2)   Generate sufficient revenues to offset costs associated with the
proper operation and maintenance of the sewage system, including normal
replacement costs, and to meet debt service requirements.
   (C)   Excessive strength surcharges snail be reviewed at the time of and in
conjunction with the review of sewer service charges.  Surcharge rates shall be
revised where necessary to reflect current treatment and monitoring costs.
(Ord. 86-07, passed 7-1-86) 
§ 52.105  AMENDMENTS.
   This subchapter shall be amended, as necessary, to comply with federal
regulations.
(Ord. 86-07, passed 7-1-86)
Cross-reference:
   Utility Commission wholesale rates, §
53.01
ENFORCEMENT; VIOLATIONS
§ 52.115  HARMFUL CONTRIBUTIONS; SUSPENSION OF WASTEWATER TREATMENT SERVICE.
   (A)   The city may suspend the wastewater treatment service when such
suspension is necessary, in the opinion of the city, in order to stop an actual
or threatened discharge which presents or may present an imminent or
substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons, to the
environment, causes interference to the POTW or causes the city to violate any
condition of its NPDES/KPDES Permit.
   (B)   Any person notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service shall immediately stop or eliminate the contribution.  In the event of
a failure of the person to comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the
city shall take such steps as deemed necessary including immediate severance of
the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW system or
endangerment to any individuals.  The city shall reinstate the wastewater
treatment service upon proof of the elimination of the noncomplying discharge. 
A detailed written statement submitted by the user describing the causes of the
harmful contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence
shall be submitted to the city within 15 days of the date of occurrence.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.116  NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except
§
52.119, shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof.  The offender shall within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violation.
   (B)   The city is required by federal regulation to keep the public informed
of all cases of significant violation.  To accomplish this the city shall
annually publish in a newspaper of local circulation a list of the users which
were not in compliance with any Pretreatment Requirements or Standards at least
once during the 12 previous months.  A significant violation shall meet one or
more of the following conditions:
      (1)   Results in the exercise of emergency authority;
      (2)   Remains uncorrected 45 days after notice of noncompliance is given;
and
      (3)   Involves failure to report accurately.
   (C)   The notification shall also summarize any enforcement actions taken
against the user during the same 12 months.
   (D)   All records relating to compliance with Pretreatment Standards shall
be made available to officials of the EPA or Approval Authority upon request.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.117  CONTINUED VIOLATION.
   Any person who will continue any violation beyond the time limit provided
for shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined in accordance with §
52.999.  Each day in which such violation shall continue shall be deemed a
separate offense.  In addition to the penalties provided herein, the city may
recover reasonable attorney's fees, court costs, court reporter's fees and
other expenses of litigation by appropriate suit at law against the person
found to have violated this chapter or the orders, rules, regulations, and
permits issued under this chapter.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.118  SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   The city may order any user who causes or allows an unauthorized
discharge to show cause before the city why the proposed enforcement action
should not be taken.  A notice shall be served on the user specifying the time
and place of a hearing to be held by the city regarding the violation, the
reasons why the action is to be taken, the proposed enforcement action, and
directing the user to show cause before the city why the proposed enforcement
action should not be taken.  The notice of the hearing shall be served
personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) at
least ten days before the hearing.  Service may be made on any agent or officer
of a corporation.
   (B)   The city may itself conduct the hearing and take the evidence, or may
designate a representative to:
      (1)   Issue in the name of the city notices of hearings requesting the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence relevant
to any matter involved in such hearings;
      (2)   Take the evidence; and
      (3)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the city for
action thereon.
   (C)   At any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, testimony taken must be
under oath and recorded stenographically.  The transcript, so recorded, will be
made available to any member of the public or any party to the hearing upon
payment of the usual charges thereof.
   (D)   After the city has reviewed the evidence, it may issue an order to the
user responsible for the discharge directing that, following a specified time
period, the sewer service be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities,
devices, or other related appurtenance are properly operated.  Further orders
and directives as are necessary and appropriate may be issued.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.119  LEGAL ACTION.
   If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes into the
city's wastewater disposal system contrary to the provisions of this chapter,
Federal or State Pretreatment Requirements or any order of the city, the city
may commence an action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief in the
appropriate court of this jurisdiction.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.120  TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to termination of its authority to discharge sewage into the city system upon a
determination pursuant to the terms of this chapter that such violation
currently exists and is of a continuing nature.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87) 
§ 52.121  LIABILITY TO CITY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the city by
reason of such violation.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)
§ 52.122  MISREPRESENTATION; FALSIFYING DOCUMENTS.
   Any person who knowingly makes any false statements, representation or
certification of any application, record, report, plan or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter, or who falsifies,
tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method
required under this chapter shall be subject to a penalty as provided in §
52.999.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)
§ 52.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in §
52.116 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof shall be
fined in an amount not exceeding $500 for each violation.  Each day in which
such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
52.122 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be punished
by a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment for not more than 12 months,
or by both.
(Ord. 87-10, passed 11-10-87)
CHAPTER 53:  UTILITIES
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Utility Commission wholesale rates
Utility Commission
   
53.15   Powers, duties and responsibilites
   
53.16   Commissioners
   
53.17   Employment of General Manager; compensation
   
53.18   Duties of the General Manager
   
53.19   Other supervisory personnel
   
53.20   Rates; collections
   
53.21   Purchases; contracts; self-dealing
   
53.22   Reports; audits
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01  UTILITY COMMISSION WHOLESALE RATES.
   The Utility Commission wholesale rate shall be $1.35 per 1,000 gallons.
(Ord. 85-07, passed 7-2-85) 
UTILITY COMMISSION
§ 53.15  POWERS, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Paintsville Utilities Commission
(hereinafter "Commission") to supervise, manage and control the municipal
water, waste water and natural gas production, purchase and distribution
systems and to do so in a fiscally sound way consistent with the essential
service and safety needs of the residential and commercial consumers of the
city utilities, whether said consumers shall be situated within the city limits
or consumers of the former Johnson County Water District or extensions thereof.
   (B)   The Commission shall be responsible for the collection, deposit and
expenditure of all funds constituting, directly or indirectly, income or
revenues of both systems, including a complete and professional accounting of
same, consistent with pertinent ordinances, and statutory and regulatory
requirements, as well as the maintenance, operation and extension of the
systems.
   (C)   The Commission shall meet once each month at a regular date and time
of its choosing, consistent with the convenience of the public.
   (D)   The Commission shall, upon the recommendation of the General Manager
and consistent with equal opportunity employment statutes, laws and
regulations, approve or, for just cause, reject employment and promotion
recommendations and establish salary and hourly rates of pay for all employees
of the Commission. Such salaries and rates of pay shall be based upon pay
scales and job descriptions adopted and published by the Commission and made
available to all employees of the Commission.
(Ord. passed 10-3-50; Am. Ord. 2003-008, passed 5-22-03)
§ 53.16  COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   Number of commissioners. The Commission shall be comprised of five
commissioners.
   (B)   Appointment of commissioners; qualifications; terms; removal.
Commissioners shall be nominated by the Mayor, for approval by the City
Council, and may be removed for just cause by the City Council. Commissioners
may be brought before the City Council for removal by recommendation of a City
Council member or the Mayor. Four of the commissioners shall either be
residents of the city, or that they, on a full-time basis, conduct or are
employed in a business, trade or profession with the city, and one may be
residents of the county outside the city limits who reside in an area serviced
by Paintsville Utilities. Each Commissioner's appointment shall be for a term
of four years, unless said appointment is for the balance of an unexpired term,
and shall be staggered in such a way that the terms of no more than two
commissioners shall expire within the same year. Commissioners may be re-
appointed to one or more successive terms by the Mayor, with consent of the
City Council. Each Commissioner shall serve a four-year term unless he or she
shall become disqualified by residency, by statutory conflict of office or
conflict of interest, by violation of the city's code of ethics, be convicted
of a felony or other just cause. Upon request of the member in question, he or
she shall be granted a public hearing before the Mayor and City Council during
which no other business shall be conducted.
   (C)   Vacancies on Commission. In the event of a vacancy on the Commission,
either by death, resignation or dismissal, said vacancy shall be filled by
appointment of the Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, for the balance
of the former member's term.
   (D)   Compensation of commissioners. Each commissioner shall be compensated
monthly for his or her service to the city and the Commission. The rate of
monthly compensation shall be $25 but may be increased or decreased upon
request to the City Council by the Commission or by independent action of the
City Council.
   (E)   Organization of commission; officers; quorum. At its first meeting
each year the Commission shall select one of its members to serve as Chairman
and another to serve as Vice-Chairman, which member shall be called upon to
serve only in the absence of the Chairman. These offices shall be filled for
one year and no officer thus selected may succeed himself or herself in said
office for the successive year. A majority of commissioners comprising the
Commission who shall be present at any meeting, regular or special, shall
constitute a quorum for the purpose of conducting any and all business.
   (F)   Conduct of business at meetings of the commission. The Chairman, or in
his or her absence, the Vice-Chairman shall conduct each meeting of the
Commission in accordance with a previously prepared agenda. Each regular
meeting shall include financial and operational reports from the General
Manager, Chief Engineer and Chief Financial Officer. With the concurrence of
the Chairman, additional items may be placed on the agenda prior to the meeting
at the request of the General Manager or members of the Commission. Upon the
recommendation of the Chairman or the General Manager, the Commission may be
called into a special meeting upon 24 hours notice or an emergency meeting at
such time as a quorum may be available.
(Ord. passed 10-3-50; Am. Ord. 76-02, passed 2-3-76; Am. Ord. 90-03, passed 2-
13-90; Am. Ord. 2003-008, passed 5-22-03) 
§ 53.17  EMPLOYMENT OF GENERAL MANAGER; COMPENSATION.
   The position of General Manager shall be filled by the Commission by means
of advertisement and interviews. The Commission will then make a recommendation
to the City Council for their approval. The compensation of the General Manager
shall be set by the Commission, with City Council approval, at the time the
General Manager is employed and may be changed by the Commission as
circumstances warrant, subject to City Council approval. The General Manager
shall be removed for just cause upon recommendation of the Commission for
approval by the City Council.
(Ord. passed 10-3-50; Am. Ord. 2003-008, passed 5-22-03)
§ 53.18  DUTIES OF THE GENERAL MANAGER.
   The duties of the General Manager shall be the day-to-day management and
operation of the Paintsville Utilities Commission. These duties shall include
supervision of all employees of the Commission consistent with the provisions
of this subchapter and personnel policies of the city and the Commission. The
General Manager may recommend to the Commission the employment, discharge and
compensation of employees of the Commission, consistent with applicable
personnel policies. It shall be his or her duty to recommend to the Commission
any outside professional consultants, state and federal grants or other
contracts or agreements necessary or desirable for the successful operation of
the utilities or any extensions or expansions thereof. The General Manager will
prepare a budget each fiscal year to be approved by the Commission and the City
Council.
(Ord. passed 10-3-50; Am. Ord. 2003-008, passed 5-22-03)
§ 53.19  OTHER SUPERVISORY PERSONNEL.
   The Commission may employ a Chief Financial Officer, whose education and
training shall be in accounting and business administration, whose duty it
shall be to oversee the financial affairs of the Commission at the direction
and under the supervision of the General Manager and the Commission. The
Commission may also employ a Chief Engineer, at the direction and under the
supervision of the General Manager and the Commission. Compensation for these
positions shall be determined by the Commission and those employed in these
positions shall serve at the will and pleasure of the Commission.
(Ord. passed 10-3-50; Am. Ord. 2003-008, passed 5-22-03)
§ 53.20  RATES; COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   Rates for water, waste water and natural gas usage, as well as all
other services of the Commission provided to the consuming public, shall be
proposed by the Commission to the City Council upon the recommendation of the
General Manager and the Chief Financial Officer and shall be set by the City
Council. The Commission and its attorney shall certify to the City Council that
the proposed rates conform to the requirements and provisions of any and all
prevailing bond ordinances which may be outstanding at the time.
   (B)   The Commission shall establish a collection policy which shall be
uniform, consistent and applicable to all consumers of each class, residential,
commercial and wholesale, and which shall be designed to assure the maximum
possible collection of accounts due the Commission for its products and
services.
(Ord. passed 10-3-50; Am. Ord. 2003-008, passed 5-22-03)
§ 53.21  PURCHASES; CONTRACTS; SELF DEALING.
   (A)   Purchases shall be conducted as follows:
      (1)   All purchases shall be in conformity with the Commission's approved
annual budget;
      (2)   Any single purchase in excess of $5,000 shall be approved by the
Commission;
      (3)   Any single purchase in excess of $25,000 shall be approved by both
the Commission and the City Council;
      (4)   All procurement of goods and services shall be in compliance with
the provisions of KRS 424.260;
      (5)   The above policies shall be exclusive of those procurements that
are administered by way of grants by either state or federal agencies which
mandate specific procurement guidelines.
   (B)   No commissioner or employee of the Commission shall engage in nor
authorize nor attempt to influence another in engaging in or authorizing the
use of Commission funds, equipment or personnel for his or her benefit or for
the benefit of any member of said commissioner's or employee's family.
(Ord. passed 10-3-50; Am. Ord. 2003-008, passed 5-22-03; Am. Ord. 2012-002,
passed 4-23-12)
§ 53.22  REPORTS; AUDITS.
   Each month the Commission shall provide the Mayor and City Council with a
detailed, itemized report on the operation of the Utilities Commission for the
previous month which report shall include an accurate accounting of the
Commission's financial transactions, products produced, purchased and sold,
revenues, expenditures, product losses and payroll. Once each fiscal year an
external audit shall be performed by a qualified certified public accountant as
selected by policy stated in §
53.21(A) for professional services.
(Ord. passed 10-3-50; Am. Ord. 2003-008, passed 5-22-03)
CHAPTER 54:  WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Use of city property for water and sewer line construction; maintenance
   
54.02   Water rates
   
54.03   Emergency wholesale water rate
Water Shortages
   
54.15   Phases of notification
   
54.16   Water shortage advisory
   
54.17   Water shortage alert
   
54.18   Water shortage emergency
   
54.19   Water usage regulations; rationing
   
54.20   Declaration of advisory, alert or emergency
Cross Connection Prevention Program
   
54.30   Purpose and authority
   
54.31   Definitions
   
54.32   Requirements
 
   
54.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.01  USE OF CITY PROPERTY FOR WATER AND SEWER LINE CONSTRUCTION;
MAINTENANCE.
   The City Council does authorize the use of all city streets, highways,
alleys, and public ways for the construction and maintenance of any and all
necessary portions of a construction project consisting of extensions,
additions, and improvements to the existing water and sewer system of the city,
including water distribution lines and sewage gathering lines, without the
necessity of further permits, licenses or other certifications or approval from
the city.
(Ord. 77-07, passed 8-12-77)
Cross-reference:
   Sewers, see
Chapter 52
§ 54.02  WATER RATES.
   (A)   Effective May 1, 2017, the rates for water service for customers of
the Paintsville Utilities shall be as follows:
Water Consumption Rates Inside City (per 1,000 Rates Outside City (per 1,000
                  gallons)                     gallons)
Water Consumption    Rates Inside City (per 1,000 Rates Outside City (per 1,000
                     gallons)                     gallons)
First 2,000 gallons  $ 13.98                      $ 20.38
Next 3,000 gallons   6.82                         8.57
Next 5,000 gallons   6.82                         8.57
Next 15,000 gallons  6.53                         8.19
Next 25,000 gallons  6.23                         7.34
Next 50,000 gallons  6.23                         7.34
Over 100,000 gallons 6.01                         6.75
[The above-stated water rates reflecting a 10% increase in the rate structure
in effect since January 1, 2009]
 
   (B)   There shall be, in accordance with the requirements and directives of
Rural Development, an increase in water rates as follows, which shall occur the
earlier of May 1, 2018 or the date of the loan closing on Downtown I & I
Project to be funded by Rural Development:
Water Consumption Rates Inside City (per 1,000 Rates Outside City (per 1,000
                  gallons)                     gallons)
Water Consumption    Rates Inside City (per 1,000 Rates Outside City (per 1,000
                     gallons)                     gallons)
First 2,000 gallons  $ 15.18                      $ 22.14
Next 3,000 gallons   7.41                         9.31
Next 5,000 gallons   7.41                         9.31
Next 15,000 gallons  7.09                         8.90
Next 25,000 gallons  6.77                         7.98
Next 50,000 gallons  6.77                         7.98
Over 100,000 gallons 6.53                         7.33
 
   (C)   In addition to the adjustment set out in division (A) and division
(B), there shall be a yearly adjustment of water rates effective March 1, 2019
and each March 1 thereafter based upon the Consumer Price Index as published by
the Wall Street Journal. The water rates shall be adjusted according to that
Consumer Price Index and shall be placed on the April billing and each month
thereafter.
(Ord. 83-03, passed 3-23-83; Am. Ord. 2004-006, passed 5-21-04; Am. Ord. 2004-
008, passed 8-2-04; Am. Ord. 2009-004, passed 5-12-09; Am. Ord. 2017-002,
passed 4-13-17)  Penalty, see §
54.99
Cross-reference:
   Utility Commission wholesale rates, see §
53.01
§ 54.03  EMERGENCY WHOLESALE WATER RATE.
   (A)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      WHOLESALE PURCHASER.  Any municipality, water district and/or other
provider of water service to the ultimate consumer of the water sold.
      EMERGENCY.  Any situation or event, natural or manmade, which impairs a
wholesale purchaser's water supply reserve or system such that:
         (a)   There is a disruption of the normal water supply functions to
the wholesale purchaser's customers; and
         (b)   In order to protect the public health, an immediate supply of
water is necessary to meet the water needs of the wholesale purchaser's
ultimate customers.
   (B)   Emergency wholesale water rate.  The emergency wholesale rate for the
sale of water by Paintsville Utilities to a wholesale purchaser shall be as
follows: $2.50 per 1,000 gallons of water.
   (C)   Condition precedent for application of emergency wholesale water
rate.  In order for the above-stated emergency wholesale rate for the sale of
water to apply, the City Council shall be provided with written confirmation
from the Kentucky Public Service Commission or other appropriate state and/or
federal regulatory agency that an emergency, as defined herein, exists.
   (D)   Rate when emergency conditions not met.  Unless written certification
of an emergency, as defined herein, has been provided so as to allow
application of the emergency wholesale rate to apply for the sale of water to a
wholesale purchaser, the applicable water rate as provided under §
54.02 of this code shall apply.
(Ord. 2009-008, passed 11-10-09)
WATER SHORTAGES
§ 54.15  PHASES OF NOTIFICATION.
   There is designated and established official phases of notification relating
to water supply shortage situations which, upon declaration by the Mayor, shall
require the implementation of voluntary and mandatory water conservation
measures throughout Paintsville and other areas served by the Utility
Commission or Johnson County Water District.
(Ord. 92-005, passed 6-9-92)
§ 54.16  WATER SHORTAGE ADVISORY.
   Whenever an officer of the Utility Commission finds that a potential
shortage of the supply of treated water exists, upon written certification to
the Mayor, the Mayor may declare a water shortage advisory.  In addition to the
declaration, the Mayor shall call upon all customers of the Utility Commission
to employ voluntary water conservation and to eliminate the waste of all
treated water.
(Ord. 92-005, passed 6-9-92)
§ 54.17  WATER SHORTAGE ALERT.
   Whenever an officer of the Utility Commission, the public supplier of
potable water in the city and Johnson County, finds that a condition exists
where it will not be able to meet the expected needs of its customers, upon
written certification thereof to the Mayor, the Mayor may publicly declare a
water shortage alert.  In addition to the declaration, the Mayor may call upon
all customers of the Utility Commission to employ voluntary water conservation,
and to eliminate the waste of all treated water and to use treated water
outside of buildings (such usage to include, but not limited to, car washing,
driveway washing, filling of swimming pools; use and filling of fountains and
watering of lawns, bushes and trees) only in accordance with schedules to be
promulgated at that time.
(Ord. 92-005, passed 6-9-92)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.18  WATER SHORTAGE EMERGENCY.
   Whenever an officer of the Utility Commission, the public supplier of
potable water in the city and Johnson County, finds that the Utility Commission
is unable to meet the expected needs of its customers and that such a condition
will exist for some period of time in the future, and upon written
certification thereof to the Mayor, the Mayor may publicly declare a water
shortage emergency.  In addition to the declaration, the Mayor may call upon
all customers of the Utility Commission to employ voluntary water conservation,
and to eliminate the waste of all treated water outside of buildings, and to
use water only as necessary to maintain minimum standards of hygiene and
sanitation, and to provide for essential health and public protection purposes.
(Ord. 92-005, passed 6-9-92)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.19  WATER USAGE REGULATIONS; RATIONING.
   Whenever the Mayor has declared a “water shortage alert” or “water shortage
emergency” pursuant to §§
54.17 and
54.18, the may promulgate such administrative regulations governing all water
usage in the city and county by all customers of the Utility Commission as may,
in his discretion, appear necessary to protect the health and public safety of
the residents of the city and county in a manner consistent with the terms of
this section.  Specifically, when a water shortage emergency has been declared,
the attendant administrative regulations may cite the need for the equitable
distribution of the critically limited water supply, and in order to insure
that limited water supplies are used to best preserve the public health and
safety, the Mayor is empowered to institute mandatory water rationing.
(Ord. 92-005, passed 6-9-92)
§ 54.20  DECLARATION OF ADVISORY, ALERT OR EMERGENCY.
   The declaration of a water shortage advisory, water shortage alert or water
shortage emergency shall continue until an officer of the Utility Commission
finds that the conditions calling for the declaration no longer exists, and
upon written certification thereof to the Mayor, the Mayor may publicly declare
the condition no longer existing. (Ord. 92-005, passed 6-9-92)
CROSS CONNECTION PREVENTION PROGRAM
§ 54.30  PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to establish a program to assure
that the public water supply is protected from any auxiliary water supply which
may cause contamination due to backflow or cross connections. The city
recognizes that contamination of the public water supply presents an imminent
health hazard to the residential and non-residential users of the public water
system; the threat of significant economic loss due to disrupted water service
to such residential and nonresidential water users and the potential liability
to the city.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this subchapter to meet the requirements
of 401 KAR 8:020 as enacted by the Kentucky Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection cabinet.
   (C)   This subchapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.003.
(Ord. 2001-008, passed 08-21-01)
§ 54.31  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply on or available to the premises
other than the city's public water supply. These auxiliary waters may include
water from any natural source such as a well, spring, river, stream or body of
water or any water or other substance of unknown or questionable quality that
may present a health or system hazard to the potable public water supply.
   BACKFLOW.The reversal of the normal flow of water caused by either back
pressure or back siphonage.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY. An assembly or means designed to prevent
backflow. A listing of acceptable backflow prevention assemblies and degree of
hazard is available in the Kentucky State Plumbing Law, Regulations and Code.
   CONTAMINATION.  An impairment of the quality of the potable water supply by
any waste product, fluid, substance, compound or other material to a degree
which creates an actual or potential hazard to the public health through
poisoning or through the spread of disease.
   CROSS CONNECTION.  Any physical connection or arrangement of piping or
fixtures between two otherwise separate piping systems one of which contains
potable water and the other non-potable water or substance of questionable
quality, through which, or because of which, backflow may occur into the
potable water system.
   THERMAL EXPANSION TANK.  A device installed on the cold water supply line
near a water heater to compensate for the expansion of water within a water
system when such water is heated.
(Ord. 2001-008, passed 08-21-01)
§ 54.32  REQUIREMENTS.
   The city shall provide protection to the public water system against
backflow by implementing the following requirements:
   (A)   Residential. Buildings used for habitation or occupancy shall be
considered as residential buildings. No new water service connection to any
premises shall be installed or allowed to be installed by the city unless such
service connection is protected by a backflow prevention assembly. Residential
service connections shall be considered as low hazard applications and all such
connections shall have at a minimum a dual check valve backflow preventer
installed between the water meter and the residence. The city may require
additional or alternate backflow prevention assemblies if the degree of hazard
constitutes a higher level of protection for the public water system.
   (B)   Non-residential. No new water service connection to any non-
residential facility shall be installed or allowed to be installed by the city
unless such water service connection is protected by a backflow prevention
assembly. The type of protective device required shall be determined at the
time of installation of the service connection and shall be commensurate with
the degree of hazard at the point of such service connection. At a minimum the
service connection shall be installed with a dual check valve backflow
preventer. In the event activities to occur within a nonresidential facility
change and creates a higher degree of hazard, then the backflow prevention
assembly shall be replaced with an assembly which provides acceptable
protection.
   (C)   Inspections. The customer's water system shall be open for inspection
at all reasonable times to authorized representatives of the city to determine
whether cross connections or other structural or sanitary hazards, including
violation of this subchapter, exist. When such a condition becomes known, the
city shall deny or immediately discontinue service to the premises by providing
a physical break in the service line until the customer has corrected the
condition in conformance with the state and city statutes relating to plumbing,
water supplies and the regulations adopted pursuantly thereto. Water service to
any premises shall be discontinued if it is found that a backflow prevention
assembly required by this subchapter has been removed, bypassed, or if an
unprotected cross connection exists on the premises. Service will not be
restored until such conditions or defects are corrected.
   (D)   Existing service connections. All existing water service connections
which do not have backflow prevention assemblies or existing water service
connections which have less than the minimum required backflow prevention
assemblies, shall, except for the inspection requirements, be excluded from the
requirements of this subchapter so long as the city is assured that the public
water system is satisfactorily protected. However, if the city determines that
a hazard to health exists, then a backflow prevention assembly meeting the
requirements of this subchapter may be installed on such existing service
connection. Backflow prevention assemblies shall not be installed on existing
service connections until after the property owner of such residential or
commercial property has been informed of the actual and potential hazards that
may be created as a result of such backflow assembly installation. Notices
provided to such property owners shall include the following language as
adopted in 815 KAR 20:120 section 2, item (6): when cross connection control
devices are properly installed, they create a closed water system. A properly
sized thermal expansion tank shall be installed in the cold water supply
located as near the water heater as possible.
(Ord. 2001-008, passed 08-21-01)
§ 54.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is otherwise provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
54.17 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of
up to $500.  Any person who violates the provisions of §
54.18 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of
up to $500 and up to 30 days imprisonment.  Each day in violation of the terms
of §§
54.17 and
54.18 shall constitute a separate offense. 
(Ord. 92-005, passed 6-9-92)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Signal legends
   
70.16   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.17   Obedience to signals
   
70.18   Interference with signals
   
70.19   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.20   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.21   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
 
   
70.99   General penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.  Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney's office when on official
business, and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD.  Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing such boulevard.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT.  Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK.  That portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and such other portions of the roadway
between two intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and
marked by stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   CURB.  The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION.  That part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle whether or not
one such street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.  All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the Chief
of Police.
   ONE-WAY STREET.  A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR.  Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK.  When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN.  Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET.  Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Chief of
Police and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT.  The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY.  The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and foot
paths.
   REVERSE TURN.  To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to
proceed in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY.  That portion of any street, improved, designated, or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK.  That portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING.  As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET.  Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC.  Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses, and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE.  Every device in, on, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn on any street except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
§ 70.02  REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate
any of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in
this traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03  POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
§ 70.04  AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or any other signal.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05  TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
shall, at his discretion, have authority to impose such traffic regulations as
he may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two weeks.  If these
temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than two weeks, the
City Clerk shall be notified in writing of the extended order.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15  SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “Go,” “Caution,” or “Stop,” or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows:
   (A)   Green alone or “Go”. Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn.  However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time
such signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or
“Go” signal.  Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection.  Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter
and clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “Stop.”  Vehicular traffic facing the
signal shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or
at such other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall
remain standing until green or “Go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone.  Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed
until it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone.  Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall
reduce its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by
such signal.
   (F)   “Yield Right-of-Way.”  Vehicular traffic facing the “Yield Right-of-
Way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way.  All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within such primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way.  No vehicle facing a “Yield Right-of-Way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 miles per hour, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles
entering an expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights.  When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear.  However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above such lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them.  If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at such place prohibits
such turn.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.16  ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city.  All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly.  All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.17  OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic- control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for such
barrier or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   Such sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority
as the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18  INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.19  UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the
movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal.  No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal any commercial advertising. 
Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any public department
or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily from marking or
erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been approved by the
city.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20  DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
§ 70.21  TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may at his discretion disregard traffic-
control lights or signals or established regulations in order to facilitate the
movement of traffic.
§ 70.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
   
71.05   Speed limit
Accidents
   
71.15   Duty of operator
   
71.16   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.25   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.26   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.27   Smoke emission or other nuisance
Parades
   
71.40   Definitions
   
71.41   Permit required
   
71.42   Application for permit
   
71.43   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.44   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.45   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.46   Alternative permit
   
71.47   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.48   Contents of permit
   
71.49   Duties of permittee
   
71.50   Public conduct during parades
   
71.51   Revocation of permit
Vehicle Weight and Length Restrictions
   
71.60   Purpose
   
71.61   Definitions
   
71.62   Certain vehicles not permitted upon secondary streets
   
71.63   Exemptions
   
71.64   Permit required for local deliveries
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01  OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance.  Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he shall be deemed to have violated this
division rather than division (B) above.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02  REVERSE OR U TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8))  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03  BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement.  A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04  VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Chief of Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension.  On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.  The
operator of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley
from the roadway may do so at low speed and with caution. 
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05  SPEED LIMIT.
   (A)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY STREET.  Any thoroughfare within the city limits, owned and/or
maintained by the city, excluding highways owned by the Commonwealth of
Kentucky or the United States of America.
      PENALTY.  That punitive measure which shall be imposed by a court of
competent jurisdiction for violation of the terms of this section.
      SPEED LIMIT.  The maximum limit which motor vehicular traffic may operate
on city streets.
   (B)   The purpose of this section is to regulate the speed of motor vehicle
traffic in the city on streets owned and/or maintained by the city.
   (C)   The regulations as hereinafter provided shall not apply to state or
federal highways within the city limits.
   (D)   Fifteen miles per hour is determined to be the maximum reasonable safe
speed for operation of a motor vehicle on city streets.  It shall be unlawful
for any motor vehicle, at any time, to travel in excess of 15 miles per hour on
any city street, within the city limits.
(Ord. 82-09, passed 9-14-82)  Penalty, see §
71.99
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.15  DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render such assistance as may be needed.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.16  ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner, or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
Penalty, see §
71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.25  OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   No person shall willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in such a
manner as to injure the highway.
(KRS 189.290) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.26  RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
such vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-
way, immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and stop and remain
in such position until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise
directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall keep such position until
the emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer
or firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he is on official business, shall
follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the provisions
of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he drive into, park the
vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the block where the vehicle has
stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he is directed
otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train, or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway, or track for use at any fire alarm unless the fire department
official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   Upon approaching a stationary emergency vehicle or public safety
vehicle, when the emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal
by displaying alternately flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or
blue lights, a person who drives an approaching vehicle shall, while proceeding
with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the authorized emergency vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes
with not fewer than two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the
approaching vehicle; and
         (b)   If it is possible to make the lane change with due regard to
safety and traffic conditions; or
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if changing lanes would be impossible or unsafe.
   (F)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.27  SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke, or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020)  Penalty, see §
71.99
PARADES
§ 71.40  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE.  Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city.
   PARADE PERMIT.  A permit required by this subchapter.
§ 71.41  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.42  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by such
officer.
   (A)   Filing period.  The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairman and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his behalf;
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.43  STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of fire
fighting equipment en route to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route;
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.44  NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof.  If he disapproves the application, he
shall mail to the applicant within the three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after the date on which the application was filed, a notice
of his action stating the reasons for his denial of the permit.
§ 71.45  APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council.  The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial.  The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days
after its receipt.
§ 71.46  ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant.  An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file
a written notice of his acceptance.  An alternate parade permit shall conform
to the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit under
this subchapter.
§ 71.47  NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief;
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
§ 71.48  CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof;
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.49  DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances.  The parade chairman or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his
person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.50  PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference.  No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades.  No driver of a vehicle except a police car
or other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons
comprising a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are
conspicuously designated as a parade.
Cross reference:
   Parking on parade routes, see § 72.07
§ 71.51  REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
VEHICLE WEIGHT AND LENGTH RESTRICTIONS
§ 71.60  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter shall be a restriction on vehicles of certain
weights and lengths from access on the streets of the city.
(Ord. 80-03, passed 1-28-80; Am. Ord. 80-11, passed 4-1-80)
§ 71.61  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SECONDARY STREETS.  Secondary streets within the territorial limits of the
city which are not designated as state or federal highways.
   VEHICLES.  Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a public highway, excepting devices moved by
human and animal power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks or
which derives its power from overhead wires.
(Ord. 80-03, passed 1-28-80; Am. Ord. 80-11, passed 4-1-80)
§ 71.62  CERTAIN VEHICLES NOT PERMITTED UPON SECONDARY STREETS.
   (A)   Vehicles as defined by KRS 186.010(8)b which exceed 10,000 pounds
shall not be permitted upon any secondary streets within the territory limits
of the city.
   (B)   Vehicles as defined by KRS 186.010(8)b which exceeds 40 feet in
length, whether as a single unit or with a trailer attached, shall not be
permitted upon any secondary streets within the territorial limits of the city.
(Ord. 80-03, passed 1-28-80; Am. Ord. 80-11, passed 4-1-80)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.63  EXEMPTIONS.
   The following streets are hereby excepted from the enforcement of this
subchapter:
      Main Street                  East Street
      Church Street                  River Street
      Court Street                  Second Street
      West Street
(Ord. 80-03, passed 1-28-80; Am. Ord. 80-11, passed 4-1-80)
§ 71.64  PERMIT REQUIRED FOR LOCAL DELIVERIES.
   A permit shall be issued by the City Clerk upon the application by persons
who are required to make local deliveries upon the secondary streets of the
city.  Such permit will be valid only when the permittee utilizes the most
direct route to and from nonrestricted roadways.  Failure to use the most
direct route to and from nonrestricted roadways shall be treated as a violation
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 80-03, passed 1-28-80; Am. Ord. 80-11, passed 4-1-80)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter or
Chapter 74, Traffic Schedules, for which no other penalty is specifically
provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $20
nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
71.05 or
Chapter 74 , Sched. I shall be subject to a fine in accordance with the
schedule of fines established under KRS 189.394.
   (C)   Any person who violates §
71.26 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $60 nor
more than $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 30 days,
or both.  (KRS 189.993(8))
   (D)   Any person who violates any provision of §
71.62(A) shall be subject to the same fine as set forth in the fine schedule of
KRS 189.990.
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.001   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.002   Manner of parking
   
72.003   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.004   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.005   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.006   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
72.007   Parking on parade route
   
72.008   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.009   Owner responsibility
   
72.010   Parking in parks
   
72.011   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.012   Obedience to parking control signs required
   
72.013   Handicap parking
   
72.014   Parking in fire lane
   
72.015   Commercial parking lots in residential areas
Impounding
   
72.025   Tow-away zones
   
72.026   Immobilization of vehicle for nonpayment of tickets
   
72.027   Required notice to owner
   
72.028   Sale of vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.040   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.041   Termination of emergency
   
72.042   Snow emergency routes
Metered Parking
   
72.055   Parking meter zones
   
72.056   Designation of parking spaces
   
72.057   Operation of parking meters; parking overtime
   
72.058   Daily operation of meters; exceptions
   
72.059   Overtime parking prohibited
   
72.060   Parking across, or outside of lines or markings prohibited
   
72.061   Defacing or tampering with meters
   
72.062   Deposit of slugs
   
72.063   Collection and use of proceeds from meters
Two-Hour Free Parking Zones
   
72.075   Designation of zones
   
72.076   Parking in free zone beyond two-hour limit
   
72.077   Moving vehicle within two-hour free parking zones; evasion of time
limit
Administration and Enforcement
   
72.090   Enforcement by Police Department; inspections
   
72.091   Use of chalk marks to check overtime parking; interference
   
72.092   Hearing Board
   
72.093   Use of proceeds from parking fines
 
   
72.999   Penalty
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.001  OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   No person shall within the city limits park their vehicle in such a
way that it is parked in the street directly across from a vehicle that is
otherwise legally parked.  Any vehicle parked in this manner shall be
considered double parked.  (Ord. 89-04, passed 6-6-89)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.002  MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that such
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes.  Such backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway of moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the center line of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto.  However, diagonal parking shall not
be established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten
feet of the center line of any street.  Such diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which such vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park such
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.003  LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park such
vehicle except in a case of real emergency or in compliance with the provisions
of this traffic code or when directed by a police officer or traffic sign or
signal at any time in the following places:
   (A)   On the mainly-traveled portion of any roadway or on any other place in
the roadway where vehicles stand in any manner other than as specified in §
72.02.
   (B)   On a sidewalk or curb.
   (C)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities.
   (D)   In front of a public or private driveway or alley.
   (E)   Within an intersection or on a crosswalk.
   (F)   At any place where “No Parking Anytime” signs prohibit stopping or
parking.  This does not apply to police officers when operating properly
identified vehicles during the performance of their official duties.
   (G)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, traffic sign, or traffic-
control device located on the side of a roadway.
   (H)   On the streets of the city either in whole or in part, in any areas
where the curb is painted yellow.
   (I)   In any area set aside by the city and marked with a sign stating that
there is no parking from the point of the sign to the next corner.  The sign
shall read “No Parking Here to Corner.”
   (J)   Within 15 feet of any fire hydrant.
   (K)   In any area designated as a fire lane as set forth in §
72.014.
   (L)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area.
(KRS 189.450(5), (6))  (Ord. 89-04, passed 6-6-89)  Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.004  RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of vehicles in
specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to handicapped parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice
thereof. However, in lieu of erecting such signs or in conjunction therewith,
the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is
prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No such regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the
signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the
time of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions
which by their very nature would not require such signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.005  PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day.  It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.006  PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle on any
of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer. 
Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or streets
of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed abandoned, and
shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city pertaining to
abandoned motor vehicles.
Penalty, see § 72.99
Cross-reference:
   Removal of abandoned vehicles, see § 72.21 et seq.
§ 72.007  PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or restrict
the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a part of
the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs to that
effect, and to prohibit and prevent such parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of such signs or directions.
Penalty, see § 72.99
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§
71.40 et seq.
§ 72.008 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another's property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee, or person in charge of such property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise trespass
in violation of division (A) of this section, the owner, lessee, or person in
charge of the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle
removed in accordance with the provisions of §§ 72.20 through 72.22.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the owner's
expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B).
Penalty, see § 72.99
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.009  OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.010  PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway.  However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any such park or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on such roadway.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.011  DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.012  OBEDIENCE TO PARKING CONTROL SIGNS REQUIRED.
   To violate the instructions contained on any parking control sign.  These
signs are specified as follows:
   (A)   No Parking Any Time.
   (B)   No Parking Here to Corner.
   (C)   No Parking Loading Zone.
   (D)   No Parking Fire Lane.
(Ord. passed 4-5-88)
§ 72.013  HANDICAP PARKING.
   (A)   There is hereby set aside and marked very plainly by appropriate
symbols and signs designating handicap parking which is available to anyone who
has been issued by the State a proper handicap parking sticker.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this chapter
to park in any parking space designated for handicap parking only unless the
person driving or an occupant of the vehicle has been issued a handicap parking
sticker.
(Ord. 88-02, passed 2-2-88)  Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.014  PARKING IN FIRE LANE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or leave standing a motor
vehicle within any area of a street, alley or other public way, or passageway
or roadway of any shopping center or other privately owned area, which is
designated as a “fire lane” and posted as such by signs readily viewable, by
the Fire Chief of the city.
   (B)   All fire lanes shall be designated and recorded on a list to be
compiled and kept by the Fire Chief of the city, a copy of which shall be kept
in the records of the City Clerk, and all such fire lanes shall be properly
designated by signs posted by the Fire Chief.
(Ord. 79-01, passed 2-6-79)  Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.015  COMMERCIAL PARKING LOTS IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   All parking lots located within residential areas as said areas are defined
in the city code which are used for commercial purposes are to be surfaced with
blacktop or concrete.
(Ord. 2001-07, passed 7-10-01)
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.025  TOW-AWAY ZONES.
   (A)   There are established certain areas known as “Tow Away Zones.”  These
zones will be established by the Police Department and authorized only where
appropriate signs have been conspicuously posed as “Tow Away Zones.”  These
zones should be clearly identified and posted in such a way as to give the
public at large notice in any zone that has been so marked.
   (B)   Any vehicle parked in a “Tow Away Zone” may be towed out of the zone
and placed in an area designated by the Police Department for holding.  The
cost of towing any vehicle from one of these zones will be upon the vehicle's
owner and the vehicle will be released to the owner only after payment of the
towing charge.
(Ord. 89-04, passed 6-6-89)  Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.026  IMMOBILIZATION OF VEHICLE FOR NONPAYMENT OF TICKETS.
   In the event that any person shall receive three or more tickets for
violation of any parking regulation of the city and shall not have paid the
tickets relating to the violations, after receiving notice pursuant to KRS
82.610 and 82.615, and failing to request a hearing or following a final
determination by the Hearing Board or any appellate court that a violation was
committed, then any police officer shall be authorized to immobilize any
vehicle to which three or more such tickets are attributable.  Prior to the
immobilization of any vehicles the City Clerk shall notify the owner, by first-
class mail, certified return receipt requested, of any unpaid tickets.  The
owner of the vehicle will have seven days from the date of the letter to pay
the unpaid tickets.  If the tickets are not paid within that period, the police
will be authorized to immobilize the offending vehicle.  The vehicle shall not
be freed from immobilization until all fines are paid to the City Clerk.
(Ord. 90-14, passed 8-14-90; Am. Ord. 91-008, passed 7-9-91)
§ 72.027  REQUIRED NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported
pursuant to order of police, other public authority, or private person or
business for any reason or when the vehicle has been stolen or misappropriated
and its removal from the public ways has been ordered by police, other public
authority, or by private person or business, or in any other situation where a
motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported by order of police,
other authority, or by private person or business, the police, other authority,
or private person or business shall attempt to ascertain from the State
Transportation Cabinet the identity of the registered owner of the motor
vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as defined in KRS Chapter 281 and within
ten business days of the removal shall, by certified mail, attempt to notify
the registered owner at the address of record of the make, model, license
number, and vehicle identification number of the vehicle, of the location of
the vehicle, and of the requirements for securing the release of the motor
vehicle.
   (B)   If a vehicle described in division (A) is placed in a garage or other
storage facility, the owner of the facility shall attempt to provide the notice
provided in division (A) by certified mail to the registered owner at the
address of record of the motor vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as defined
in KRS Chapter 281 within ten business days of recovery of or taking possession
of the motor vehicle.  This notice shall contain the information as to the
make, model, license number, and identification number of the vehicle, the
location of the vehicle, and the amount of reasonable charges due on the
vehicle.  When the owner of the facility fails to provide notice as provided
herein, the motor vehicle storage facility shall forfeit all storage fees
accrued after ten business days from the date of tow.  This division (B) shall
not apply to a tow lot or storage facility owned or operated by the city.
(KRS 376.275(1), (2))
§ 72.028  SALE OF VEHICLE.
   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor vehicles in
either a private capacity or for the city who has substantially complied with
the requirements of § 72.21 shall have a lien on the motor vehicle for the
reasonable or agreed charges for storing or towing the vehicle as long as it
remains in his possession. If after a period of 45 days, the reasonable or
agreed charges for storing or towing a motor vehicle have not been paid, the
motor vehicle may be sold to pay the charges after the owner has been notified
by certified mail ten days prior to the time and place of the sale.  If the
proceeds of the sale of any vehicle pursuant to this section are insufficient
to satisfy accrued charges for towing, transporting, and storage, the sale and
collection of proceeds shall not constitute a waiver or release of
responsibility for payment of unpaid towing, transporting, and storage charges
by the owner or responsible casualty insurer of the vehicle.  This lien shall
be subject to prior recorded liens.
(KRS 376.275(3))
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.040  ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official finds that
falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain will create a condition which makes it
necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever he finds on the basis of a firm forecast of snow,
sleet, or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may create a
condition making it necessary that such parking be prohibited, he is authorized
to announce such prohibition, to become effective at a time specified by him. 
After the effective time of such prohibition no person shall park any vehicle
or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a snow emergency route.  However, if
a fall of snow, sleet, or freezing rain occurs after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:
00 a.m., and the Chief of Police or other authorized city official has not
announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency routes is to be
prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow emergency route
may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following such fall.  The prohibition of
parking announced by the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
under the authority of this section shall remain in effect until he announces
the termination of the snow emergency, in part or in which the prohibition of
parking authorized by this section shall no longer be in effect.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.041  TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall find
that some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency
prohibition no longer exist, he is authorized to declare the termination of the
emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on announcement.  If such
announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it shall be
repeated between those hours.
§ 72.042  SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Chief
of Police or other authorized city official.  On such street or highway
designated as a snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this
effect.
METERED PARKING
§ 72.055  PARKING METER ZONES.
   The following named and described areas, streets or portions of streets and
such other areas, streets or portions of streets as may hereinafter be included
in this section be amended hereto, lying within the corporate limits of the
city, shall constitute parking meter zones, namely:
   (A)   The lower parking lot of Main Street.
   (B)   Second Street From College Street to West Street.
   (C)   Main Street from West Street to Church Street and from East Street to
Euclid Avenue.
   (D)   Second Street to College Street.
(Ord. 88-02, passed 2-2-88)
§ 72.056  DESIGNATION OF PARKING SPACES.
   The Parking Meter Maintenance Supervisor is directed to mark off individual
parking spaces in the parking zones designated in §
72.055 of this chapter.  It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle in such a way
that the vehicle shall not be entirely within the limits of the space
designated.
(Ord. 88-02, passed 2-2-88)  Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.057  OPERATION OF PARKING METERS; PARKING OVERTIME.
   Upon entering the parking meter space, the operator of any vehicle shall
immediately deposit, or cause to be deposited, in the meter such proper coin of
the United States as is required for such parking meter and as is designated by
proper directions on the meter, and failure to deposit such proper coin and to
set the timing mechanism in operation shall constitute a violation of this
chapter.  If the vehicle shall remain parked in any such parking space beyond
the parking time limit set for such parking space, and if the meter shall
indicate such illegal parking, then such vehicle shall be considered as parking
overtime, and shall be deemed in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 88-02, passed 2-2-88)
§ 72.058  DAILY OPERATION OF METERS; EXCEPTIONS.
   The parking meters shall be operated in the parking meter zones between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. except Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.
(Ord. 88-02, passed 2-2-88)
§ 72.059  OVERTIME PARKING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this chapter for
any person to cause, allow, permit or suffer any vehicle registered in the name
of, or operated by such person, to be parked overtime, or exceed the two hour
time limit established for parking meter zones as herein described, or to
deposit in any parking meter any coin for the purpose of parking beyond the
maximum legal parking time for the particular parking meter zone.
(Ord. 88-02, passed 2-2-88)  Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.060  PARKING ACROSS, OR OUTSIDE OF LINES OR MARKINGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this chapter for
any person to park any vehicle across any line or marking of a parking meter
space or in such position that the vehicle shall not be entirely within the
area designated by such lines or markings.
(Ord. 88-02, passed 2-2-88)  Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.061  DEFACING OR TAMPERING WITH METERS.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this chapter for
any person to deface, injure, tamper with, open or willfully break, destroy, or
impair the usefulness of any parking meter installed under the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 88-02, passed 2-2-88)  Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.062  DEPOSIT OF SLUGS.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this chapter for
any person to deposit or cause to be deposited in any parking meter any slugs,
device or metal substance, or other substitute for lawful coins.
(Ord. 88-02, passed 2-2-88)  Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.063  COLLECTION AND USE OF PROCEEDS FROM METERS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police and the City Treasurer to
make regular collections of the money deposited in the parking meters and
deposited in the funds of the Parking Meter Account.
   (B)   The proceeds from the parking meters are required and shall be used to
defray the expenses of the property regulation of traffic upon the public
streets of the city to provide for the costs of supervision, regulation and
control of the parking meter zones and to cover the costs of purchase,
supervision, protection, inspection, installation, operation, maintenance,
control and use of parking metes and for the repair and maintenance of the
public streets of the city.
(Ord. 88-02, passed 2-2-88)
TWO-HOUR FREE PARKING ZONES
§ 72.075  DESIGNATION OF ZONES.
   With the exception of those areas as designated in §
72.055 and designated no parking areas within the city, there is hereby
established a two-hour free parking zone on all other city streets within the
corporate city limits.  These areas shall be specifically set out and the curbs
painted green and over painted with two-hour parking painted on same.
(Ord. 88-02, passed 2-2-88)
§ 72.076  PARKING IN FREE ZONE BEYOND TWO-HOUR LIMIT.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this chapter for
any person to park in a free two-hour parking zone beyond the two-hour limit.
(Ord. 88-02, passed 2-2-88)  Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.077  MOVING VEHICLE WITHIN TWO-HOUR FREE PARKING ZONES; EVASION OF TIME
LIMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to move a vehicle from one parking space
in the two-hour free parking zones as established in §
72.075 of this chapter to any other parking space within the aforesaid two-hour
free parking zones for the purpose of evading time limitations on parking. 
There shall be a rebuttable presumption that any person employed or working in
the areas bound by Paint Creek on the south, Euclid Avenue and Third Street on
the east, Third Street on the north, and Church Street on the west, who moves a
vehicle from one parking space to another in the two-hour free parking zone
area and then returns directly or indirectly to work has moved such vehicle for
the purpose of evading time limitations on parking.
(Ord. 91-011, passed 9-10-91)  Penalty, see §
72.999
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 72.090  ENFORCEMENT BY POLICE DEPARTMENT; INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to enforce the provisions of
this chapter.  A parking meter attendant may be appointed to make continuous
daily inspections to enforce this chapter.
(Ord. 88-02, passed 2-2-88)
§ 72.091  USE OF CHALK MARKS TO CHECK OVERTIME PARKING; INTERFERENCE.
   In checking for overtime parking, any police officer or traffic-control
officer is authorized to use chalk marks on the tires or parked vehicles or any
other identifying mark that does not deface the vehicle, and it shall be
unlawful for any person to erase or obliterate such mark for the purpose of
interfering with such checking for overtime parking.
(Ord. 91-011, passed 9-10-91)  Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.092  HEARING BOARD.
   There is hereby established by the city a Hearing Board as defined in KRS
82.600, to conduct hearings pursuant to KRS 82.605 through 82.640.  The Hearing
Board shall consist of one individual to be appointed by the Mayor, and who
shall be responsible for conducting all hearings called for pursuant to KRS
82.605 to 82.640.
(Ord. 91-009, passed 7-9-91)
§ 72.093  USE OF PROCEEDS FROM PARKING FINES.
   The proceeds from the parking fines are required and shall be used to:
   (A)   Defray the expenses of the proper regulation of traffic upon the
public streets of the city;
   (B)   Provide for the costs of supervision, regulation and control of the
parking meter zones; and
   (C)   Cover the costs of purchase, supervision, protection, inspection,
installation, operation, maintenance, control and use of parking meters and for
the repair and maintenance of the public streets of the city.
(Ord. 89-04, passed 6-6-89) 
§ 72.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city
for which no penalty is otherwise provided shall be deemed to have committed a
violation and shall be fined in an amount not less than $20 nor more than $100.
(KRS 189.990(1))
   (B)   Any person who violates §§
72.001(B) and §
72.003(B),(D),(F),(H),(I), and (J), or 72.025 shall be issued a parking ticket
by the meter attendant or city police officer.  The parking tickets shall be
handled and disposed of as follows:
      (1)   Within 48 hours after issuance, the recipient may place $10 in the
envelope provided therefor and deposit it in any Fine-O-Meter Collection Box
placed at various locations in the city.
      (2)   Should the recipient fail to comply with division (B)(1) above, the
sum of $50 shall be paid to the City Clerk or a duly authorized deputy within
seven days after date of issuance.
      (3)   Any person who shall fail to comply with divisions (B)(1) and (2)
above shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be
punished with a fine of $100.
(Ord. 89-04, passed 6-6-89; Am. Ord. 90-14, passed 8-14-90)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
72.012 of this chapter shall be issued a parking ticket by the meter attendant
or city police officer.  The parking tickets shall be handled and disposed of
as follows:
      (1)   Within seven days after issuance, the recipient of a parking ticket
may place $5 in the envelope provided therefor and deposit it in any Fine-O-
Meter Collection box placed a various locations in the city.
      (2)   Should the recipient fail to comply with division (C)(1) above,
then the sum of $25 shall be paid to the City Clerk or a duly authorized deputy
within 30 days after the date of the issuance.
      (3)   Any person who shall fail to comply with divisions (C)(1) and (2)
above shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be
punished with a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $100.
(Ord. passed 4-5-88)
   (D)   Any person who violates §
72.013 of this chapter shall be issued a citation by the meter attendant or a
city police officer.  the citation shall be handled and disposed of as follows:
      (1)   Within 48 hours from the date of issuance the recipient may pay to
the City Clerk or a duly authorized deputy a fine of $50.  In the event that
the removal of a vehicle from a handicap parking zone is required, the
recipient will also be responsible for the cost of the removal.
      (2)   Should the recipient fail to pay the sum of $50 within 48 hours
from the date of issuance he/she shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction shall be punished by a fine of not less than $150 nor more than
$300.
(Ord. 88-02, passed 2-2-88; Am. Ord. 90-14, passed 8-14-90)
   (E)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
72.003(K) or 72.014 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fine
not less than $10 nor more than $100, and shall also be subject to a term of
not more than 30 days in jail for each such offense.  In addition to the
foregoing penalty, any police officer of the city may immobilize any vehicle
violating §§
72.003(K) or
72.014, and the vehicle will not be freed until payment to the City Clerk of an
administrative fee in the amount of $50.  Any police officer of the city may
direct that any vehicle in violation of §
72.003(K) or §
72.014 be towed, and the vehicle will not be released from the towing company
until such time as the owner or operator of the vehicle has paid the towing
charge and any storage charges. 
(Ord. 79-01, passed 2-6-79; Am. Ord. 90-19, passed 8-14-90)
   (F)   Any person who violates §§
72.058 through
72.061 shall be issued an overtime parking ticket by the meter attendant or
city police officer.  The overtime parking tickets shall be handled and
disposed of as follows:
      (1)   Within 24 hours after issuance, recipient of overtime parking
ticket may place $2 in the envelope provided therefor and deposit it in any
Fine-O-Meter Collection box placed at various locations in the city.
      (2)   Should the recipient fail to comply with division (F)(1) above, the
sum of $10 shall be paid to the City Clerk or a duly authorized deputy within
seven days after the date of issuance of the overtime parking tickets.
      (3)   Should the recipient fail to comply with divisions (F)(1) and (2)
above, then the sum of $50 shall be paid to the City Clerk or a duly authorized
deputy within 30 days after the date of the issuance.
      (4)   Any person who shall fail to comply with divisions (F)(1),(2) and
(3) above shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be
punished with a fine of not more than $100.  (Ord. 88-02, passed 2-2-88; Am.
Ord. 90-14, passed 8-14-90)
   (G)   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with §
72.075 shall be issued a citation by the meter attendant or a city police
officer.  The overtime parking ticket shall be handled and disposed of as
follows:
      (1)   Within 24 hours after issuance, the recipient of overtime parking
ticket may place $5 in the envelope provided therefore and deposit it in any
Fine-O-Meter Collection Box placed at various locations in the city.
      (2)   Should the recipient fail to comply with division (G)(1) above, the
sum of $50 shall be paid to the City Clerk or a duly authorized deputy within
seven days after the date of issuance.
      (3)   Should the recipient fail to comply with divisions (G)(1) and (2)
above, then the sum of $50 shall be paid to the City Clerk or a duly authorized
deputy within 30 days after the date of issuance.
      (4)   Any person who shall fail to comply with divisions (G)(1),(2) and
(3) above shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be
punished with a fine of $100.
(Ord. 88-02, passed 2-2-88; Am. Ord. 90-14, passed 8-14-90)
   (H)   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with §
72.077 shall be issued a citation by the traffic-control officer or city police
officer.  The citation shall be handled and disposed of as follows:
      (1)   Within 24 hours after issuance the recipient of the parking ticket
may place $5 in the envelope provided therefore.
      (2)   Should the recipient fail to comply with division (H)(1) above, the
sum of $10 shall be paid to the City Clerk or a duly authorized deputy within
seven days after the date of issuance.
      (3)   Should the recipient fail to comply with divisions (H)(1) and (2)
above, then the sum of $50 shall be paid to the City Clerk or a duly authorized
deputy within 30 days after the date of issuance.  (Ord. 91-011, passed 9-10-
91)
   (I)   Any person who violates §
72.092 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished
by a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $100.
(Ord. 91-011, passed 9-10-91)
CHAPTER 73:  BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
   
73.05   Use of bicycles, motorcycles and skateboards on Community Center
walking track
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02(C)
§ 73.01  OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot, or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on such bicycle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Bicycles; safety regulations and standards, see KRS 189.287
§ 73.02  OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Regulations for operating and riding on motorcycles, see KRS 189.285
§ 73.03  SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as “play streets”
by the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful
for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of any
kind, to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04  CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates, or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of
any vehicle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05  USE OF BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES AND SKATEBOARDS ON COMMUNITY CENTER
WALKING TRACK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bicycle or
motorscooter on the Community Center walking track.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use skates, skateboards or to
ride on a coaster sled on the Community Center walking track.
(Ord. 92-009, passed 9-8-92)  Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 73.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to have
committed a violation and shall be fined not more than $50 for each offense.
CHAPTER 74:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Section
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Stop intersections
SCHEDULE I.  SPEED LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle at a speed in
excess of the limits specified in this traffic schedule on the following
streets:
 
Street     Speed Limit       Ord. No. Date Passed
River Road 25 miles per hour 77-01    6-7-77
 
Penalty, see §
71.99
SCHEDULE II.  STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   Portable stop signs are authorized to be used at the following locations,
the hours of such use to be in the discretion of the Chief of Police at such
times as the areas area being traveled by school children.  All vehicular
traffic on the following streets at the locations mentioned, shall be brought
to a full stop before proceeding when such signs are in place.
 
Intersection                          Ord. No. Date Passed
Corner of 2nd Street and Court Street 90-09    6-12-90
Corner of 3rd Street and Court Street 90-09    6-12-90
 
Penalty, see §
71.99
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   LITTERING
      
95.   ALARMS; EMERGENCY SYSTEMS
      
96.   FAIR HOUSING
      
97.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
98.   TREES
      
99.   SMOKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.04   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.05   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.06   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
   
90.07   Responsibility of owner to remove; dispose of animal feces
   
90.08   Keeping of livestock within city limits
Dogs
   
90.15   Dogs running at large
   
90.16   Noise disturbance
   
90.17   Keeping of vicious dog
   
90.18   Right of entry of law enforcement officer to investigate violation
   
90.19   Dogs to be vaccinated against rabies
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON.  Abandonment shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and
claims by the owner to the animal.  (KRS 257.100(4))
   AT LARGE.  Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   DOG.  Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
   OWNER.  Every person having a right of property to an animal and every
person who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care, or permits it
to remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
(Am. Ord. 96-010, passed 10-8-96)
§ 90.02  ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon or enclosure
without the consent of the owner of the yard, lot, or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by such animal upon the premises
of another.
   (C)   Every police officer or other authorized official shall have the
authority to apprehend any dog running at large in violation of this chapter
and to impound such dog or have such dog impounded in the appropriate place.
   (D)   City police may apprehend and destroy dogs or obvious strays that
constitute a menace to the health and welfare of the community. Police shall
take no harmful action toward dogs that have collars and rabies immunization
tags unless they are attacking a human being or destroying valuable property.
   (E)   The owner of any dog so impounded may reclaim the dog upon the payment
of all appropriate fees and after fulfilling any and all other requirements.
(Am. Ord. 96-010, passed 10-8-97)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03  CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when
except as authorized by law he or she intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in §
90.03 in causing it to fight for pleasure or profit, (including, but not
limited to being a spectator or vendor at an event where a four legged animal
is caused to fight for pleasure or profit) mutilation, beating, torturing, any
animal other than a dog or cat, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food,
drink, space, or health care, or by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his or her custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This division shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purpose;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including but not
limited to horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows, or other animal shows,
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with the U.S. Department of
Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject or other federal laws
governing animal research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
(KRS 525.130)  Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 90.04  DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits, under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05  ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon a dog, cat or other domestic
animal upon the streets of the city for the purpose of severing ownership with
the animals.
(Ord. 96-010, passed 10-8-96)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06  DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any police officer, animal control officer, or any person authorized
by the board may destroy or kill or cause to be destroyed or killed, any animal
found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or appearing to be
injured, diseased, or suffering past recovery for any useful purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal, the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian, or of two reputable citizens called by him or
her to view the animal in his or her presence, or shall obtain consent to the
destruction from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding, or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or
his or her agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, if given the owner or
his or her agent at his or her last known address, shall be deemed to be
abandoned and may be turned over to the nearest humane society, or animal
shelter or disposed of as the custodian may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed veterinarian shall relieve the licensed veterinarian and
any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
(KRS 257.100(1) - (3)) (Am. Ord. 96-010, passed 10-8-96)
§ 90.07  RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER TO REMOVE; DISPOSE OF ANIMAL FECES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or person in charge of a dog, cat,
horse or other four-footed mammal, chicken or other fowl to permit such animal
to be on school grounds, city parks or other public property, or on any private
property other than that of the owner or person in charge of control of such
animal without the permission of the owner of the property, or on any streets,
sidewalks, highways, or rights-of-way in the city, without the owner or person
in charge of such animals to have in his or her possession, a suitable device
for the picking up, collection and proper sanitary disposal of the animal's
feces or manure.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or person in charge of a dog, cat,
horse or other four-footed mammal, chicken or other fowl to permit or allow
such animal to excrete manure or feces on school grounds, city parks or other
public property, or on any private property other than that of the owner or
person in charge or control of such animal without the permission of the owner
of the property, or on any streets, sidewalks, highways, or rights-of-ways in
the city, unless the owner or person in control of such animal immediately
removes all feces deposited by such animal and disposes of same in a sanitary
manner.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to blind or visually impaired persons
accompanied by a “seeing eye” dog used for their assistance.
(Ord. 92-010, passed 9-8-92)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08  KEEPING OF LIVESTOCK WITHIN CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   Definitions.
      LIVESTOCK.  For the purpose of this chapter, LIVESTOCK is defined as
follows unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
The term LIVESTOCK means the following animals: Horses, stallions, colts,
geldings, mares, sheep, rams, lambs, bulls, bullocks, steers, heifers, cows,
calves, mules, jacks, jennets, burrows, kids, goats, swine, chicken, ducks, and
fowls.
      OWNER.  For the purpose of this chapter, the term OWNER shall mean every
person having a right or property in the animal or fowl and every person who
keeps or harbors the animals or fowl or has it in his or her care, or permits
it to remain on premises owned or occupied by him or her.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to keep within the city limits any livestock.
However, this prohibition shall not apply to regularly licensed stockyards,
slaughter houses, meat packing establishments, duly licensed public
exhibitions, and tracts of land in excess of five acres.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or person in charge of livestock to
permit or allow such animals to run at large within the city limits.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation raising or
keeping chickens, turkeys, ducks or other fowl, to allow the fowl to run at
large within the city limits.
   (E)   Any police officer of the city is authorized and empowered to issue
citations for violations of this chapter.
   (F)   This chapter shall not be construed to require the abatement of any
valid agricultural operation pursuant to KRS 413.072.
   (G)   Violation of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor and any person
or firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished with a fine not to exceed $500
and/or imprisonment of up to 12 months. Each day the violation exists shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 96-009, passed 10-8-96)
DOGS
§ 90.15  DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or person in charge of a dog to permit
such dog to be on the streets of the city unless on a leash or otherwise under
the absolute control of the owner or his agent.
(Ord. 93-003, passed  -  -93)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16  NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to fail to exercise proper care and
control of his animals to prevent them from becoming a public nuisance.
Excessive continuous barking, or making such noises to disturb the peace and
the quiet of the neighborhood at any time during the night or day; molesting
passer-by, chasing vehicles, trespassing upon private property in such manner
as to damage property; and habitually attacking other domestic animals is
declared a public nuisance.
(Ord. 93-003, passed  -  -93; Am. Ord. 96-010, passed 10-8-96)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17  KEEPING OF VICIOUS DOG.
   No person shall harbor or keep any dog which shall bite or attack any
person, such dog at the time of biting or attack not being within the owner's
property.
(Ord. 93-003, passed  -  -93)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18  RIGHT OF ENTRY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER TO INVESTIGATE VIOLATION.
   Any police officer of the city is authorized and empowered to issue
citations for the violations of this chapter. Any law enforcement officer or
other lawfully-designated authority has the power, upon presentation of
property credentials, to enter and inspect any dwelling, multi-family dwelling,
building, structure or premises within the city as may be necessary to enforce
the provisions of this chapter.  Needed permission is to be obtained from the
occupant or, in the case of unoccupied property, from the owner or his agent. 
If such permission is refused or is otherwise unobtainable, a search warrant
must be obtained upon the showing of probable cause to believe that a violation
of §§
90.19 through 90.21 of this chapter may exit, before such entry or inspection
is made.
(Ord. 93-003, passed - -93; Am. Ord. 96-010, passed 10-8-96)
§ 90.19  DOGS TO BE VACCINATED AGAINST RABIES.
   Every dog owner who resides within the city limits shall have his dog
initially vaccinated by the age of four months and revaccinated against rabies
at the expiration of the immunization period as certified by a veterinarian.
(Ord. 96-010, passed 10-8-96)
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense.  Each day
the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
90.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500,
imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both for each offense.  (KRS
525.130)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
90.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500.  (KRS 436.600)
   (D)   Any person who violates §§
90.07, or
90.15 through
90.17 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $100 for each offense.  Each day's continued violation shall
constitute a separate offense. 
(Ord. 92-010, passed 9-8-92; Ord. 93-003, passed - -93)
CHAPTER 91:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.001   Campaign advertising on city rights-of-way
   
91.002   Vending machines on public ways prohibited
Excavations and Construction
   
91.015   Opening permit required
   
91.016   Application and cash deposit
   
91.017   Restoration of pavement
   
91.018   Barriers around excavations
   
91.019   Warning lights
   
91.020   Sidewalk construction
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.030   Public hearing required
   
91.031   Notice requirements
   
91.032   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
91.033   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
91.034   Separate hearing for each project not required
   
91.035   Exemptions from hearing requirement
Obstructions
   
91.045   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.046   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.047   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.048   Removal of ice and snow
Property Numbers and Street Names
   
91.060   Establishment of system for numbering buildings
   
91.061   Establishment of base lines
   
91.062   Numbering of buildings in relation to base lines
   
91.063   Method of assigning numbers
   
91.064   Numbering when streets do not extend to base line
   
91.065   Posting of numbers; specifications
   
91.066   Property numbering map
   
91.067   Duties of Planning Commission relating to property numbering
   
91.068   Procurement and posting of number required for issuance of building
permit
   
91.069   Street naming plan
   
91.070   Subdivision plats to show street names
   
91.071   Power of Mayor and City Council to name streets
   
91.072   Identification for 911 purposes
Sidewalk Repair
   
91.085   Unsafe sidewalk conditions
   
91.086   Owner’s responsibility for sidewalk repair
   
91.087   Notice to owner to undertake repairs; time limit
   
91.088   Property owner responsible for work; cost of repairs
   
91.089   Inspection of work by city; notice if unsatisfactory
   
91.090   Work done by city; interest and lien
   
91.091   Rule making authority of Mayor
   
91.092   Installation payments
 
   
91.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Street trees, see §§
98.30 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.001  CAMPAIGN ADVERTISING ON CITY RIGHTS-OF-WAY PROHIBITED.
   No person or other entity shall place any kind of campaign advertising on
any structure located within the city rights-of-way.  This shall include, but
not be limited to, telephone poles, light poles or other structures lying
between city sidewalks and streets within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 73-02, passed 7-3-73)  Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.002  VENDING MACHINES ON PUBLIC WAYS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any one to place, or cause to be placed, any
vending machine on any public sidewalk or other public throughway within the
city limits.
(Ord. 80-09, passed 4-1-80)  Penalty, see §
91.999
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.015  OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.016  APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized city official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the legislative body, giving the exact location of the
proposed opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated, and
such other facts as may be provided for.  The permit shall be issued only after
a cash deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with
the authorized city official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory
refilling of excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 91.017  RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized city
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and specifications
approved by the legislative body.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make such fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in § 91.02
shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the appropriate
city fund, except such part demanded and paid to the permittee as the
difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration
services performed by it.  If the amount of such services performed by the city
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
§ 91.018  BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.019  WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.020  SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized city official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city.  He shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the legislative body for
approval.  When the specifications are approved, the legislative body shall
advertise for proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the city in
construction and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the Mayor to contract
therefor, for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible
bidder, who shall for the faithful performance of the work.  The Mayor, if
authorized by City Council, may make separate contracts for the different kinds
of work with different parties.
Statutory reference:
   Sidewalks; construction along public roads; specifications, see KRS 178.290
   Sidewalks; ramps for wheelchairs, see KRS 66.660
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.030  PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street, or bridge it shall hold a hearing in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter to take the sense of the public with regard to
the project and to priorities for use of tax moneys for road and bridge
purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 91.031  NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall hold a public hearing for the
purpose of taking the sense of the public with regard to road and bridge
matters within the city.  Notice of the hearing shall be given not less than
seven days nor more than 21 days before the scheduled date of the public
hearing and before beginning work on any project covered by this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(1))
§ 91.032  PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   (A)   At the hearing any person may speak with regard to any proposed
project, any project which he feels should be built or done which has not been
proposed, priorities for completion of projects, and any other matter related
to road or bridge projects.
   (B)   The city shall not be bound by the testimony heard at the hearing but
shall give due consideration to it.
(KRS 174.100(2),(3))
§ 91.033  HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state derived tax revenues are involved until the hearing as provided herein
has been held.  (KRS 174.100(4))
§ 91.034  SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate hearing for
each project.  A single hearing encompassing the entire road and bridge
program, provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at
the hearing, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(5))
§ 91.035  EXEMPTIONS FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair
or replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or man-caused
disasters nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to projects which
are under construction as of the effective date of this subchapter unless
construction is suspended after the effective date of this subchapter and the
city desires to reactivate the project. (KRS 174.100(6),(7))
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.045  UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.046  STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon.  Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.047  MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk.  No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see § 91.99
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see
Ch. 94
§ 91.048  REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his premises free and clear of snow and ice to the extent
feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove therefrom all
snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, a
reasonable time which will ordinarily not exceed 12 hours after the abatement
of any storm during which the snow and ice may have accumulated.
Penalty, see § 91.99
PROPERTY NUMBERS AND STREET NAMES
§ 91.060  ESTABLISHMENT OF SYSTEM FOR NUMBERING BUILDINGS.
   There is established a uniform system for numbering buildings fronting on
all streets, avenues, and public ways in the city and all houses and other
buildings shall be numbered in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 9-6-88) 
§ 91.061  ESTABLISHMENT OF BASE LINES.
   (A)   There shall be two base lines which divide the city into east and west
parts.  With the area of the city lying north and east of Paint Creek,
including areas east of the Big Sandy River, the base line will run from the
intersection of Main Street and Euclid Avenue to Paint Creek and from that
point up the hill.  For the area of the city south and west of Paint Creek, the
base line will run from a point upstream from the walk bridge over Paint Creek,
descending to Paint Creek and ascending the hill, so that all houses on
Hencliff be situated to the east side of the line.
   (B)   Paint Creek shall constitute the base line which will divide the city
into northern and southern parts. Hereafter all streets north of this base line
and running in a northerly-southerly direction shall be considered “North”
streets, and likewise all streets south of this base line and running generally
in a northerly-southerly direction shall be considered “South” streets. 
Hereafter, streets East of this base lines running in a generally easterly-
westerly direction shall be considered “East” streets and likewise streets West
of these base lines and running in a generally easterly-westerly direction
shall be considered “West” streets.
(Ord. passed 9-6-88)  Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.062  NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS IN RELATION TO BASE LINES.
   (A)   Each building north of Paint Creek and facing a street running in a
northerly direction shall carry a number and address indicating its location
north of the base streets.
   (B)   Each building south of the north-south base line and facing a street
running a southerly direction shall carry a number and address indicating its
location south of the base streets.
   (C)   Each building east of the east-west base lines and facing a street
running in an easterly direction shall carry a number and address indicating
its location east of the base line.
   (D)   Each building west of the east-west base lines and facing a street
running in a westerly direction shall carry a number and address indicating its
location west of the base line.
   (E)   All buildings on diagonal streets shall be numbered the same as
buildings on northerly and southerly streets if the diagonal runs more from the
north to the south, and the same rule shall apply on easterly and westerly
streets if the diagonal runs more from the east to the west.
   (F)   Mayo Trail, also presently known as U.S. Highway 23, will be
considered north-south street with its base line at the east-west base line
south of Paint Creek.  All buildings on Mayo Trail shall include the
designation north or south as part of the number.
(Ord. passed 9-6-88)  Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.063  METHOD OF ASSIGNING NUMBERS.
   The numbering of buildings on each street shall begin at the base line.  All
numbers shall be assigned on the basis of one number for each 20 feet of
frontage along the street.  The property numbering map shall indicate the point
at which numbers will change from 100 to the next higher hundred.  All
buildings on the south of east-west streets and west of north-south streets
shall bear odd numbers, likewise all buildings on the north side of east-west
streets and east of north-south streets shall bear even numbers.
   (A)   Where any commercial buildings have more than one entrance serving
separate occupants, a separate number shall be assigned to each entrance
serving an occupant.
   (B)   A multiple-family dwelling having only one main entrance shall be
assigned only one number, and separate apartments in the building will carry a
letter designation such as A, B, C, in addition to the number assigned to the
main entrance of the building.  (Ord. passed 9-6-88) 
§ 91.064  NUMBERING WHEN STREETS DO NOT EXTEND TO BASE LINE.
   All buildings facing streets not extending through to the base line shall be
assigned the same relative numbers as if the street extended to the base line.
(Ord. passed 9-6-88)  Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.065  POSTING OF NUMBERS; SPECIFICATIONS.
   Numbers shall be placed on existing buildings on or before the effective
date of this subchapter [i.e., September 6, 1988], and within 20 days after the
assigning of the proper number in the case of numbers assigned after the
effective date of this subchapter [i.e., September 6, 1988].  The cost of the
numbers shall be paid for by the property owner and the numbers used shall not
be less than five inches in height and shall be made of a durable and clearly
visible material.  Numbers shall be conspicuously placed immediately above, on
or at the side of the proper door of each building so that the number can be
seen plainly from the street line.  Whenever any building is situated more than
50 feet from the street line, the number of the building shall be placed, near
the walk, driveway or common entrance to such building upon a gatepost, fence,
tree, post, or other appropriate place so as to be easily discernible from the
sidewalk.
(Ord. passed 9-6-88)  Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.066  PROPERTY NUMBERING MAP.
   For the purpose of facilitating a correct numbering, a property numbering
map of all streets, avenues, and public ways within the city showing the proper
numbers of all houses or other buildings fronting upon all streets, avenues, or
public ways shall be kept on file in the office of the Planning Commission and
the office of the City Clerk.  These maps shall be open to inspection for all
persons during the office hours of the city.
(Ord. passed 9-6-88) 
§ 91.067  DUTIES OF PLANNING COMMISSION RELATING TO PROPERTY NUMBERING.
   It shall be the duty of the Planning Commission to inform any party applying
therefore of the number belonging to or embraced within the limits of any lot
or property as provided in this subchapter.  In case of conflict as to the
proper number to be assigned to any building, the Planning Commission shall
determine the number of such building.
(Ord. passed 9-6-88) 
Cross-reference:
   Planning Commission, see Title XV
§ 91.068  PROCUREMENT AND POSTING OF NUMBER REQUIRED FOR ISSUANCE OF BUILDING
PERMIT.
   Whenever any house, building, or structure shall be erected or located in
the city after the establishment of a uniform system of house and building
numbering has been completed, in order to preserve the continuity and
uniformity of numbers of the houses, buildings, and structures, it shall be the
duty of the owner to procure the correct number or numbers as designated from
the Planning Commission for the property and to immediately fasten the number
or numbers so assigned upon the building as provided by this subchapter.  No
building permit shall be issued for any house, building, or structure until the
owner has procured from the Planning Commission the official number of the
premises.  Final approval of any structure erected, repaired, altered, or
modified after the effective date of this subchapter [i.e., September 6, 1988]
shall be withheld by the Building Inspector until permanent and proper numbers
have been affixed to the structure.
(Ord. passed 9-6-88)  Penalty, see §
91.999
Cross-reference:
   Building regulations, see
Chapter 150
§ 91.069  STREET NAMING PLAN.
   For the purpose of clarifying and systematizing the present street naming
pattern in the city and to implement the application of the matters set forth
in §
91.068, the Planning and Zoning Commission:
   (A)   Is authorized to recommend changes in naming of streets, avenues, and
public ways within the city to the Mayor and City Commission.
   (B)   Shall follow the general plan set forth in this subchapter.
   (C)   If it sees fit, may hold public hearings at which interested property
owners may express their views concerning the changing of the name of names
of.any street.
(Ord. passed 9-6-88) 
§ 91.070  SUBDIVISION PLATS TO SHOW STREET NAMES.
   Every subdivision plat submitted to the Planning Commission for their
approval after the effective date of this subchapter [i.e., September 6, 1988]
shall show the proper names of any and all streets and these streets
designations shall be approved by the Planning Commission before such new
streets are officially named.
(Ord. passed 9-6-88) 
Cross-reference:
   Subdivisions, see Title XV
§ 91.071  POWER OF MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL TO NAME STREETS.
   The Mayor and City Council by resolution may change, rename, or name an
existing or newly established street within the limits of the city at any time
after the adoption of this subchapter upon recommendation of the Planning
Commission.
(Ord. passed 9-6-88) 
§ 91.072  IDENTIFICATION FOR 911 PURPOSES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the 911 coordinator to inform any party
applying therefor of the number belonging to or embraced within the limits of
any lot or property as provided in this subchapter. In case of conflict as to
the proper number to be assigned to any building, the 911 coordinator shall
determine the number of such building.
   (B)   Whenever any house, building or structure shall be erected or located
in the City of Paintsville, after the establishment of a uniform system of
house and building numbering has been completed, in order to preserve the
continuity and uniformity of numbers of the houses, buildings and structures,
it shall be the duty of the owner to procure the correct number or numbers as
designated from the 911 coordinator for the property and to immediately fasten
the number or numbers so assigned upon the building as provided by this
subchapter. No building permit shall be issued for any house, building or
structure until the owner has procured from the 911 coordinator the official
number of the premises. Final approval of any structure erected, repaired,
altered or modified after the effective date of this section shall be withheld
by the city Building Inspector until permanent and proper numbers have been
affixed to the structure.
(Ord. 2006-003, passed 7-18-06)
SIDEWALK REPAIR
§ 91.085  UNSAFE SIDEWALK CONDITIONS.
   The following sidewalk conditions are determined to be contrary to general
welfare and require that sidewalk blocks, including bricks and paving stones,
in such condition to be repaired or the condition to be alleviated, as directed
by the Superintendent of Public Works:
   (A)   Any block having a crack or cracks in it more than 5/8-inch wide.
   (B)   Adjoining blocks or portions thereof whose edges differ vertically by
more than 5/8 inch.
   (C)   Blocks that have holes in them 5/8 inch or more in diameter or are
cracked and broken so that pieces are missing or loose.
   (D)   Blocks having depressions, reverse cross-slope (sloping away from the
street) or below curb grade so as to impound mud or water.
   (E)   Blocks having a cross slope in excess of 3/4-inch vertical per one
foot horizontal.
   (F)   Blocks that cause an abrupt change in the longitudinal grade of the
sidewalk.
   (G)   Blocks that are ravelled, such as, the surface has spelled or severely
cracked.
   (H)   Blocks containing stumps, private sign posts or other unauthorized
obstructions in the sidewall space.
   (I)   Blocks containing water stop-boxes, gas stop-boxes or similar items
that are not at grade level.
   (J)   Sidewalks located so that the sod area between the sidewalk and street
protrudes above the sidewalk thereby impounding water or causing water to drain
along the sidewalk or so that the sod areas on either side of the sidewalk is
below the grade of the sidewalk.
(Ord. 91-002, passed 3-12-91) 
§ 91.086  OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY FOR SIDEWALK REPAIR.
   Every person owning real estate in the city is charged with the
responsibility of maintaining and shall maintain and keep in proper repair,
that portion of the sidewalk which parallels and/or abuts the street and lies
within the street right-of-way immediately in front of their, along side of or
in the rear of the person's real estate.
(Ord. 91-002, passed 3-12-91) 
§ 91.087  NOTICE TO OWNER TO UNDERTAKE REPAIRS; TIME LIMIT.
   Whenever any block of sidewalk or sidewalk area requires repair in
accordance with §§
91.085 and
91.086, the Mayor shall notify in writing the persons owning the real estate
who are responsible for repairing the blocks of the sidewalk or sidewalk area
under the provisions of §§
91.085 and
91.086 to the effect that such repairs shall be commenced within 60 days and
completed within 90 days of the date of the mailing of the notice to the last
known address of such persons.  Records maintained by the Johnson County
Property Valuation Administrator may be relied upon to determine the identity
and address of the person.  Receipt of such notice shall be presumed
conclusively unless and until notification of a change of address of such owner
is received by the city.
(Ord. 91-002, passed 3-12-91) 
§ 91.088  PROPERTY OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR WORK; COST OF REPAIRS.
   Within the time set forth in §
91.087, any person thereby affected shall commence and complete the sidewalk
repairs in an orderly and workmanlike manner in accordance with applicable
subdivision regulations for the installation of sidewalks and the cost of such
repairs shall be borne by the persons responsible under the provisions of §§
91.085 and
91.086.
(Ord. 91-002, passed 3-12-91) 
§ 91.089  INSPECTION OF WORK BY CITY; NOTICE IF UNSATISFACTORY.
   If, in the judgment of the Superintendent of Public Works, work performed by
the persons responsible under §§
91.085 and
91.086 is unsatisfactory, or has not been performed in accordance with the
applicable city specifications, the Mayor shall give written notice thereof to
the persons responsible under §§
91.085 and
91.086 and shall proceed under the provisions of §
91.090.
(Ord. 91-002, passed 3-12-91) 
§ 91.090  WORK DONE BY CITY; INTEREST AND LIEN.
   Upon failure of the persons responsible under §§
91.086 and
91.086 to undertake complete repair of the blocks of sidewalk or the sidewalk
area within the time specified herein, the city shall undertake, without
further notification to the owner, to make such repairs at the expense of the
persons responsible under §§
91.085 and
91.086.  Upon completion of the work by the city, the city shall notify and
bill the responsible persons for the costs therein incurred, plus an
administration charge equal to 20% of the costs.  The total charge, together
with interest at 10% per annum on the unpaid balance thereof commencing from
the date of the bill until paid, shall be due and owing by the responsible
persons to the city and shall constitute a lien on the real estate to secure
payment in full thereof.  Such charge shall be in lieu of assessment on the
part of the city for the making of such repairs.  If payment is made in full
within 30 days after the date of the bill, interest will be waived and a
discount equal to 10% of the total charge shall be credited against the bill.
(Ord. 91-002, passed 3-12-91) 
§ 91.091  RULE MAKING AUTHORITY OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall have the power to adopt and promulgate rules and regulations
to interpret and implement the provisions of §§
91.085 through
91.091 of this subchapter to secure the intent thereof and to designate
requirements applicable because of local climatic or other conditions.
(Ord. 91-002, passed 3-12-91) 
§ 91.092  INSTALLATION PAYMENTS.
   (A)   In lieu of payment in full for work done by the city and charged to
the persons responsible under §§
91.085 and
91.086, the persons may, within 30 days commencing from the date of the bill,
elect to pay the charge in five equal annual installments by executing, within
the 30-day period, an installment option agreement requesting the right to pay
in installments and containing the applicable provisions as set forth herein,
the agreement, to be effective, must be executed and filed with the City
Treasurer within the 30-day period.
   (B)   If the date of the bill is less than six months prior to the next
succeeding October 1, the responsible persons, at the time they execute the
installment option agreement, shall pay to the City Clerk an amount equal to
interest on the total amount of the charge at the rate of 10% per annum
computed from the date of the bill to a date six months beyond the next
succeeding October 1.  If the
date of the bill is more than six months prior to the next succeeding October
1, the responsible persons, at the time they execute the installment option
agreement, shall pay to the City Treasurer the first installment of 1/5 of the
total charge, together with an amount equal to interest on the unpaid
installments of the charge at the rate of 10% per annum, computed from the date
of the bill to a date six months prior to the next succeeding October 1.
   (C)   In the situation where the next succeeding October 1 will occur less
than six months from the date of the bill, an installment equal to 1/5 of their
total charge shall be payable by the responsible persons at the second
succeeding October 1 following the date of the bill.  Annually thereafter on
October 1, an additional 1/5 shall be due until the charge is paid in full.  In
the situation where the next succeeding October 1 will occur more than six
months from the date of the bill, the second installment of 1/5 of their total
charge shall be payable by the responsible persons at the October 1 next
succeeding the date of the bill.  Annually thereafter on October 1, an
additional 1/5 shall be due until the charge is paid in full.
   (D)   At the time that an installment is due, under either of the foregoing
situations, there shall also be due interest for one year on the installments
that will thereafter remain unpaid plus interest for six months on the
installment then being paid; except that when the last installment is paid, the
only interest due shall be six months interest on the installment then being
paid. The interest shall be at the rate of 10% per annum.  Any responsible
person may pay the entire amount of their unpaid charge together with six
months interest on that amount at any due date for an installment, and such
shall constitute full payment of the charge.  The City Treasurer may place upon
the regular city tax bills for ad valorem real estate taxes each installment as
due, with the interest payments then due.
   (E)   If any sum due hereunder is not paid before the November 1 next
succeeding the date it is due, then the sum shall become subject to interest
and penalty the same as for ad valorem real estate taxes under Chapter 35 of
this code or any other applicable ordinance of the city and shall be
collectible and be collected in the same manner and by the same methods and
remedies as such ad valorem city taxes.
(Ord. 91-002, passed 3-12-91) 
§ 91.999  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $500.
CHAPTER 92:  NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.03   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
92.04   Abatement procedure
   
92.05   Nuisance created by others
   
92.06   Suspension of license
Responsibilities of Commercial Establishments
   
92.20   Purpose
   
92.21   Application
   
92.22   Allowing materials to accumulate on public way prohibited
   
92.23   Property to be free of weeds, rubbish and the like
   
92.24   Investigation of complaints
   
92.25   Abatement procedure
Methamphetamine Manufacture
   
92.30   Housing decontamination
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Private nuisances, see KRS 411.500 - 411.570
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS.  Any portion or parts of any motor driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   INOPERATIVE CONDITION.  Unable to move under its own power due to defective
or missing parts, and which has remained in such condition for a period of not
less than ten consecutive days.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Any style or type of motor driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   NUISANCE.  Public nuisance.
   SCRAP METAL.  Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum,
or any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE.  In a dangerous condition; having defective or
missing parts; or in such a condition generally as to be unfit for further use
as a conveyance.
§ 92.02  COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of Kentucky as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided
in this chapter or in accordance with any other provision of law.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03  CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control or
management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance to develop
thereon.  The following conditions are declared to be public nuisances:
   (A)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street.  Any tree, stack, or other
object standing in such a condition that it will, if the condition is allowed
to continue, endanger the life, limb, or property of, or cause hurt, damage, or
injury to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways adjacent
thereto, by the falling thereof or of parts thereof.
   (B)   Accumulation of rubbish.  An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage, or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare, or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful
enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger
that it will catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents,
or insects, or blow rubbish into any street, sidewalk, or property of another.
   (C)   Storage of explosives.  The storage of explosive material which
creates a safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity.
   (D)   Weeds and grass.  The excessive growth of weeds, grass, or other
vegetation.  Unless otherwise provided, EXCESSIVE shall mean growth to a height
of 12 inches or more.
   (E)   Open wells.  The maintenance of any open, uncovered, or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation, or vault situated upon private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place.
   (F)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets, sidewalks, and drainage.  The
growing and maintenance of trees or shrubbery which in any way interferes with
the use, construction, or maintenance of streets or sidewalks, causes injury to
streets or sidewalks, or constitutes an obstruction to drainage.
   (G)   Keeping of animals.  The failure to keep an animal's pen, yard, lot,
or other enclosure in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive
odors.
   (H)   Junk; scrap metal; motor vehicles.  The storage of motor vehicles in
an inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for further use, automobile
parts, or scrap metal within the city limits except on premises authorized by
the city for such purposes.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04  ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, it shall be
unlawful for the owner, occupant or person having control or management of any
land within the city to permit a public nuisance, health hazard, or source of
filth to develop thereon through the accumulation of:
      (1)   Junked or wrecked automobiles, vehicles, machines, or other similar
scrap or salvage materials, excluding inoperative farm equipment;
      (2)   One or more mobile or manufactured homes as defined in KRS 227.550
that are junked, wrecked, or nonoperative and which are not inhabited;
      (3)   Rubbish; or
      (4)   The excessive growth of weeds or grass.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A)(1) of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Junked, wrecked, or nonoperative automobiles, vehicles, machines,
or other similar scrap or salvage materials located on the business premises of
a licensed automotive recycling dealer as defined under the provisions of KRS
190.010(8);
      (2)   Junked, wrecked, or nonoperative motor vehicles, including parts
cars, stored on private real property by automobile collectors, whether as a
hobby or a profession, if these motor vehicles and parts cars are stored out of
ordinary public view by means of suitable fencing, trees, shrubbery, or other
means; and
      (3)   Any motor vehicle that is owned, controlled, operated, managed, or
leased by a motor carrier.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful in the city for the owner of a property to permit
any structure upon the property to become unfit and unsafe for human
habitation, occupancy, or use or to permit conditions to exist in the structure
which are dangerous or injurious to the health or safety of the occupants of
the structure, the occupants of neighboring structures, or other residents of
the city.
   (D)   The city may establish by ordinance reasonable standards and
procedures for the enforcement of this section. The procedures shall comply
with all applicable statutes, administrative regulations, or codes. Proper
notice shall be given to property owners before any action is taken pursuant to
this section; and, prior to the demolition of any unfit or unsafe structure,
the right to a hearing shall be afforded the property owner.
   (E)   Unless imminent danger exists on the subject property that
necessitates immediate action, the city government shall send, within 14 days
of a final determination after hearing or waiver of hearing by the property
owner, a copy of the determination to any lien holder of record of the subject
property by first-class mail with proof of mailing. The lien holder of record
may, within 45 days from receipt of that notice, correct the violations cited
or elect to pay all fines, penalty charges, and costs incurred in remedying the
situation as permitted by division (F) of this section.
   (F)   The city shall have a lien against the property for the reasonable
value of labor and materials used in remedying the situation. The affidavit of
the responsible officer shall constitute prima facie evidence of the amount of
the lien and the regularity of the proceedings pursuant to this statute, and
shall be recorded in the office of the county clerk. The lien shall be notice
to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear interest
thereafter until paid. The lien created shall take precedence over all other
liens, except state, county, school board, and city taxes, except as provided
in division (G) of this section. The lien may be enforced by judicial
proceeding.
   (G)   The lien provided in division (F) of this section shall not take
precedence or priority over a previously recorded lien if:
      (1)   The city government failed to provide the lien holder a copy of the
determination in accordance with division (E) of this section; or
      (2)   The lien holder received a copy of the determination as required by
division (E) of this section, and the lien holder corrected the violations or
paid the fines, penalty charges, and costs incurred in remedying the violation.
   (H)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (D) of this section
or any other remedy authorized by law, the owner of a property upon which a
lien has been attached pursuant to this section shall be personally liable for
the amount of the lien, including all interest, civil penalties, and other
charges and the city may bring a civil action against the owner and shall have
the same remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt owed. The failure of
the city government to comply with division (E) of this section, and the
failure of a lien to take precedence over previously filed liens as provided in
division (G) of this section, shall not limit or restrict any remedies that the
city government has against the owner of the property.
   (I)   The provisions of divisions (D), (F), and (H) of this section shall
not apply to an owner, occupant, or person having control or management of any
land located in an unincorporated area if the owner, occupant, or person is not
the generator of the rubbish or is not dumping or knowingly allowing the
dumping of the rubbish and has made reasonable efforts to prevent the dumping
of rubbish by other persons onto the property.
§ 92.05  NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant, or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invites, guests, or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care ought to have become aware of.
§ 92.06  SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Whenever it is brought to the attention of the City Council that a
nuisance exists and the City Council deems that there is an immediate threat to
the public health, safety, or welfare, the City Council may by majority vote
suspend the license of any person conducting business upon the premises where
the nuisance exists.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall cause notice of the suspension to be served
personally upon the licensee or at the premises where the nuisance exists.
   (C)   Upon application of the licensee, the City Council may remove the
suspension upon such terms as it may direct.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 92.20  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter shall be to insure to the citizens and
residents of the city that the public roadways, sidewalks and thoroughfares
shall be free of mud, dirt, garbage and any other material or substance which
by wind or water runoff or other method finds itself in the public roadway,
sidewalk or other public thoroughfare.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 4-6-81)
§ 92.21  APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall apply to any commercial activity or business for which
a portion of the property utilized in that activity is designed for storage,
parking and display of vehicles, or any other activity which may cause directly
or indirectly the depositing or transfer of mud, dirt, garbage or any other
material or substance by wind, water or tracking of vehicles of those
substances to any public roadway, sidewalk or adjacent residential property.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 4-6-81)
2012 S-10
§ 92.22  ALLOWING MATERIALS TO ACCUMULATE ON PUBLIC WAYS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be the duty of each property owner and/or the operator of any
commercial establishment to assure that property utilized in his commercial
activity does not allow mud, dirt, garbage or any material or substance to find
its way in the public roadways, sidewalks or thoroughfares by means of wind,
water runoff or vehicles carrying the materials from his property to the public
thoroughfare.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 4-6-81)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.23  PROPERTY TO BE FREE OF WEEDS, RUBBISH AND THE LIKE.
   It shall also be the duty of the owner and/or operator of any commercial
establishments which are adjacent to residential areas or public thoroughfares
to maintain their property by not allowing weeds, bushes or grass to exceed 18
inches at any time.  Lots must be free of building materials, rubbish and/or
trash or surplus material.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 4-6-81)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.24  INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   All citizen complaints shall be investigated by the Police Department.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 4-6-81)
§ 92.25  ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   The procedure for abatement of a violation of this subchapter shall be set
forth in §
92.04.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 4-6-81)
METHAMPHETAMINE MANUFACTURE
§ 92.30  HOUSING DECONTAMINATION.
   (A)   Any unit, both commercial and residential, contained within the city
limits of the City of Paintsville, Kentucky, which has been used for the
production of methamphetamine is hereby deemed uninhabitable.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of the property so
identified to ensure that all necessary decontamination steps are completed
before the property in question can be inhabited by further occupants. The
Paintsville Police Department shall notify the City Clerk of the City of
Paintsville of all commercial and residential units in the city limits that
have been identified as places in which methamphetamine was manufactured.
   (C)   The decontamination standard for methamphetamine inside inhabitable
property is less than or equal to one tenth of one microgram of methamphetamine
per 100 square centimeters of surface materials.
   (D)   Prior to the occupation of the property in question by additional
occupants, the City of Paintsville shall receive a letter of confirmation from
the property owner along with documentation from the entity who or that
completed the decontamination that the unit has been properly decontaminated.
(Ord. 2006-001, passed 5-2-06)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense.  Each day's
continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 93:  FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
93.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
93.03   Consumer fireworks; restrictions on sale
   
93.04   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
93.05   Exempted sales and uses
   
93.06   Destruction of fireworks
Fire Prevention
   
93.20   Blasting permit
   
93.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01  DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, FIREWORKS means any composition or
device for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by
combustion, deflagration, or detonation, and which meets the definition of
"consumer fireworks" as defined in division (B) or "display" fireworks as
defined in division (D) and as set forth in the U.S. Department of
Transportation's (DOT) hazardous materials regulations.  FIREWORKS does not
include:
      (1)   Exception number 1:  Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to said regulations, are not
considered to be fireworks and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times.
      (2)   Exception number 2:  Model rockets and model rocket motors
designed, sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models
are not considered to be fireworks.
      (3)   Exception number 3:  Propelling or expelling charges consisting of
a mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and saltpeter are not considered as being
designed for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   As used in KRS 227.700 through 227.750, CONSUMER FIREWORKS means
fireworks that are suitable for use by the public, designed primarily to
produce visible effects by combustion, and comply with the construction,
chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the U.S. Consumer Product
Safety Commission. The types, sizes, and amount of pyrotechnic contents of
these devices are limited as enumerated in this chapter.  Some small devices
designed to produce audible effects are included, such as whistling devices,
ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive composition, and
aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive composition. 
Consumer fireworks are further defined by the Consumer Product Safety
Commission in CPSC, 16 CFR Pts. 1500 and 1507, are classified as Division 1.4G
explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation and include the following:
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler.  These devices consist a
metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition. 
Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is produced. 
Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. 
Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed five
grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.  Wire sparklers which contain no
magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are not
included in this category, in accordance with DOT regulations.
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain.  Cylindrical tube containing not more than
75 grams of pyrotechnic composition.  Upon ignition, a shower of colored
sparks, and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced.  This device
may be provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a
wood or plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or
cardboard handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than
one tube is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not
exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on
the base by a distance of at least 1/2 inch.
         (c)   Cone fountain.  Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to
50 grams of pyrotechnic composition.  The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain. When more than one cone is mounted on a common base, the
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least 1/
2 inch.
         (d)   Illuminating torch.  Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition.  Upon ignition, colored fire is produced.  May be
spike, base, or hand-held. When more than one tube is mounted on a common base,
the total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least 1/
2 inch.
         (e)   Wheel.  A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail
or string.  A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition.  No wheel may contain more than
200 grams total pyrotechnic composition.  Upon ignition, the wheel revolves,
producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling effect.
         (f)   Ground spinner.  Small device containing not more than 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited.  A shower of sparks and color is produced by
the rapidly spinning device.
         (g)   Flitter sparkler.  Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is
ignited to make the device function.
         (h)   Toy smoke device.  Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces
white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets.  Cylindrical tube containing not
more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition.  Sky rockets contain a wooden
stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition.  A burst
of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight.
         (b)   Missile-type rocket.  A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability.
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner.  A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition.  A propeller or blade is attached, which, upon
ignition, lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air.  A visible or audible
effect is produced at the height of flight.
         (d)   Roman candles.  Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to
20 grams of pyrotechnic composition.  Upon ignition, up to ten stars (pellets
of pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are
individually expelled at several second intervals.
         (e)   Mine, shell.  Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to
a wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect
composition).  Upon ignition, "stars," components producing reports containing
up to 130 milligrams of explosive composition per report, or other devices are
propelled into the air.  The term "mine" refers to a device with no internal
components containing a bursting charge, and the term "shell" refers to a
device that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in the air.  A
mine or shell device may contain more than one tube provided the tubes fire in
sequence upon ignition of one external fuse.  The term "cake" refers to a
dense-packed collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical composition
including lift charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed 200 grams.
The maximum quantity of lift charge in any one tube of a mine or shell device
shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting charge
in any component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical
composition in the component.  The tube remains on the ground.
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube.  A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE), or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed 1 3/4 inches. In addition, the maximum quantity of lift charge in any
shell shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting
charge in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical
composition in the shell.  The total chemical composition of all the shells in
a kit, including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams.  The user lowers a
shell into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fuse extending
out of the top of the tube.  After the firing, the tube is then reloaded with
another shell for the next firing.  All launching tubes shall be capable of
firing twice the number of shells in the kit without failure of the tube.  Each
package of multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning label
requirements of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes.  Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition.  Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report.  Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced.
         (b)   Chaser.  Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition.  A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced. 
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50
milligrams.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed below are classified as NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS
and are not classified as consumer fireworks by the U.S. Department of
Transportation, and their transportation, storage, retail sale, possession,
sale, and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times.
      (1)   Snake, glow worm.  Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning.  The ash expands in length as
the pellet burns.  These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2)   Smoke device.  Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
2012 S-10
      (3)   Wire sparkler.  Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition.  These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed 100 grams of composition per item.  Devices
containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams of
composition per item.
      (4)   Trick noisemaker.  Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user.  These devices include:
         (a)   Party popper.  Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than 16 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction sensitive.  A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report.
         (b)   Booby trap.  Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design.  The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
         (c)   Snapper.  Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand.  When dropped, the
device explodes producing a small report.
         (d)   Trick match.  Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition.  Upon ignition of the
match a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
         (e)   Cigarette load.  Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition.  Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced.
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm.  Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited.  A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams may also be used to produce a small
report.  A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   As used in KRS 227.700 through 227.750, DISPLAY FIREWORKS means
pyrotechnic devices or large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration or detonation.  This term includes,
but is not limited to, firecrackers containing more than two grains (130
milligrams) of explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than 40
grams of pyrotechnic composition, and other display pieces which exceed the
limits for classification as consumer fireworks.  Display fireworks are defined
by the Consumer Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 CFR Pts. 1500 and 1507,
and are classified as Class B explosives by the U.S. Department of
Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   Legality of items.
      (1)    Items described in division (B) above are legal for retail sale
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
      (2)   Items described in division (D) are not legal for retail sale but
are legal under permits granted pursuant to this chapter for the purposes
specified in this chapter for public displays and may be sold at wholesale as
provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) are legal for retail sale provided
all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are met.
(KRS 227.708)
   (F)   Age requirement.  No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or
sell any consumer fireworks listed in KRS 227.702 to any person under 18 years
of age.
(227.715)
§ 93.02  SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, co-partnership or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, keep with intent to sell, possess, use, or explode,
any display fireworks, except as follows:
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department or other authorized city
official may grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the
city, fair associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of
individuals. 
      (2)   Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator to
be approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be
of such character, and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or endanger
any person. 
      (3)   COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks display. 
The competent display operator shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
Firearms, and Explosives (ATF) license and have participated as an assistant in
firing at least five public displays.  A COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR is also an
employee possessor.  A permit under division (A)(1) shall be issued only to a
competent display operator holding an ATF license.
      (4)   At least one competent display operator shall be on site during
display set-up and firing.  This complement display operator shall maintain a
copy of the permit application, as signed by the local authority having
jurisdiction as identified in this section, on site and at all times the
display is in place, and shall be presented on demand of the State Fire Marshal
or local Fire Chief.  All public displays that require issuance of a permit
shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of National Fire
Protection Association (NFPA) 1123 Code for Fireworks Display (adopted
edition).
      (5)   Permits shall be filed with the office of the State Fire Marshal at
least 15 days in advance of the date of the display.  After this privilege
shall have been granted, sales, possession, use and distribution of fireworks
for the display shall be lawful for that purpose only.  No permit granted under
this division shall be transferable.  For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC
DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or
pyrotechnic materials before a proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors.
      (6)   Any person remaining within the display area shall be identified as
licensed by the ATF, or an employee thereof, or be an assistant in training to
become a competent display operator.  All persons remaining within the display
area shall be at least 18 years of age.
      (7)   The Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction with recommendation from the State Fire Marshal shall promulgate
administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A to administer the
provisions of this division. The regulations shall address the process by which
permits are issued and any other procedures that are reasonably necessary to
effectuate this division.
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and
Firearms, and Explosives if the sale is to a person holding a display permit as
outlined in division (A) of this section.  The permit holder shall present the
permit along with other verifiable identification at the time of sale.
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives.
   (D)   The sale, and use in emergency situations, of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation, and highway use.
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads.
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports.
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations.
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-partnership,
non-profit, or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling
at retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing or using consumer fireworks
as defined in KRS 227.702 and as permitted pursuant to KRS 227.715.
(KRS 227.710)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03  CONSUMER FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS ON SALE.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
93.02, the consumer fireworks described in KRS 227.702 may be offered for sale,
sold at retail, or kept with the intent to sell, only if the requirements of
this section are met.
   (B)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, non-profit, or business intending to
sell consumer fireworks described in KRS 227.702(1) shall register annually
with the State Fire Marshal's office in accordance with KRS 227.715, and
display its registration certificate in a conspicuous location at the site.
   (C)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall comply with
all applicable provisions of the International Building Code, with Kentucky
Amendments (adopted edition), and NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection
Association) Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, Storage, and Retail
Sales of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles (adopted addition).
   (D)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or sell any consumer
fireworks listed in §
93.01(B) to any person under 18 years of age.
   (E)   No person under 18 years of age may be employed by a fireworks
distribution facility, or manufacturing facility.  No person under 18 years of
age shall sell consumer fireworks at a consumer fireworks retail sales facility
registered under KRS 227.715 unless the individual is supervised by a parent or
guardian.
(KRS 227.715(7) through (9))  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04  BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
93.02 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than $1,000,000.  However, the appropriate city official or the
State Fire Marshal may require a larger amount if in their judgment the
situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of all damages which may be
caused thereby either to a person or to property by reason of the permitted
display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his agents, employees or
subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05  EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry, or
gold star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate, toy
snakes which contain no mercury, smoke novelties and party novelties, which
contain less than twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture, or
shells or cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms, or blank cartridges for a
show or theater, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports,
or for use by military organizations, or the sale of any kind of fireworks
provided the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730)
§ 93.06  DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the State Fire Marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter. After a period of 60 days,
the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of 60 days, the seized fireworks may be offered for
sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor, or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or "display"
designation shall require the notification of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives. The State Fire Marshal shall provide the
owner or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of any fireworks
seized within five business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the State Fire
Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the State Fire Marshal's intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire Marshal's
intent. The State Fire Marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the State Fire Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal's intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for
three consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks within
ten days of the date of the last publication, the State Fire Marshal may
proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the fireworks
within ten days of the date of the last publication, a hearing as set out in
division (C)(1) shall be held.
   (D)   Nothing in KRS 227.700 to 227.750 shall restrict a local government
from enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks within its
jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.20  BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the authorized city
official.  The authorized city official, before granting such permit may
require the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify the city and all other
persons against injury or damages which might result from the proposed
blasting.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21  STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material
of a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any
other portion of any building of any kind.  Proper fireproof receptacles shall
be provided for such hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.02 or
93.04, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more
than $1,000, or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both. 
(KRS 227.990(4))
   (B)   Any person who violates any other provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500.
CHAPTER 94:  LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Purpose
   
94.02   Conflicting regulations; strictest to prevail
   
94.03   Definitions
   
94.04   Littering prohibited; exemptions
   
94.05   Vehicle loading; load to be secure
   
94.06   Enforcement officers; issuance of citations
   
94.07   Enforcement system
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to accomplish litter control in the city. 
This chapter is intended to place upon all persons within the city limits the
duty of contributing to the public cleanliness of the city and appearance in
order to promote the public health, safety, and welfare and to protect the
economic interest of the people of the city against unsanitary and unsightly
conditions.  It is further the intent of this chapter to protect the people
against the health and safety menace and the expense incident to littering.
(Ord. 80-06, passed 4-1-80)
§ 94.02  CONFLICTING REGULATIONS; STRICTEST TO PREVAIL.
   In the event any other city regulation, whether or not codified, is in
conflict with any of the terms of this chapter, the more stringent shall be
construed as applicable.
(Ord. 80-06, passed 4-1-80)
§ 94.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DUMPOUTS.  Any material emptied from a vehicle or building upon streets,
roadsides, or public places other than that emptied in appropriate litter
receptacles.
   HANDBILL.  Any printed or written material excluding newspapers; which
advertises for sale any commodity, or thing, or which directs attention to any
business or other activity, or event of any kind.
   LITTER.  All solid wastes including, but not limited to containers,
packages, wrappings, printed matter or other material thrown or deposited as
herein prohibited, but not including the waste of the primary processes of
mining, logging, sawmilling, farming or manufacturing.
   LITTER BAG.  A bag, sack or other container made of any material which is
large enough to serve as a receptacle for litter inside the vehicle of any
person.
   PERSON.  Any individual, industry, public or private corporation, co-
partnership, association, firm or other entity, whatsoever.
   SOLID WASTE.  All solid and semi solid waste including garbage, rubbish,
ashes, industrial waste, swill, demolition, and construction waste, abandoned
vehicles or parts thereof, and discarded commodities.
   STREET.  Synonymous with and includes any highway, road, alley, collector,
local, arterial or freeway within the city limits.
   SWEEPOUTS.  Any collection of debris, resulting from a clean-up operation,
that is deposited in or around a public place.
(Ord. 80-06, passed 4-1-80)
§ 94.04  LITTERING PROHIBITED; EXEMPTIONS.
   No person shall throw, drop, deposit, discard or otherwise dispose of litter
upon any public place, in the city or upon any private property not owned by
him, or in any waters within the jurisdiction of the city whether from a
vehicle or otherwise, except:
   (A)   When such property is designated by the state or by any of its
agencies or the city for disposal of garbage and refuse, and such person is
authorized by the proper public authority to so use such property;
   (B)   Into a litter receptacle or other container in such manner that the
litter will be prevented from being carried away or deposited by the elements
upon any part of the public place or any private property; or
   (C)   When such person is the owner or does have control or custody of the
property, or has prior consent of the owner or tenant in lawful possession of
such property, or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the
owner or tenant and provided the litter will not cause a public nuisance or be
in violation of any other state or local laws, rules or regulations.
(Ord. 80-06, passed 4-1-80)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05  VEHICLE LOADING; LOAD TO BE SECURE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any public street unless such
vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, shifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand
or gravel may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction.
   (B)   Any person owning or operating a vehicle from which any glass or other
objects of its load have fallen or escaped, which would constitute an
obstruction or injure a vehicle or otherwise endanger travel upon such public
street shall immediately cause such public street to be cleaned of all such
glass or other objects and shall pay any cost therefore.
(Ord. 80-06, passed 4-1-80)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06  ENFORCEMENT OFFICES; ISSUANCE OF CITATIONS.
   Any police officer may enforce the provisions of this chapter  All such
enforcement officers are empowered to issue citations to any person violating
the provisions of this chapter.  In addition, mailing by registered mail of
such citation or other process to the last known place of residence of the
offender shall be deemed as personal service upon the person charged.
(Ord. 80-06, passed 4-1-80)
§ 94.07  ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM.
   In arriving at realistic penalties for violations of provisions contained in
this chapter, the primary objective has been to establish them as part of the
simplest possible enforcement system. The system has these features:
   (A)   A mail-in ticket which:
      (1)   Identifies the violator.
      (2)   Lists and identifies violations of the provisions by section
numbers.
      (3)   States the prescribed fine beside each violation listed.
      (4)   Provides simple instructions on where the ticket is to be mailed
with a check or money order in the amount of the stipulated fine.
      (5)   States a simple procedure to follow if the violator elects to
appear in court to plead his case rather than mail in the fine.
   (B)   Use of the above ticket by all departments and agency personnel
authorized to enforce sections of this chapter.
   (C)   Use for particularly flagrant violations (dumpouts, garbage spreading
from badly-overloaded solid waste containers, debris-strewn property, and the
like)  This would be in the form of a direct summons to court, with penalty
range substantially above those on the mail-in ticket.
(Ord. 80-06, passed 4-1-80)
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the following acts shall be guilty of a
violation and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
   (A)   Accumulations of litter at construction/demolition sites;
   (B)   Depositing commercial solid waste in sidewalk or other pedestrian
receptacles;
   (C)   Depositing household solid waste in sidewalk or other pedestrian
litter receptacles;
   (D)   Dumpouts;
   (E)   Failure to bundle and tie loose excess household solid waste;
   (F)   Failure to clean loading/unloading areas;
   (G)   Failure to follow prescribed putout practices;
   (H)   Failure to provide litter receptacles;
   (I)   Failure to replace defective commercial containers;
   (J)   Failure to replace defective household containers;
   (K)   Improper commercial solid waste containerization;
   (L)   Improper disposal of household bulk;
   (M)   Improper household solid waste containerization;
   (N)   Inability to show proof of proper end disposition of construction/
demolition;
   (O)   Lack of containers at loading/unloading operations;
   (P)   Lack of containers at construction/demolition sites;
   (Q)   Litter by pedestrians and motorists;
   (R)   Litter on private premises;
   (S)   Litter on sidewalks and strips;
   (T)   Littering with handbills, leaflets, and the like;
   (U)   Sweepouts;
   (V)   Transporting loose materials without adequate covering;
   (W)   Uncovered commercial containers; and
   (X)   Uncovered household containers.
CHAPTER 95:  ALARMS; EMERGENCY SYSTEMS
Section
Incident Command System
   
95.01   Adoption by reference
911 Emergency Telephone Service
   
95.15   Establishment
   
95.16   Monthly 911 fee; collection
   
95.17   911 Advisory Board
Security Systems
   
95.30   Annual service fee
   
95.31   Dispatch fee on false alarms
   
95.32   Purpose of fees
INCIDENT COMMAND SYSTEM
§ 95.01  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Incident Command System of the National Emergency Training Center, dated
August 1, 1989, is adopted for the city, and the Incident Command System is
enacted by reference to the Incident Command System.  (Ord. 90-15, passed 8-14-
90) 
911 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SERVICE
§ 95.15  ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is established a safety answering service to provide a single
telephone number for emergency services within the local area, which service
shall be known as “911.”
(Ord. 88-10, passed 10-18-88)
§ 95.16  MONTHLY 911 FEE; COLLECTION.
   (A)   There is established a 911 fee of $1.73 per month for each exchange
telephone subscriber which is levied as a special tax, license and/or fee to be
paid by each exchange telephone subscriber in the local area on an individual
exchange basis limited to a maximum of 25 exchange lines per account.
   (B)   Phone company shall collect the 911 fee from the subscriber and remit
the fee to the city as trustee, according to the terms of the agreement.
(Ord. 88-10, passed 10-18-88; Am. Ord. 99-011, passed 7-13-99; Am. Ord. 99-013,
passed 9-16-99)
§ 95.17  911 ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   There is established a City and County 911 Advisory Board, which shall
be comprised of the following individuals:  two county representatives
appointed by the Johnson County Judge Executives; two city representatives
appointed by the Mayor of the city, the Johnson County Sheriff, Paintsville
Police Chief and an agent for the Johnson County Fire Association.  Terms for
those members shall be co-extensive with the terms of the appointing authority
and for the Paintsville Police Chief and Agent for the Johnson County Fire
Association co-extensive with the term of the Mayor and/or the Johnson County
Judge Executive.
   (B)   The Board shall meet quarterly and the Chairperson may call special
meetings upon written notice delivered to the members at least seven days prior
to any special meeting.
   (C)   The Board shall continuously monitor the procedures established for
the operation of the 911 system and make recommendations to the County Fiscal
Court and the City Council for effective implementation of the emergency
telephone system.
(Ord. 88-10, passed 10-18-88)
SECURITY SYSTEMS
§ 95.30  ANNUAL SERVICE FEE.
   There is enacted an annual fee of $25 on all security systems in the police
dispatch office.
(Ord. 80-14, passed 5-5-80)
§ 95.31  DISPATCH FEE ON FALSE ALARMS.
   There is enacted a fee of $25 upon the owners of the security systems which
give false alarms where it can be shown that the reason for the false alarm was
either negligence or mechanical failure.
(Ord. 80-14, passed 5-5-80)
§ 95.32  PURPOSES OF FEES.
   The purpose of the fee found in §§
95.30 and
95.31 is for the purpose of compensating the Police Department in their
monitoring the security systems and answering false alarms. 
(Ord. 80-14, passed 5-5-80)
Cross-reference:
   Police Department, see
Ch. 39
CHAPTER 96:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Unlawful housing practices
   
96.03   Exemptions
   
96.04   Unlawful financial practices
   
96.05   Blockbusting
   
96.06   Agency no defense
   
96.07   Human Rights Commission; enforcement provisions
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATION.  Any direct or indirect act or practice of exclusion,
distinction, restrictions, segregation, limitation, refusal, denial or any
other act or practice of differentiation or preference in the treatment of a
person or persons because of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, or
age between 40 and 65, or the aiding, abetting, inciting, coercing or
compelling thereof.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION.  A bank, banking organization, mortgage company,
insurance company, or other lender to whom application is made for financial
assistance for the purchase, lease, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation,
repair, maintenance, or improvement of real property, or an individual employed
by or acting on behalf of any of these.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATIONS.  Includes improved and unimproved property and means
a building, structure, a lot or part thereof which is used or occupied, or is
intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied as the home or residence
of one or more individuals.
   PERSON.  One or more individuals, labor unions, joint apprenticeship
committees, partnerships, associations, corporations, legal representatives,
mutual companies, joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations,
trustees, trustees in bankruptcy, receivers, or other legal or commercial
entity, the state, any of its political or civil subdivisions or agencies.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER or REAL ESTATE SALESMAN.  An individual, whether licensed
or not, who, on behalf of others, for a fee, commission, salary, or other
valuable consideration, or who with the intention or expectation of receiving
or collecting the same, lists, sells, purchases, exchanges, rents or leases
real estate, or the improvements thereon, including options, or who negotiates
or attempts to negotiate on behalf of others such an activity; or who
advertises or holds himself out as engaged in such activities or who negotiates
or attempts to negotiate on behalf of others a loan secured by mortgage or
other encumbrance upon a transfer of real estate, or who is engaged in the
business of charging an advance fee or contracting for collection of a fee in
connection with a contract whereby he undertakes to promote the sale, purchase,
exchange, rentals or lease of real estate through its listing in a publication
issued primarily for such purpose; or an individual employed by or acting on
behalf of any of these.
   REAL ESTATE OPERATOR.  Any individual or combination of individuals, labor
unions, joint apprenticeship committees, partnerships, associations,
corporations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock companies,
trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees in bankruptcy, receivers or
other legal or commercial entity, the county or any of its agencies, that is
engaged in the business of selling, purchasing, exchanging, renting or leasing
real estate, or the improvements thereon, including options, or that derives
income, in whole or in part, from the sale, purchase, exchange, rental or lease
of real estate; or an individual employed by or acting on behalf of any of
these.
   REAL PROPERTY.  Includes buildings, structures, real estate, lands,
tenements, leaseholds, cooperatives, condominiums, and hereditaments, corporeal
and incorporeal, or any interest in the above.
(Ord. 78-09, passed 9-5-78)
§ 96.02  UNLAWFUL HOUSING PRACTICES.
   It is an unlawful practice for a real estate operator, or for a real estate
broker, real estate salesman, or an individual employed by or acting on behalf
of any of those to:
   (A)   Refuse to sell, exchange, rent or lease or otherwise deny to or
withhold real property from an individual because of his race, color, religion,
or national origin;
   (B)   Discriminate against an individual because of his race, sex, color,
religion, or national origin in the terms, conditions, or privileges of the
sale, exchange, rental or lease of real property or in the furnishing of
facilities or services in connection therewith;
   (C)   Refuse to receive or transmit a bona fide offer to purchase, rent or
lease real property from an individual because of his race, color, religion, or
national origin, sex;
   (D)   Refuse to negotiate for the sale, rental or lease of real property to
an individual because of his race, color, sex, religion, or national origin;
   (E)   Represent to an individual that real property is not available for
inspection, sale, rental, or lease when in fact it is available, or to refuse
to permit an individual to inspect real property because of his race, color,
religion or national origin;
   (F)   Print, circulate, post or mail or cause to be printed,circulated,
posted or mailed an advertisement or sign, or to use a form of application for
the purchase, rental or lease of real property, or to bake a record of inquiry
in connection with the prospective purchase, rental or lease of real property,
which indicates, directly or indirectly, a limitation, specification, or
discrimination as to race, color, religion or national origin or an intent to
make such a limitation, specification, or discrimination;
   (G)   Offer, solicit, accept, use or retain a listing of real property for
sale, rental or lease with the understanding that an individual may be
discriminated against in the sale, rental or lease of that real property or in
the furnishing of facilities or services in connection therewith because of his
race, color, religion, national origin; or
   (H)   Otherwise deny to or withhold real property from an individual because
of his race, color, religion or national origin or sex.
(Ord. 78-09, passed 9-5-78)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03  EXEMPTIONS.
   Nothing in §
96.02 shall apply to:
   (A)   The rental of a housing accommodation in a building which contains
housing accommodations for not more than two families living independently of
each other, if the owner or a member of his family resides in one of the
housing accommodations;
   (B)   The rental of a portion of a housing accommodation by the occupant of
the housing accommodation, or by the owner of the housing accommodations if he
or a member of his family resides therein;
   (C)   A religious institution, or to an organization operated for charitable
or educational purposes, which is operated, supervised or controlled by a
religious corporation, association or society, to the extent that the religious
corporation, association, or society, limits, or gives preferences in, sale,
lease, rental, assignment, or sublease of real property to individuals of the
same religion, or makes a selection of buyers, tenants, lessees, assignees, or
sublessees, that is calculated by such religious corporation, association, or
society to promote the religious principles for which it is established or
maintained;
   (D)   The private sale by a private individual, homeowner who disposes of
his property without the aid of any real estate operator, broker or salesman
and without advertising or public display; or
   (E)   A real estate operator to require him to negotiate with any individual
who has not shown evidence of financial ability to consummate the purchase or
rental of a housing accommodation.
(Ord. 78-09, passed 9-5-78)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04  UNLAWFUL FINANCIAL PRACTICES.
   It is an unlawful practice for a financial institution or an individual
employed by or acting on behalf of a financial institution to:
   (A)   Discriminate against an individual because of the race, sex, color,
religion, or national origin of the individual or the present or prospective
owner, tenant or occupant of the real property or of a member, stockholder,
director, officer, employee, or representative of any of these, in the
granting, withholding, extending, modifying or renewing, the rates, terms,
conditions, privileges or other provisions of financial assistance or in the
extension of services in connection therewith; or
   (B)   Use a form of application for financial assistance or to make or keep
a record or inquiry in connection with applications for financial assistance
which indicate directly or indirectly a limitation, specification, or
discrimination as to race, color, religion, sex or national origin or an intent
to make such a limitation, specification, or discrimination.
(Ord. 78-09, passed 9-5-78)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05  BLOCKBUSTING.
   It is an unlawful practice for a real estate operator, a real estate broker,
a real estate salesman, a financial institution, an employee of any of these,
or any other person, for the purpose of inducing a real estate transaction from
which he may benefit financially to:
   (A)   Represent that a change has occurred or will or may occur in the
composition with respect to race, color, religion or national origin of the
owners or occupants in the block, neighborhood, or area in which the real
property is located; or
   (B)   Represent that this change will or may result in the lowering of
property values, an increase in criminal or antisocial behavior, or a decline
in the quality of schools in the block, neighborhood, or area in which the real
property is located.
(Ord. 78-09, passed 9-5-78)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.06  AGENCY NO DEFENSE.
   It shall be no defense to a violation of this chapter by a real estate
operator, real estate broker, real estate salesman, financial institution or
other person subject to the provisions of this chapter that the violation was
requested, sought or otherwise procured by a person not subject to the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 78-09, passed 9-5-78)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.07  HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION; ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Membership.  The Human Rights Commission shall consist of five members
who shall be appointed on a nonpartisan basis and shall be broadly
representatives of the financial institutions, real estate businesses,
religious groups, human rights groups, and the general public.  The Mayor shall
appoint the members, to be approved by the City Council.  Of the first five
members appointed, one shall be appointed for one year; two shall be appointed
for two years, and two shall be appointed for three years.  Subsequent
appointments shall be for three years.  In the event of incapacity, death or
resignation of any member, a successor shall be appointed for the member's
unexpired term.  Members shall be eligible for reappointment.  Before making
new appointments or any reappointments, the Mayor may request the
recommendations of the City Council.  No elected or appointed city official
shall be a member of the Commission.  The members shall serve without
compensation.
   (B)   Powers.  The Human Rights Commission is authorized to:
      (1)   Receive, initiate, investigate, hear, and determine charges of
violations of this chapter and any applicable ordinances, orders, or
resolutions forbidding discrimination adopted by the City Council.
      (2)   Compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of evidence
before it by subpoena issued by the Johnson County Circuit Court.
      (3)   Issue remedial orders, after notice and hearing, requiring
cessation of violations.
      (4)   Issue such affirmative orders as in its judgment will carry out the
purposes of this chapter.
      (5)   Enter into cooperative working agreements with federal or state
agencies to achieve the purposes of this chapter.
      (6)   Refer a matter under this chapter to the Kentucky Commission of
Human Rights for initial action or review.  (Such matter may be referred upon
request of a majority of the members of the City Council.)
   (C)   Enforcement of orders of the Human Rights Commission.  The proceeding
for enforcement of an order of the Human Rights Commission is initiated by
filing a complaint in the circuit court.  Copies of the complaint shall be
served upon all parties of record.  Within 30 days after the filing of the
complaint by the Human Rights Commission or within such further time as the
court may allow, the Human Rights Commission shall transmit to the court the
original or certified copy of the entire record upon which the order is based,
including a transcript of testimony, which need not be printed.  By stipulation
of all parties to the proceeding, the record may be shortened.  The findings of
fact of the Human Rights Commission shall be conclusive unless clearly
erroneous in view of the probative and substantial evidence on the whole
record.  The court shall have the power to grant such temporary relief or
restraining order as it deemed just, and to enter an aside in whole or in part
the order of the Human Rights Commission, or remanding the case to the Kentucky
Human Rights Commission for further proceedings.  All such proceedings shall be
heard and determined by the circuit court and the Court of Appeals as
expeditiously as possible and with lawful precedence over other matters.
(Ord. 78-09, passed 9-5-78)
§ 96.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of up to $500, imprisonment for up
to 12 months, or both such fine and imprisonment.
CHAPTER 97:  PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Recreation Commission
   
97.01   Creation
   
97.02   Members
   
97.03   Adoption of rules and bylaws
   
97.04   Recreation Director
   
97.05   Duties
   
97.06   Monthly report
RECREATION COMMISSION
§ 97.01  CREATION.
   It shall be hereby created the Paintsville City Recreation Commission,
hereinafter referred to as “the Commission.”
(Ord. 94-003, passed 3-17-94)
§ 97.02  MEMBERS.
   The Commission shall consist of nine members, these nine members include
eight commissioners to be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City
Council, as well as the current president of the city little league who shall
automatically be a member of the Commission. All commissioners shall serve two
year terms. Thereafter, all vacancies in the commission shall be filled by the
Council for two year terms except those occurring during a term which shall be
filled for the balance of the term. Each commissioner shall serve the appointed
term or until removed by City Council, for misfeasance, malfeasance in office
after hearing before the Council.
(Ord. 94-003, passed 3-17-94; Am. Ord. 2003-007, passed 5-13-03)
§ 97.03  ADOPTION OF RULES AND BYLAWS.
   The Commission shall adopt rules and bylaws for the time and place of its
meetings and the conduct thereof, and four commissioners shall constitute a
quorum at any meeting. The bylaws shall be reviewed and approved by the City
Council. At its first meeting each year, the Commission shall organize by the
designation of one of the commissioners to act as a chairman and another one to
act as secretary. Any commissioner failing to attend four successive monthly
meetings without acceptable cause and approval by the Commission may thereby
automatically be removed from office by the Commission.
(Ord. 94-003, passed 3-17-94)
§ 97.04  RECREATION DIRECTOR.
   The Commission shall have the power to employ and discharge a recreation
director, with the advice and consent of the Mayor and City Council.
(Ord. 94-003, passed 3-17-94)
§ 97.05  DUTIES.
   The Commission shall have the supervision and management of the recreation
facilities and properties of the city, including income or revenue of the
recreation facilities, and also maintenance operation and extension of the
recreation facilities. Initial allocation of employees and properties to be
managed by the Commission shall be submitted to the City Council for approval
at a date set by the said Council. Any use of any city tax revenues shall be
directed by the Commission with the advice and consent of the City Council.
(Ord. 94-003, passed 3-17-94)
§ 97.06  MONTHLY REPORT.
   The Commission shall make a monthly report to the City Council covering the
income and operating expenses of the recreational facilities and recommend to
the Council for approval all works of improvement or repair involving the
expenditure of $1,000 or more.
(Ord. 94-003, passed 3-17-94)
CHAPTER 98:  TREES
Section
General Provisions
   
98.01   Definitions
Tree Board
   
98.15   Creation and establishment
   
98.16   Term of office
   
98.17   Compensation
   
98.18   Duties and responsibilities
   
98.19   Operation; quorum
   
98.20   Review by City Council; appeal
Street Trees
   
98.30   Distance from street corners and hydrants
   
98.31   Public tree care
   
98.32   Pruning; corner clearance; responsibility of owner
   
98.33   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property
 
   
98.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 98.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES.  Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the city, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
   STREET TREES.  Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation of land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or ways
within the city.
(Ord. 91-004, passed 4-9-91)
TREE BOARD
§ 98.15  CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is created and established a Tree Board for the city shall consist of
five members, citizens, and residents of the county, who shall be appointed by
the Mayor.
(Ord. 91-004, passed 4-9-91)
§ 98.16  TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of the five persons to be appointed by the Mayor shall be three
years except that the term of two of the members appointed to the first Board
shall be for only one year, and the term of two members of the first Board
shall be for two years.  In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the
term of any member, his successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion
of the term.
(Ord. 91-004, passed 4-9-91)
§ 98.17  COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 91-004, passed 4-9-91)
§ 98.18  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Board to study, investigate, counsel,
develop and/or update annually, and administer a written plan for the care,
preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal, or disposition of trees
and shrubs in parks and in other public areas. Such plan will be presented
annually to the City Council, and upon their acceptance and approval, shall
constitute the official comprehensive tree plan for the city. The Board, when
requested by the City Council, shall consider, investigate, make finding,
report, and recommend upon any special matter of question coming within the
scope of its work.
(Ord. 91-004, passed 4-9-91)
§ 98.19  OPERATION; QUORUM.
   The Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and regulations,
and keep a journal of its findings.  A majority of the members shall be a
quorum for the transaction of business.
(Ord. 91-004, passed 4-9-91)
§ 98.20  REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL; APPEAL.
   The City Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts, and
decisions of the Tree Board.  Any person may appeal from any ruling or order of
the Tree Board to the City Council who may hear the matter and make the final
decision.
(Ord. 91-004, passed 4-9-91)
STREET TREES
§ 98.30  DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND HYDRANTS.
   No street tree shall be planted closer than 20 feet of any streets corner,
measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curblines.  No street
tree shall be planted closer than ten feet of any hydrant.
(Ord. 91-004, passed 4-9-91)  Penal.ty, see §
98.99
§ 98.31  PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain, and remove trees,
plants, and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes,
squares, and public grounds, as may be necessary to insure public safety or to
preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds.  The Tree
Board may remove or cause or order to be removed, any tree or part thereof
which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is injurious
to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, or other public
improvements, or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect, or other pest.
(Ord. 91-004, passed 4-9-91)
§ 98.32  PRUNING; CORNER CLEARANCE; RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the
city shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the
light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and
so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the
street or sidewalk.  The owners shall remove all dead, diseased, or dangerous
trees or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of the
public.  The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private
property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street
from a street light or interferes with visibility of any traffic control device
or sign.
(Ord. 91-004, passed 4-9-91)  Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.33  DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The city shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased
trees on private property within the city when such trees constitute a hazard
to life and property, or harbor insects or disease which constitute a potential
threat to other trees within the city.  The Tree Board will notify in writing
the owners of such trees.  Removal shall be done by the owners at their own
expense within 60 days after the date of service of notice.  In the event of
failure of owners to comply with such provisions, the city shall have the
authority to remove such trees and charge the cost of removal on the owner's
property tax notice.
(Ord. 91-004, passed 4-9-91)  Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be, upon conviction or a plea of guilt, subject to a fine
not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 91-004, passed 4-9-91)
CHAPTER 99:  SMOKING REGULATIONS
Section
Smoking in Restaurants
   
99.01   Findings; intent
   
99.02   Definitions
   
99.03   Application to city-owned and county-owned facilities
   
99.04   Smoking in restaurants prohibited
   
99.05   Declaration of restaurant
   
99.06   Posting of signs
   
99.07   Public education
   
99.08   Governmental agency cooperation
   
99.09   Other applicable laws
 
   
99.98   Enforcement
   
99.99   Penalty
SMOKING IN RESTAURANTS
§ 99.01  FINDINGS; INTENT.
   (A)   The Paintsville City Council finds that:
      (1)   Numerous studies have found that tobacco smoke is a major
contributor to indoor air pollution. Breathing secondhand smoke is a cause of
disease in healthy nonsmokers. These diseases include heart disease, stroke,
respiratory disease and lung cancer. The National Cancer Institute determined
in 1999 that secondhand smoke is responsible for the early deaths of up to
65,000 Americans annually. (National Cancer Institute (NCI), “Health effect of
exposure to environmental tobacco smoke: the report of the California
Environmental Protection Agency. Smoking and Tobacco Control Monograph 10,”
Bethesda, MD: National Institutes of Health, National Cancer Institute (NCI),
August 1999.)
      (2)   The Public Health Service’s National Toxicology Program (NIP) has
listed secondhand smoke as a known carcinogen. (Environmental Health
Information Service (EHIS), “Environmental tobacco smoke: first listed in the
Ninth Report on Carcinogens,” U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
(DHHS), Public Health Service, NTP, 2000; reaffirmed by the NTP in subsequent
reports on carcinogens, 2003, 2005.)
      (3)   A study of hospital admissions for acute myocardial infarction in
Helena, Montana before, during, and after a local eliminating smoking in
workplaces and public places may be associated with a reduction in morbidity
from heart disease. (Sargent, Richard P.; Shepard, Robert M.; Glantz, Stanton
A., “Reduced incidence of admissions for myocardial infarction associated with
public smoking ban: before and after study,” British Medical Journal 328: 977-
980, April 24, 2004.)
      (4)   Secondhand smoke is particularly hazardous to the elderly,
individuals with cardiovascular disease and individuals with impaired
respiratory function, including asthmatics and those with obstructive airway
disease. Children exposed to secondhand smoke have an increased risk of asthma,
respiratory infections, sudden infant death syndrome, developmental
abnormalities, and cancer. (California Environmental Protection Agency (Cal
EPA), “Health effects of exposure to environmental tobacco smoke,” Tobacco
Control 6(4): 346-353, Winter, 1997.)
      (5)   The Americans with Disabilities Act, which mandates access to
public places and workplaces for persons with disabilities, deems impaired
respiratory function to be a disability. (Daynard, R.A., “Environmental tobacco
smoke and the Americans with Disabilities Act,” Nonsmokers’ Voice 15(1): 8-9.)
      (6)   The U.S. Surgeon General has determined that the simple separation
of smokers and nonsmokers within the same air space may reduce, but does not
eliminate, the exposure of nonsmokers to secondhand smoke. (Department of
Health and Human Services. The Health Consequences of Involuntary Smoking: A
Report of the Surgeon General. Public Health Service, Centers for Disease
Control, 1986.)
      (7)   The Environmental Protection Agency has determined that secondhand
smoke cannot be reduced to safe levels in businesses by high rates of
ventilation. Air cleaners, which are only capable of filtering the particulate
matter and odors in smoke, do not eliminate the know toxins in secondhand
smoke. (Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), “Indoor air facts no. 5:
environmental tobacco smoke,” Washington, D.C.: Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA), June 1989.)
      (8)   The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has determined that
the risk of acute myocardial infarction and coronary heart disease associated
with exposure to tobacco smoke is non-linear at low doses, increasing rapidly
with relatively small doses such as those received from secondhand smoke or
actively smoking one or two cigarettes a day and has warned that all patients
at increased risk of coronary heart disease or with known coronary artery
disease should avoid all indoor environments that permit smoking. (Pechacek,
Terry F.; Babb, Stephen, “Commentary: How acute and reversible are the
cardiovascular risks of secondhand smoke?” British Medical Journal, 328: 980-
983, April 24, 2004.)
      (9)   A significant amount of secondhand smoke exposure occurs in the
workplace. Employees who work in smoke-filled businesses suffer a 25-50% higher
risk of heat attack and higher rates of death from cardiovascular disease and
cancer, as well as, increased acute respiratory disease and measurable decrease
in lung function. (Pitsavos, C.; Panagiotakos, D.B.; Chrysohoou, C.; Skoumas,
J.; Tzioumis, K; Stefanadis, C.; Toutouzas, P., “Association between exposure
to environmental tobacco smoke and the development of acute coronary syndromes:
the CARDIO200 case-control study,” Tobacco Control 11(3): 220-225, September
2002.)
      (10)   Smoke-filled workplaces result in higher worker absenteeism due to
respiratory disease, lower productivity, higher cleaning and maintenance costs,
increased health insurance rates, and increased liability claims for diseases
related to exposure to secondhand smoke. (“The high price of cigarette
smoking,” Business & Health 15(8), Supplement A: 6-9, August 1997.)
      (11)   Numerous economic analyses examining restaurant and hotel receipts
and controlling for economic variables have shown either no difference or a
positive economic impact after enactment of laws requiring workplaces to be
smoke-free. Creation of smoke-free workplaces in sound economic policy and
provides the maximum level of employee health and safety. (Glantz, S.A.; Smith,
L., “The Effect of Ordinances Requiring Smoke-Free Restaurants on Restaurant
Sales in the United States.” American Journal of Public Health, 87:1687-1693,
1997; Colman, R.; Urbonas, C.M., “The economic impact of smoke-free workplaces:
an assessment for Nova Scotia, prepared for Tobacco Control Unit, Nova Scotia
Department of Health,” GPI Atlantic, September 2001.)
      (12)   Smoking is a potential cause of fires; (cigarette and cigar burns
and ash stains on merchandise and fixtures cause economic damage to business
health 15(8), Supplement A: 6-9, August 1997.)
      (13)   The smoking of tobacco is a form of air pollution, a danger to
health and a material public nuisance.
   (B)   Accordingly, the Paintsville City Council adopts the foregoing as
justification for this subchapter, the purpose of which is to protect the
public health and welfare by prohibiting smoking in restaurants.
(Ord. 2006-006, passed 12-12-06)
§ 99.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RESTAURANT. An eating establishment, including but not limited to, coffee
shops, cafeterias, sandwich stands, and private and public school cafeterias,
which gives or offers for sale food to the public, guests, or employees, as
well as kitchens and catering facilities in which food is prepared on the
premises for serving elsewhere. RESTAURANT shall include a bar area within the
restaurant. For the purposes of this subchapter, RESTAURANT only applies to
establishments that derive 50% of their annual gross revenue from the sale of
prepared foods.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted cigar,
cigarette, pipe, or other lighted tobacco product or any other lighted
substance, whether otherwise legally possessed or consumed such as marijuana,
in any manner or in any form.
(Ord. 2006-006, passed 12-12-06)
§ 99.03  APPLICATION TO CITY-OWNED OR COUNTY-OWNED FACILITIES.
   Smoking policies concerning facilities owned or operated by the city, county
or Commonwealth shall be governed by regulations adopted in compliance with KRS
61.165. This statute mandates all policies governing smoking in city, county
and Commonwealth facilities shall be properly adopted, in writing and “provide
accessible indoor smoking areas in any buildings where smoking is otherwise
restricted.”
(Ord. 2006-006, passed 12-12-06)
§ 99.04  SMOKING IN RESTAURANTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Smoking is prohibited in all enclosed restaurants as defined in §
99.02 above, within the City of Paintsville, Kentucky.
   (B)   This prohibition on smoking shall be communicated to all covered
entities by the effective date of this subchapter and to all prospective
employees upon their application for employment.
(Ord. 2006-006, passed 12-12-06)  Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.05  DECLARATION OF RESTAURANT.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, an owner, operator,
manager or authorized person in control of an establishment, facility, or
outdoor area may declare that entire establishment, facility, or outdoor area
as a nonsmoking place regardless of its designation under this subchapter.
Within such premises as an authorized nonsmoking designation has been made and
signage conforming to the specifications set out in §
99.06(A) is posted, smoking shall be prohibited as if otherwise prohibited by
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2006-006, passed 12-12-06) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.06  POSTING OF SIGNS.
   (A)   “No Smoking” signs or the international “No Smoking” symbol,
consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a
red circle with a red bar across it, shall be clearly and conspicuously posted
in every public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited by
this subchapter. The party responsible for the placement of the signage is the
owner, operator, manager or other person in control of the premises.
   (B)   A conspicuous sign clearly stating that smoking is prohibited shall be
posted at each entrance utilized by the public entering and exiting restaurants
within which smoking is prohibited by this subchapter. A conspicuous sign
clearly stating that smoking is prohibited shall be posted at each entrance
utilized by employees entering and exiting restaurants within which smoking is
prohibited by this subchapter.
   (C)   All ashtrays shall be removed from any area within which this
subchapter or the owner, operator, manager, or other persona having control of
the area prohibits smoking, except for ashtrays displayed for sale and not for
use on the premises.
(Ord. 2006-006, passed 12-12-06) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.07  PUBLIC EDUCATION.
   The Mayor’s Office shall take steps to offer a continuing program by which
the purpose and requirements of this subchapter is made clear to citizens and
to the owners, operators, managers and employees required to comply with it.
The program may include publication of a brochure, publication of news releases
and public meetings.
(Ord. 2006-006, passed 12-12-06)
§ 99.08  GOVERNMENTAL AGENCY COOPERATION.
   The city requests the Johnson County Health Department for its assistance in
the effective implementation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2006-006, passed 12-12-06)
§ 99.09  OTHER APPLICABLE LAWS.
   This subchapter shall not be interpreted or construed to permit smoking
where it is otherwise restricted by other applicable laws.
(Ord. 2006-006, passed 12-12-06)
§ 99.98  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The city’s Code Enforcement Officer, the City Police, the Fire
Department, the Johnson County Health Department (subject to formal
determination by the Health Board that the Johnson Health Department shall
assume enforcement responsibilities) and all other city officials and employees
designated by the Mayor or City Council shall enforce this subchapter.
   (B)   Notice of the provisions of this subchapter shall be given to all
applicants for a business license in the City of Paintsville.
   (C)   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint under this subchapter
may initiate enforcement with any of the authorized persons listed above.
   (D)   The Health Department, Fire Department, or their designees shall,
while in an establishment performing otherwise legal inspections, shall inspect
for compliance with this subchapter.
   (E)   Owners, managers, operators or employees of establishments regulated
by this subchapter shall inform persons seen violating this subchapter of the
requirements of this subchapter. In the event an owner, manager, operator or
employee of an establishment regulated by this subchapter observes a person or
persons violating this subchapter, he or she shall immediately direct the
person or persons in violation to extinguish the item being smoked.
      (1)   In the event the person (or persons) violating this subchapter
complies with this directive, no violation shall exist for the owner, manager,
operator or employee witnessing the violation. In the event an owner, manager,
operator or employee of an establishment regulated by this subchapter observes
a person or persons violation this subchapter and fails to immediately direct
the person (or persons) in violation to extinguish the item being smoked, the
owner, manager, operator or employee failing to take appropriate steps required
by this subchapter shall be in violation of this subchapter.
      (2)   (a)   In the event the person (or persons) violating this
subchapter fails or refuses to comply with this directive, the owner, manager,
operator or employee directing the person (or persons) violating this
subchapter shall take immediate and reasonable steps to obtain the removal of
the person (or persons) from the premises. As an example of the reasonableness
required, if there is a person violating this subchapter who, the owner,
manager, operator or employee of an establishment regulated by this subchapter
is required to remove from the premises, but the person is intoxicated or
otherwise reasonably believed to be unable to safely drive or conduct himself
or herself if required to leave those premises, in this event the owner,
manager, operator or employee may reasonably determine to allow the person
violating this subchapter to remain on the premises until appropriate
arrangements may be made for the person’s removal.
         (b)   In the event the person (or persons) violating this subchapter
is timely removed from the premises, no violation shall exist for any owner,
manager, operator or employee related to the establishment in which these
events occurred. In no event is an owner or agent of the premises to forcibly
remove the person violating the subchapter. Compliance is achieved under this
division (E)(2) if the owner or agent of the premises orders the person
violating the subchapter to leave its premises and promptly notified the police
if the person refuses.
      (3)   In the event the person (or persons) violating this subchapter
fails or refuses to comply with this directive and the owner, manager, operator
or employee who observed the violation or if a different person who directed
the person (or persons) from the premises, the owner, manager, operator or
employee failing to take appropriate steps required by this subchapter shall be
in violation of this subchapter.
      (4)   In all events, the establishment in which a violation occurs shall
be in violation of this subchapter for each violation that occurs on its
premises and in connection with which the owner, manager, operator or employee
fail to take appropriate steps required by this subchapter.
      (5)   An employee who observes a person (or persons) violating this
subchapter may immediately notify his or her owner, manager or supervisor of
the violation in satisfaction of the employee’s responsibility under this
subchapter. The failure of the employee’s owner, manager or supervisor to take
appropriate steps required by this subchapter in response to the employee’s
notice shall not constitute a violation on the part of the employee.
      (6)   In the event all duties required under this section are satisfied
yet the person violating this subchapter persists in his or her violation and/
or refuses to vacate the premises on which the violation occurred, the owner,
manager, supervisor and/or employee shall immediately contact one or more of
the agencies or departments authorized above to enforce this subchapter
informing the agency or department of the circumstances of the violation.
      (7)   The mere presence of a person smoking within premises of an
establishment governed by this subchapter does not constitute a violation on
the part of the establishment. The establishment and its agents shall only be
charged for a violation of this subchapter if the responsible agent(s) of the
establishment fail to timely satisfy each responsibility prescribed for them in
this section.
   (F)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, the city, the
Johnson County Health Department, an employee, or any person aggrieved by a
failure to comply with this subchapter, whether by commission or omission,
including violations on the part of an owner, operator, manager, employee or
other person(s) in control of a public place or a place of employment covered
by this subchapter may bring legal action to enforce this subchapter, either by
civil action seeking injunctive relief or by criminal complaint in a court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2006-006, passed 12-12-06)  Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited by the
provisions of this subchapter shall be guilty of a violation, punishable by a
fine not exceeding $50.
   (B)   A person who owns, manages, operates, or otherwise controls a public
place or place of employment and who fails to comply with the provisions of
this subchapter shall be guilty of a violation, punishable by:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $50 for a first violation within a one-year
period.
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $100 for a second violation within one year.
      (3)   A fine not exceeding $250 for each additional violation within one
year.
   (C)   In addition to the fines established by this section, violations of
this subchapter by a person who owns, manages, operates, or otherwise controls
a public place or place of employment may result in the suspension or
revocation of any permit or license issued to the person for the premises on
which the violation occurred.
   (D)   Violation of this subchapter is declared to be a public nuisance,
which may be abated by the city or its designated agents by restraining order,
preliminary and permanent injunction, or other means provided for by law. The
city may recover the reasonable costs of any court enforcement action seeking
abatement of this nuisance.
   (E)   Each day on which a violation of this subchapter occurs shall be
considered a separate and distinct violation.
(Ord. 2006-006, passed 12-12-06)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE AND TAX
      
111.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   PAWNBROKERS
      
113.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
      
114.   AMUSEMENTS
      
115.   DELIVERY BUSINESSES
      
116.   TOURISM AND CONVENTIONS
      
117.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
118.   APPLE FESTIVAL VENDORS
      
119.   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
120.   OFF-SITE SALES FOR AUTOMOBILE DEALERS
      
121.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110:  OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE AND TAX
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Occupational license application required
   
110.03   Occupational license tax payment required
   
110.04   Apportionment
   
110.05   Employers to withhold
   
110.06   Returns required
   
110.07   Extensions
   
110.08   Refunds
   
110.09   Federal audit provisions
   
110.10   Administrative provisions
   
110.11   Information to remain confidential
   
110.12   Use of occupational license tax
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any enterprise, activity, trade, occupation, profession or
undertaking of any nature conducted for gain or profit. BUSINESS shall not
include the usual activities of board trade, chambers of commerce, trade
associations, or unions, or other associations performing services usually
performed by trade associations or unions. BUSINESS shall not include funds,
foundations, corporations, or associations organized and operated for the
exclusive and sole purpose of religious, charitable, scientific, literary,
educational, civic or fraternal purposes, where no part of the earnings,
incomes or receipts of such unit, group, or association, inures to the benefit
of any private shareholder or other person.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. Each separate corporation, limited liability company,
business development corporation, partnership, limited partnership, registered
limited liability partnership, sole proprietorship, association, joint stock
company, receivership, trust, professional service organization, or other legal
entity through which business is conducted.
   CITY. The City of Paintsville, Kentucky.
   COMPENSATION. Wages, salaries, commissions, or any other form of
remuneration paid or payable by an employer for services performed by an
employee, which are required to be reported for federal income tax purposes and
adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any retirement,
profit sharing, or deferred compensation plan, which are deferred for federal
income tax purposes under a salary reduction agreement or similar arrangement,
including but not limited to salary reduction arrangements under Section 401
(a), 401(k), 402(e), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 414(h), or 457 of the Internal
Revenue Code; and
      (2)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any welfare
benefit, fringe benefit, or other benefit plan made by salary reduction or
other payment method which permits employees to elect to reduce federal taxable
compensation under the Internal Revenue Code, including but not limited to
Sections 125 and 132 of the Internal Revenue Code.
   CONCLUSION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The date that the adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service to net income as reported on the business entity’s
federal income tax return become final and unappealable.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who renders services to another person or any business
entity for compensation, including an officer of a corporation and any officer,
employee, or elected official of the United States, a state, or any political
subdivision of a state, or any agency of instrumentality of any one or more of
the above. A person classified as an independent contractor under the Internal
Revenue Code shall not be considered an EMPLOYEE.
   EMPLOYER. The person for whom an individual performs or performed any
service, of whatever nature, as the employee of such person, except that:
      (1)   If the person for whom the individual performs or performed the
services does not have control of the payment of the wages for such services,
EMPLOYER means the person having control of the payment of such wages, and
      (2)   In the case of a person paying wages on behalf of a nonresident
alien individual, foreign partnership, or foreign corporation, not engaged in
trade or business within the United States, EMPLOYER means such person.
   FINAL DETERMINATION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The revenue agent’s report or
other documents reflecting the final and unappealable adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service.
   FISCAL YEAR. An accounting period of 12 months ending on the last day of any
month other than December.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code in effect on December 31,
2006, exclusive of any amendments made subsequent to that date, other than
amendments that extend provisions in effect on December 31, 2006, that would
otherwise terminate.
   NET PROFIT. Gross income as defined in Section 61 of the Internal Revenue
Code minus all the deductions from gross income allowed by Chapter 1 of the
Internal Revenue Code, and adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction for state tax or local
tax which is computed, in whole or in part, by reference to gross or net income
and which is paid or accrued to any state of the United States, local taxing
authority in a state, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, or any foreign country
or political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction that directly or
indirectly is allocable to income which is either exempt from taxation or
otherwise not taxed;
      (3)   Include any amount claimed as a net operating loss carryback or
carryforward allowed under Section 172 of the Internal Revenue Code;
      (4)   Include any amount of income and expenses passed through separately
as required by the Internal Revenue Code to an owner of a business entity that
is a pass-through entity for federal tax purposes; and
      (5)   Exclude any amount of income that is exempt from state taxation by
the Kentucky Constitution, or the Constitution and statutory laws of the United
States;
   PERSON. Every natural person, whether a resident or non-resident of the
city. Whenever PERSON is used in a clause prescribing and imposing a penalty in
the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as applied to a partnership or
other form of unincorporated enterprise, shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, shall mean the officers and directors
thereof.
   RETURN or REPORT. Any properly completed and, if required, signed form,
statement, certification, declaration, or any other document permitted or
required to be submitted or filed with the city.
   SALES REVENUE. Receipts from the sale, lease, or rental of goods, services,
or property.
   TAX DISTRICT. Any city of the first to fifth class, county, urban county,
charter county, consolidated local government, school district, special taxing
district, or any other statutorily created entity with the authority to levy
net profits, gross receipts, or occupational license taxes.
   TAXABLE NET PROFIT.
      (1)   In case of a business entity having payroll or sales revenue only
within the city means net profit as defined above in this section.
      (2)   In case of a business entity having payroll or sales revenue both
within and without a the city means net profit as defined above in this
section, and as apportioned under §
110.04.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year or fiscal year ending during the calendar
year, upon the basis of which net income is computed.
(Ord. 2007-005, passed 12-18-07)
§ 110.02  OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Every person and business entity engaged in any business in the City of
Paintsville shall be required to apply for and obtain an occupational license
from the City of Paintsville before the commencement of business or in the
event of a change of business status. Licensees are required to notify the city
of any changes in address, the cessation of business, or any other changes
which render the information supplied to the city in the license application
inaccurate.
(Ord. 2007-005, passed 12-18-07) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03  OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX PAYMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, every person or
business entity engaged in any business for profit and any person or business
entity that is required to make a filing with the Internal Revenue Service or
the Kentucky Revenue Cabinet shall be required to file and pay to the city an
occupational license tax for the privilege of engaging in such activities
within the city. The occupational license tax shall be measured by 1.25% of:
      (1)   All wages and compensation paid or payable in the city for work
done or services performed or rendered in the city by every resident and
nonresident who is an employee;
      (2)   The net profits from business conducted in the city by a resident
or nonresident business entity.
   (B)   The occupational license tax imposed in this section shall not apply
to the following persons or business entities:
      (1)   Any bank, trust company, combined bank and trust company, combined
trust, banking and title insurance company organized and doing business in this
state, any savings and loan association whether state or federally chartered;
      (2)   Any compensation received by members of the Kentucky National Guard
for active duty training, unit training assemblies and annual field training;
      (3)   Any compensation received by precinct workers for election training
or work at election booths in state, county, and local primary, regular, or
special elections;
      (4)   Public service corporations that pay an ad valorem tax on property
valued and assessed by the Kentucky Department of Revenue pursuant to the
provisions of KRS 136.120. Licensees whose businesses are predominantly non-
public service who are also engaged in public service activity are required to
pay a license fee on their net profits derived from the non-public service
activities apportioned to the city;
      (5)   Persons or business entities that have been issued a license under
KRS Chapter 243 to engage in manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic
beverages. Persons engaged in the business of manufacturing or trafficking in
alcoholic beverages are required to file a return, but may exclude the portion
of their gross receipts derived from the manufacturing or trafficking in
alcoholic beverages;
      (6)   Life insurance companies incorporated under the laws of and doing
business in the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
      (7)   Any profits, earnings, or distributions of an investment fund which
would qualify under KRS 154.20-250 to 154.20-284 to the extent any profits,
earnings, or distributions would not be taxable to an individual investor;
      (8)   Any company providing multichannel video programming services or
communications services as defined in KRS 136.602. If only a portion of an
entity’s business is providing multichannel video programming services or
communications services including products or services that are related to and
provided in support of the multichannel video programming services or
communications services, this exclusion applies only to that portion of the
business that provides multichannel video programming services or
communications services including products or services that are related to and
provided in support of the multichannel video programming services or
communications services.
(Ord. 2007-005, passed 12-18-07; Am. Ord. 2015-003, passed 3-23-15; Am. Ord.
2017-001, passed 2-13-17)
§ 110.04  APPORTIONMENT.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) below, net profits shall be
apportioned as follows:
      (1)   For business entities with both payroll and sales revenue in more
than one tax district, by multiplying the net profits by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the payroll factor, described in division (B) of this
section, plus the sales factor, described in division (C) of this section, and
the denominator of which is two; and
      (2)   For business entities with sales revenue in more than one tax
district, by multiplying the net profits by the sales factor as set forth in
division (C) of this section.
   (B)   The payroll factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
amount paid or payable in the city during the tax period by the business entity
for compensation, and the denominator of which is the total compensation paid
or payable by the business entity everywhere during the tax period.
Compensation is paid or payable in the city based on the time the individual’s
service is performed within the city.
   (C)   The sales factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
sales revenue of the business entity in the city during the tax period, and the
denominator of which is the total sales revenue of the business entity
everywhere during the tax period.
      (1)   The sales, lease, or rental of tangible personal property is in the
city if:
         (a)   The property is delivered or shipped to a purchaser, other than
the United States government, or to the designee of the purchaser within the
city regardless of the f.o.b. point or other conditions of the sale; or
         (b)   The property is shipped from an office, store, warehouse,
factory, or other place of storage in the city and the purchaser is the United
States government.
      (2)   Sales revenues, other than revenues from the sale, lease or rental
of tangible personal property or the lease or rental of real property, are
apportioned to the city based upon a fraction, the numerator of which is the
time spent in performing such income-producing activity within the city and the
denominator of which is the total time spent performing that income-producing
activity.
      (3)   Sales revenue from the sale, lease, or rental of real property is
allocated to the tax district where the property is located.
   (D)   If the apportionment provisions of this section do not fairly
represent the extent of the business entity’s activity in the city, the
business entity may petition the city or the city may require, in respect to
all or any part of the business entity’s business activity, if reasonable:
      (1)   Separate accounting;
      (2)   The exclusion of any one or more of the factors;
      (3)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors which will fairly
represent the business entity’s business activity in the city; or
      (4)   The employment of any other method to effectuate an equitable
allocation and apportionment of gross receipts.
   (E)   When compensation is paid or payable for work done or services
performed or rendered by an employee, both within and without the city, the
license tax shall be measured by that part of the compensation paid or payable
as a result of work done or service performed or rendered within the city. The
license tax shall be computed by obtaining the percentage which the
compensation for work performed or services rendered within the city bears to
the total wages and compensation paid or payable. In order for the city to
verify the accuracy of a taxpayer’s reported percentages under this division
(E), the taxpayer shall maintain adequate records.
   (F)   All partnerships, S corporations, and all other entities where income
is “passed through” to the owners are subject to this chapter. The occupational
license tax imposed in this chapter is assessed against income before it is
“passed through” these entities to the owners.
   (G)   If any business entity dissolves, ceases to operate, or withdraws from
the city during any taxable year, or if any business entity in any manner
surrenders or loses its charter during any taxable year, the dissolution,
cessation of business, withdrawal, or loss or surrender of charter shall not
defeat the filing of returns and the assessment and collection of any
occupational license tax for the period of that taxable year during which the
business entity had business activity in the city
   (H)   If a business entity makes, or is required to make, a federal income
tax return, the occupational license tax shall be computed for the purposes of
this chapter on the basis of the same calendar or fiscal year required by the
federal government, and shall employ the same methods of accounting required
for federal income tax purposes.
(Ord. 2007-005, passed 12-18-07)
§ 110.05  EMPLOYERS TO WITHHOLD.
   (A)   Every employer making payment of compensation to an employee shall
deduct and withhold from the compensation an occupational license tax
calculated under §
110.03 above. Amounts withheld shall be paid to the city in accordance with
this section.
   (B)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall, for the quarter ending after January 1 and for each quarter ending
thereafter, on or before the end of the month following the close of each
quarter, make a return and report to the city, and pay to the city, the tax
required to be withheld under this section, unless the employer is permitted or
required to report within a reasonable time after some other period as
determined by the city.
   (C)   Every employer who fails to withhold or pay to the city any sums
required by this chapter to be withheld and paid shall be personally and
individually liable to the city for any sum or sums withheld or required to be
withheld in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (D)   The city shall have a lien upon all the property of any employer who
fails to withhold or pay over to the city sums required to be withheld under
this section. If the employer withholds, but fails to pay the amounts withheld
to the city, the lien shall commence as of the date the amounts withheld were
required to be paid to the city. If the employer fails to withhold, the lien
shall commence at the time the liability of the employer is assessed by the
city.
   (E)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall annually on or before February 28 of each year complete and file on a
form furnished or approved by the city a reconciliation of the occupational
license tax withheld where compensation is paid or payable to employees. Either
copies of federal forms W-2 and W-3, transmittal of wage and tax statements, or
a detailed employee listing with the required equivalent information, as
determined by the city, shall be submitted.
   (F)   Every employer shall furnish each employee a statement on or before
January 31 of each year showing the amount of compensation and occupational
license tax deducted by the employer from the compensation paid to the employee
for payment to the city during the preceding calendar year.
   (G)   An employer shall be liable for the payment of the tax required to be
deducted and withheld under this section.
   (H)   The president, vice president, secretary, treasurer or any other
person holding an equivalent corporate office of any business entity subject to
this section shall be personally and individually liable, both jointly and
severally, for any tax required to be withheld from compensation paid or
payable to one or more employees of the business entity, and neither the
corporate dissolution or withdrawal of the business entity from the city, nor
the cessation of holding any corporate office, shall discharge that liability;
provided that the personal and individual liability shall apply to each and
every person holding the corporate office at the time the tax becomes or became
obligated. No person shall be personally and individually liable under this
division (H) unless such person had authority to collect, truthfully account
for, or pay over the tax imposed by this chapter at the time that the taxes
imposed by this chapter become or became due.
   (I)   Not withstanding divisions (G) and (H) of this section, every employee
receiving compensation in the city subject to the tax imposed under §
110.03 above shall be personally liable for any amount due. In all cases where
the employer does not withhold the tax levied under this chapter from the
employee, such employee or employees shall be responsible for filing with the
[city, county, school district] each quarter in the same manner as if they were
the employer.
(Ord. 2007-005, passed 12-18-07) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06  RETURNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All business entity returns for the preceding taxable year shall be
made by April 15 of each year, except returns made on the basis of a fiscal
year, which shall be made by the fifteenth day of the fourth month following
the close of the fiscal year. Blank forms for returns shall be supplied by the
city.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of its federal income tax
return and all supporting statements and schedules at the time of filing its
occupational license tax return with the city. Whenever, in the opinion of the
city, it is necessary to examine the federal income tax return of any business
entity in order to audit the return, the city may compel the business entity to
produce for inspection a copy of any statements and schedules in support
thereof that have not been previously filed. The city may also require copies
of reports of adjustments made by the federal government.
   (C)   Every business entity subject to a occupational license tax governed
by the provisions of this chapter shall keep records, render under oath
statements, make returns, and comply with rules as the city from time to time
may prescribe. Whenever the city deems it necessary, the city may require a
business entity, by notice served to the business entity, to make a return,
render statements under oath, or keep records, as the city deems sufficient to
determine the tax liability the business entity.
   (D)   The city may require, for the purpose of ascertaining the correctness
of any return or for the purposes of making an estimate of the taxable income
of any business entity, the attendance of a representative of the business
entity or of any other person having knowledge in the premises.
   (E)   The full amount of the unpaid tax payable by any business entity, as
appears from the face of the return, shall be paid to the city at the time
prescribed for filing the occupational license tax return, determined without
regard to any extension of time for filing the return.
(Ord. 2007-005, passed 12-18-07) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07  EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The city may grant any business entity an extension of not more than
six months, unless a longer extension has been granted by the Internal Revenue
Service or is agreed to by the city and the business entity, for filing its
return, if the business entity, on or before the date prescribed for payment of
the occupational license tax, requests the extension and pays the amount
properly estimated as its tax.
   (B)   If the time for filing a return is extended, the business shall pay,
as part of the tax, an amount equal to 12% per annum simple interest on the tax
shown due on the return, but not been previously paid, from the time the tax
was due until the return is actually filed and the tax paid to the city. A
fraction of a month is counted as an entire month.
(Ord. 2007-005, passed 12-18-07) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08  REFUNDS.
   (A)   Where there has been an overpayment of tax under §
110.05 above, a refund or credit shall be made to the employer to the extent of
overpayment only if a written application for refund or credit is received by
the city from the employer within two years from the date the overpayment was
made.
   (B)   An employee who has compensation attributable to activities performed
outside the city, based on time spent outside the city, whose employer has
withheld and remitted to this city, the occupational license tax on the
compensation attributable to activities performed outside the city, may file
for a refund within two years of the date prescribed by law for the filing of a
return. The employee shall provide a schedule and computation sufficient to
verify the refund claim and the city may confirm with the employer the
percentage of time spent outside the city and the amount of compensation
attributable to activities performed outside the city prior to approval of the
refund.
   (C)   Where there has been an overpayment of net profits tax upon business
levied under §
110.03 above, a refund or credit shall be made to any person or business entity
to the extent of overpayment only upon a written application for refund or
credit to the city within two years from the date that overpayment was made.
(Ord. 2007-005, passed 12-18-07)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09  FEDERAL AUDIT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   As soon as practicable after each return is received, the city
may examine and audit the return. If the amount of tax computed by the city is
greater than the amount returned by the business entity, the additional tax
shall be assessed and a notice of assessment mailed to the business entity by
the city within five years from the date the return was filed, except as
otherwise provided in this division (A).
         (a)   In the case of a failure to file a return or of a fraudulent
return the additional tax may be assessed at any time.
         (b)   In the case of a return where a business entity understates net
profit, or omits an amount properly includable in net profits, or both, which
understatement or omission, or both, is in excess of 25% of the amount of net
profit stated in the return, the additional tax may be assessed at any time
within six years after the return was filed.
         (c)   In the case of an assessment of additional tax relating directly
to adjustments resulting from a final determination of a federal audit, the
additional tax may be assessed before the expiration of the times provided in
this division (A), or six months from the date the city receives the final
determination of the federal audit from the business entity, whichever is
later.
      (2)   The times provided in this division (A) may be extended by
agreement between the business entity and the city. For the purposes of this
division (A), a return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing
the return shall be considered as filed on the last day. Any extension granted
for filing the return shall also be considered as extending the last day
prescribed by law for filing the return.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of the final determination
of the federal audit within 30 days of the conclusion of the federal audit.
   (C)   The city may initiate a civil action for the collection of any
additional tax within the times prescribed in division (A) above.
(Ord. 2007-005, passed 12-18-07) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.10  ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No suit shall be maintained in any court to restrain or delay the
collection or payment of the tax levied by this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Any tax collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter may
be refunded or credited within two years of the date prescribed by law for the
filing of a return or the date the money was paid to the city, whichever is the
later, except that:
         (a)   In any case where the assessment period contained in §
110.09 has been extended by an agreement between the business entity and the
city, the limitation contained in this division (B) shall be extended
accordingly.
         (b)   If the claim for refund or credit relates directly to
adjustments resulting from a federal audit, the business entity shall file a
claim for refund or credit within the time provided for in this division (B) or
six months from the conclusion of the federal audit, whichever is later.
      (2)   For the purposes of this division (B) and division (A) above, a
return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the return shall
be considered as filed on the last day.
   (C)   The authority to refund or credit overpayments of taxes collected
pursuant to this chapter is vested exclusively in the city.
(Ord. 2007-005, passed 12-18-07)
§ 110.11  INFORMATION TO REMAIN CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   No present or former employee of any tax district shall intentionally
and without authorization inspect or divulge any information acquired by him or
her of the affairs of any person, or information regarding the tax schedules,
returns, or reports required to be filed with the tax district or other proper
officer, or any information produced by a hearing or investigation, insofar as
the information may have to do with the affairs of the person’s business. This
prohibition does not extend to information required in prosecutions for making
false reports or returns for taxation, or any other infraction of the tax laws,
or in any way made a matter of public record, nor does it preclude furnishing
any taxpayer or the taxpayer’s properly authorized agent with information
respecting his or her own return. Further, this prohibition does not preclude
any employee of the tax district from testifying in any court, or from
introducing as evidence returns or reports filed with the tax district, in an
action for violation of a tax district tax laws or in any action challenging a
tax district tax laws.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to disclose to the Commissioner of Revenue
of the Commonwealth of Kentucky or his or her duly authorized agent all such
information and rights to inspect any of the books and records of the city if
the Commissioner of Revenue of the Commonwealth of Kentucky grants to the city
the reciprocal right to obtain information form the files and records of the
Kentucky Department of Revenue and maintains the privileged character of the
information so furnished. Provided, further, that the city may publish
statistics based on such information in such a manner as not to reveal data
respecting net profits or compensation of any person.
   (C)   In addition, the city is empowered to execute similar reciprocity
agreements as described in division (B) above with any other taxing entity,
should there be a need for exchange of information in order to effect diligent
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-005, passed 12-18-07)
§ 110.12  USE OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX.
   All money derived from the license taxes under the provisions of this
chapter shall be paid to the city and placed to the credit of the city’s
general revenue fund.
(Ord. 2007-005, passed 12-18-07)
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   A business entity subject to tax on gross receipts may be
subject to a penalty equal to 5% of the tax due for each calendar month or
fraction thereof if the business entity:
         (a)   Fails to file any return or report on or before the due date
prescribed for filing or as extended by the city; or
         (b)   Fails to pay the tax computed on the return or report on or
before the due date prescribed for payment.
      (2)   The total penalty levied pursuant to this division (A) shall not
exceed 25% of the total tax due; however, the penalty shall not be less than
$25.
   (B)   Every employer who fails to file a return or pay the tax on or before
the time prescribed under §
110.05 may be subject to a penalty in amount equal to 5% of the tax due for
each calendar month or fraction thereof. The total penalty levied pursuant to
this division (B) shall not exceed 25% of the total tax due; however, the
penalty shall not be less than $25.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer shall pay, as part of the tax, an amount equal to 12% per
annum simple interest on the tax shown due, but not previously paid, from the
time the tax was due until the tax is paid to the city. A fraction of a month
is counted as an entire month.
   (D)   Every tax imposed by this chapter, and all increases, interest, and
penalties thereon, shall become, from the time the tax is due and payable, a
personal debt of the taxpayer to the city.
   (E)   The city may enforce the collection of the occupational tax due under
§
110.03 and any fees, penalties, and interest as provided in divisions (A)
through (D) above by civil action in a court of appropriate jurisdiction. To
the extent authorized by law, the city shall be entitled to recover all court
costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by it in enforcing any provision of
this chapter.
   (F)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer who willfully fails to make a return or willfully makes a
false return, or who willfully fails to pay taxes owing or collected, with the
intent to evade payment of the tax or amount collected, or any part thereof,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (G)   Any person who willfully aids or assists in, or procures, counsels, or
advises the preparation or presentation under, or in connection with, any
matter arising under this chapter of a return, affidavit, claim, or other
document, which is fraudulent or is false as to any material matter, whether or
not the falsity or fraud is with the knowledge or consent of the person
authorized or required to present the return, affidavit, claim, or document,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (H)   A RETURN for the purpose of this section shall mean and include any
return, declaration, or form prescribed by the city and required to be filed
with the city by the provisions of this chapter, or by the rules of the city or
by written request for information to the business entity by the city.
   (I)   Any person violating the provisions of §
110.11 by intentionally inspecting confidential taxpayer information without
authorization, shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not longer
than six months, or both.
   (J)   Any person violating the provisions of §
110.11 by divulging confidential taxpayer information shall be fined not more
than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.
(Ord. 2007-005, passed 12-18-07)
CHAPTER 111:  PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS.  The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS.  Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT or TEMPORARY MERCHANT. 
      (1)   Any person bringing into and exhibiting for sale in the city, any
goods, merchandise such as bankrupt stock, or any other stock of like kind,
wholesale or any goods damaged by smoke, fire, water, wreck, or in any other
manner, or engaging in business in the city temporarily, either independently
or as an association with a bona fide merchant trader or dealer for the purpose
of disposing of such merchandise. (Ord. 89-3, passed 6-6-89)
      (2)   Provided that a merchant who brings into and exhibits for sale in
the city of undamaged new or remanufactured goods or merchandise not
represented as bankrupt stock and who complies with the requirements of Chapter
110 shall not be considered an itinerant or temporary merchant subject to §
111.02(B) regardless of the length of time said merchant is present in the
city.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale, or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city.
      (3)   A person who is a peddler is not an itinerant merchant.
   SOLICITOR.  Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future.  A person who is a solicitor is not
a peddler.
(Ord. 2003-010, passed 7-15-03)
§ 111.02  LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an peddler or solicitor shall obtain a license
before engaging in such activity within the city.
      (1)   The fee for the license required by this chapter for peddlers or
solicitors shall be as set from time to time by the legislative body.
      (2)   All licenses for peddlers or solicitors under this chapter shall
expire 90 days after the date of issuance thereof.
   (B)   Each person bringing into and exhibiting for sale in the city, any
goods, merchandise such as bankrupt stock, or any other stock of like kind,
wholesale or any goods damaged by smoke, fire, water wreck or in any other
manner or to engage in business in the city temporarily, either independently
or as an association as a bona fide merchant, trader or dealer for the purpose
of disposing of such merchandise shall be deemed an itinerant merchant or
temporary merchant and before these merchants do business within the city, they
must obtain from the administrator or City Clerk, a license to conduct
business. The cost of such a license shall be $200 and the license shall expire
at the end of one calendar day.  (Ord. 89-3, passed 6-6-89; Am. Ord. 95-003,
passed 6-15-95; Am. Ord. 99-002, passed 2-9-99)
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03  APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk.  This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation.  The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual;
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock;
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application;
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant;
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application the following:
      (1)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising proposed
to be used in connection with the applicant’s business;
      (2)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any, for
which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act
as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C), a
statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04  STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. 
In particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude; or
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application; or
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like; or
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application.
§ 111.05  REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06.  Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing.  Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06  STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
or
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license; or
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter; or
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 111.07  APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the legislative body.  The appeal
shall be taken by filing with the legislative body, within 14 days after notice
of the decision has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal.  The legislative body shall set
the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the legislative body after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08  EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein.  In the event more
than one place within the city shall used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter.  The license shall contain the words “Licensed
Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license, and the
number of the license.  The license shall be kept with the licensee during such
time as he is engaged in the business licensed.  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500.  Each day’s violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 112:  PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Bond
   
112.03   Register to be kept; daily reports
   
112.04   Receipt to be given for each article; sale of article
   
112.05   Maximum interest, resale price
   
112.06   Receipt to be given for payment of loan
   
112.07   Prohibited activities
   
112.08   Enforcement
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER.  Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property;
deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the property
back again at a stipulated price; makes a public display at his place of
business of the sign generally used by pawnbrokers to denote their business; or
who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on personal property or
deposit.
(KRS 226.010)
§ 112.02  BOND.
   Every person to whom a city license is granted to carry on the business of a
pawnbroker shall annually enter into bond to the city, with good and sufficient
surety to be approved by City Council, in the penal sum of $1000.  This bond
shall be conditioned that he will observe the provisions of this chapter and
all ordinances and laws in force in the city not inconsistent with this
chapter.
(KRS 226.020)
§ 112.03  REGISTER TO BE KEPT; DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and purchases of
all articles effected or made by him.  The register shall show the dates of all
loans or purchases, and the names of all persons who have left any property on
deposit as collateral security or as a delivery or sale.  Opposite the names
and dates shall be written in plain hand a full description of all property
purchased or received on deposit as collateral security, the time when the loan
falls due, the amount of purchase money, the amount loaned, and the interest
charged.  The register shall at all times be open to the inspection of any
police officer of the city when in the discharge of his official duty.
(KRS 226.040)
   (B)   Every pawnbroker shall, by 11:00 a.m. each day, make available to the
Chief of Police a true and correct written report of all goods received by him,
whether by pawn or purchase, during the 24 hours preceding each report.  The
report shall describe the goods as accurately as practicable. The Chief of
Police shall furnish blanks for these reports.  (KRS 226.070)
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04  RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR EACH ARTICLE; SALE OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall give a plain written or printed ticket for the
loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased or upon which money is loaned,
having on each a copy of the entries required by §
112.03(A) to be kept in his register.  He shall not make any charge for the
ticket or receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of 90
days from the maturity of the loan.  However, not less than ten days before
making the sale, the pawnbroker shall give notice to the person by whom the
article was pawned by mail addressed to the post office address of that person
as shown on the pawnbroker’s register, notifying such person that, unless he
redeems the article within ten days from the date of mailing of the notice, the
article will be sold.
(KRS 226.050)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05  MAXIMUM INTEREST, RESALE PRICE.
   Any pawnbroker as defined in §
112.01, may, in loaning money on deposit of personal property, charge, contract
for, or receive interest at a rate not exceeding 2% per month on the unpaid
principal balance of the loan, and may charge, contract for, and receive a
reasonable fee, not to exceed one-fifth of the value of the loan per month, for
investigating the title, storing and insuring the property, closing the loan,
making daily reports to local law enforcement officers if required by §
112.03, and for other expenses, losses, and incidental costs associated with
servicing such loans.  Further, this fee, when made and collected, shall not be
deemed as interest for any purpose of law.  No pawnbroker shall directly or
indirectly charge, receive, or contract for any interest or consideration
greater than that allowed by this section.
(KRS 226.080)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06  RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR PAYMENT OF LOAN.
   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower, shall
give to that person a plain and complete receipt for such payment, specifying
separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to interest. 
In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased personal property under an
agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on
receiving any payment of money from the person from whom the purchased, give
that person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the stipulated
resale price, and the amount received.
(KRS 226.090)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07  PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of either pledge or pawn, any article
whatever from a minor at any time nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
(KRS 226.030)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08  ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter unless
otherwise provided by KRS 226.100.  However, county police, for the purpose of
locating stolen goods, may carry out the provisions of KRS 226.060 within the
city.
(KRS 226.100)
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any pawnbroker or pawnbroker’s clerk who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter for which no penalty is otherwise provided shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
$50 nor more than $500, and his license may be forfeited to the city.  (KRS
226.990(1))
   (B)   Any pawnbroker who violates any of the provisions of §
112.03(B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $20
nor more than $100.  (KRS 226.990(3))
CHAPTER 113:  INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
113.01   Imposition of license fee
   
113.02   Amount of fee for fire and casualty companies
   
113.03   Due date; interest
   
113.04   Written breakdown of collections
§ 113.01  IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is imposed on each fire and casualty insurance company a license fee
on any insurance policy issued on property or risk within the corporate limits
of the city, on a calendar year basis.
(Ord. 85-01, passed 11-4-84; Am. Ord. 85-01-A, passed 12-10-84; Am. Ord. 85-01-
B, passed 4-2-85)
§ 113.02  AMOUNT OF FEE FOR FIRE AND CASUALTY COMPANIES.
   The license fee imposed on each fire and casualty insurance company which
issues fire and allied perils, casualty, auto and inland marine within the
corporate limits of the city shall be 8% of all the years premiums actually
collected within each calendar quarter by reason of issuance of the policy. 
Such policies on risks located within the corporate limits of the city on those
classes of business which such company is authorized to transact, less all
premiums returned to policy holders; however, any license fee or tax imposed
upon premium receipts shall not include premiums received for insuring
employers against liability for personal injuries to their employees, or death
caused thereby, under the provisions of the Workers’ Compensation Act and shall
not include premiums received on policies of group health insurance provided
for state employees under KRS 18A.225(2) and 18A.228 or, premiums received by
any state employee benefit fund created pursuant to KRS Chapter 18A for the
purpose of providing health benefits to state employees.
(Ord. 85-01, passed 11-4-84; Am. Ord. 85-01-A, passed 12-10-84; Am. Ord. 85-01-
B, passed 4-2-85)
§ 113.03  DUE DATE; INTEREST.
   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30 days
after the end of each calendar quarter.  License fees which are not paid on or
before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in
KRS 131.010(6).
(Ord. 85-01, passed 11-4-84; Am. Ord. 85-01-A, passed 12-10-84; Am. Ord. 85-01-
B, passed 4-2-85)
§ 113.04  WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this
chapter shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city a written breakdown of
all collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
      (1)   Casualty.
      (2)   Automobile.
      (3)   Inland marine.
      (4)   Fire and allied perils.
      (5)   Health.
      (6)   Life.
   (B)   This chapter clearly excludes and exempts taxes on the following:
      (1)   Premiums returned to policy owners.
      (2)   Premiums on policies not taken.
      (3)   Dividends paid or credited to policy owners.
      (4)   Premiums paid on property or risks owned by any federal, state,
county or city government, or any agency thereof.
      (5)   Premiums paid on property or risks owned by any bona fide religious
denomination or sect, or any nationally recognized charitable organization.
      (6)   Any and all bonds of a fiduciary, surety, and indemnity nature.
(Ord. 85-01, passed 11-4-84; Am. Ord. 85-01-A, passed 12-10-84; Am. Ord. 85-01-
B, passed 4-2-85)
CHAPTER 114:  AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
114.01   Coin-operated amusement machines
§ 114.01  COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT MACHINES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT MACHINE.  Any lawful coin- or token-operated machine
or device which contains no element of chance and automatically by or through
some mechanical operation affords music or amusement of some character with or
without vending any merchandise, but in addition to any such merchandise.  Such
coin-operated amusement machine shall not include any bona fide merchandise
vending machine in which there is incorporated no amusement features.  (KRS
137.010)
   (B)   There is hereby enacted a license tax equal to that tax designated by
KRS 137.410 per year on each coin-operated amusement machine within the city
limits.
   (C)   The license tax shall be collected and paid by the owner of the coin-
operated amusement machine within the city and shall be paid by such owner to
the City Clerk on or before January 3 of each calendar year.  In the event that
a license is applied for a time period less than a year, the tax shall be
prorated.
   (D)   The purpose of the license tax shall be for the maintenance and upkeep
of the city streets and the removal of liter and other beautification projects.
   (E)   Owners of vending coin-operated machines within the city where 50% of
the proceeds of those coin-operated machines goes to charitable organizations
shall be exempt from the license tax.
   (F)   In the event that the license tax is not paid within the designated
time period, the machines will be subject to confiscation by the city as being
in violation of this section.
(Ord. 80-07, passed 4-1-80)
CHAPTER 115:  DELIVERY BUSINESSES
Section
   
115.01   License required to carry freight for hire
   
115.02   License fee
   
115.03   Disposition of funds
   
115.04   Display of owner’s name and address on vehicle
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01  LICENSE REQUIRED TO CARRY FREIGHT FOR HIRE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to conduct the
business of carrying freight for hire, by means of a truck or trucks, or for
the owner or operator of any motor truck, to operate, stop, or unload or load
the same while engaged in the pursuit of any business or occupation within the
city, without first having obtained a license therefor.  Applications for a
license to carry freight for hire by means of a truck, or to operate, stop, or
load or unload a truck while engaged in a business or occupation within the
city shall be made to the City Clerk, and shall designate on such application
the name of the licensee, the location of his business, and the number of
vehicles intended to be used by him within the city.
(Ord. 77-03, passed 6-7-77)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.02  LICENSE FEE.
   The annual fee for such license shall be $25 for each truck of a weight of
one-half ton or less; and $50 for each truck of a weight of more than one-half
ton, but less than one ton and $150 for each truck in excess of one ton.
(Ord. 77-03, passed 6-7-77)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.03  DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All fees collected as prescribed in §
115.02 shall be placed in a special designated fund and shall be used solely
for the administration and financing of maintenance and repairs to the streets
and roads in the city.
(Ord. 77-03, passed 6-7-77) 
§ 115.04  DISPLAY OF OWNER’S NAME AND ADDRESS ON VEHICLE.
   Each vehicle used for the businesses or occupations described in §
115.01 within the city shall have printed thereon in a place easily visible
from the side of the vehicle the name and the address of the owner in letters
legible to one of normal eyesight at a distance of 25 feet.
(Ord. 77-03, passed 6-7-77) 
Cross-reference:
   Occupation Licenses, see
Chapter 110
   Vehicle weight and length restrictions, see §§
71.60 through
71.64
§ 115.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than
30 days, or both such fine and imprisonment.
CHAPTER 116:  TOURISM AND CONVENTIONS
Section
Tourist and Convention Commission
   
116.01   Creation
   
116.02   Membership; terms
   
116.03   Purpose and powers
   
116.04   Annual request for funds
   
116.05   Fiscal limitations
Restaurant Tax
   
116.15   Definition
   
116.16   Imposition of tax
   
116.17   Payment of tax; due date
   
116.18   Temporary food stands not exempt
   
116.19   Delinquency; rate of interest
   
116.20   Taxes in addition to occupational or business permit fees
   
116.21   Keeping of records
   
116.22   Collection fee
Hotels, Motels and Rooming Houses
   
116.35   Definition
   
116.36   Proof of identification, registration required for room rental
   
116.37   Imposition and amount of license tax
   
116.38   Payment of tax; due date
   
116.39   Purpose; disposition of tax
 
   
116.99   Penalty
TOURIST AND CONVENTION COMMISSION
§ 116.01  CREATION.
   There shall be the Tourist and Convention Commission, hereinafter referred
to as the Commission.
(Ord. 90-20, passed 10-9-90)
§ 116.02  MEMBERSHIP; TERMS.
   The Commission shall consist of seven Commissioners to be appointed by the
Mayor in the following manner:
   (A)   Two Commissioners shall be appointed from a list of three or more
names submitted by the local city hotel and motel association; and one
Commissioner shall be appointed from a list of three or more names submitted by
the local county hotel and motel association, provided that if only one local
hotel and motel association exists which covers both the city and county, then
three Commissioners shall be appointed from a list of six or more names
submitted by it. If no formal local city or county hotel or motel association
is in existence upon the establishment of the Commission or upon the expiration
of the term of a Commissioner appointed pursuant to this section, then up to
three Commissioners shall be appointed by the appropriate chief executive
officer or officers from persons residing within the jurisdiction of the
Commission and representing local hotels or motels. A local city or county
hotel and motel association shall not be required to be affiliated with the
Kentucky Hotel and Motel Association to be recognized as the official local
city or county hotel and motel association.
   (B)   One Commissioner shall be appointed from a list of three or more names
submitted by the local restaurant association or associations. If no formal
local restaurant association or associations exist upon the establishment of
the Commission or upon the expiration of a term of a Commissioner appointed
pursuant to this division, then one Commissioner shall be appointed by the
appropriate chief executive officer or officers from persons residing within
the jurisdiction of the Commission and representing a local restaurant.  A
local restaurant association or associations shall not be required to be
affiliated with the Kentucky Restaurant Association to be recognized as the
official local restaurant association or associations.
   (C)   One Commissioner shall be appointed from a list of three or more names
submitted by the chamber or chambers of commerce existing within those
governmental units, which by joint or separate action have established the
Commission. If the Commission is established by joint action of a county and a
city or cities, then each chamber of commerce shall submit a list of three
names, and the chief executive officers of the participating governmental units
shall jointly appoint one Commission member from the aggregate list. If no
local chamber of commerce is in existence upon the establishment of a
commission or upon the expiration of the term of a commissioner appointed
pursuant to this division, then one Commissioner shall be appointed by the
appropriate chief executive officer or officers from persons residing within
the jurisdiction of the Commission and representing local businesses.
   (D)   Two Commissioners shall be appointed in the following manner:
      (1)   By the chief executive officer of the county or city, if the
Commission has been established by a separate action of a county or city; or
      (2)   One each by the chief executive officer of the county and the chief
executive officer of the most populous city participating in the establishment
of the Commission, if the Commission has been established by joint action of a
county and a city or cities.
   (E)   A candidate submitted for appointment to the Commission, pursuant to
divisions (A) through (C) shall be appointed by the appropriate chief executive
officer or officers within 30 days of the receipt of the required list or
lists.  Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner that original appointments
are made.
   (F)   The Commissioners shall be appointed for terms of three years,
provided, that in making the initial appointments, the appropriate chief
executive officer or officers shall appoint two Commissioners for a term of
three years, two Commissioners for a term of two years, and three Commissioners
for a term of one year. There shall be no limitation on the number of terms to
which a Commissioner is reappointed. Subsequent appointments shall be for three
year terms.
   (G)   The Commission shall elect a Chairman and a Treasurer, who shall serve
without compensation. These positions or any other member writing checks shall
be bonded in an amount commensurate to the largest amount of money on hand in
any given month. (KRS 91A.360 (1)(a) — (3) and KRS 91A.360(4))
(Am. Ord. 2017-004, passed 4-13-17)
§ 116.03  PURPOSE AND POWERS.
   Commission may employ such personnel and make such contracts as are
necessary to effectively carry out the purpose of KRS 91A.350 et seq. Such
contracts may include but shall not be limited to the procurement of
promotional services, advertising services and other services and materials
relating to the tourist and convention business; provided however, that such
contracts be made only with persons, organizations and firms with experience
and qualifications for providing promotional services and materials, such as
advertising firms, chambers of commerce, publishers and printers. KRS 91A.360
(4)
(Ord. 90-20, passed 10-9-90; Am. Ord. 2017-004, passed 4-13-17)
§ 116.04  ANNUAL REQUEST FOR FUNDS.
   (A)   The Recreation and Tourism Commission shall annually submit to the
City Council a request for funds for the operation of the Commission for the
ensuing year. The Council shall include the Commission in its annual budget and
shall provide funds, to the extent it deems necessary, for the operation of the
Commission in its annual budget. KRS 91A.390 (l)(a-b)
   (B)   The City recognizes the Paintsville Park, Pool and Playground, the
Paintsville Golf Course and any other city recreational parks or facilities
existing now or hereafter established, to be a major attraction for visitors in
the area, and it is the intent of this chapter to provide sufficient funding to
the city park system to maintain city recreational facilities at a high level
for future growth and development of the city's tourism economy. The Recreation
and Tourism Commission should, therefore, include in its annual budget funds
for the cost of maintenance, acquisition, construction, and operation of city
park facilities useful in the attraction and promotion of tourist and
convention business, including athletic facilities. Upon the advice and consent
of the Recreation and Tourism Commission a maximum of 45% of its funds of the
Hotel, Motel and Restaurant Tax collected in the previous fiscal year shall be
budgeted to the City Parks and Recreation and the Paintsville Golf Course for
such purposes. KRS 91A.390(3)
(Ord. 2017-004, passed 4-13-17)
§ 116.05  FISCAL LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The City Council forbids the Recreation and Tourism Commission to
issue revenue bonds or to borrow money beyond the fiscal year without the
express approval of the City Council. The fiscal year shall begin on July 1 of
each year and terminate on the following June 30. KRS 91A.390(7).
   (B)   The Commission is strongly encouraged to obtain approval of City
Council for any purchase or projects that are estimated at a cost of $10,000 or
more, in obtaining approval the Commission will provide to Council any and all
documents, plans, data, research, appraisals, blueprints, etc. regarding the
purchase or project.
   (C)   The books of the commission and its account as established in KRS
91A.390(2) shall be audited as provided in KRS 65A.030. The independent
certified public accountant or Auditor of Public Accounts shall make a report
to the commission, to the associations submitting lists of names from which
commission members are selected, to the appropriate chief executive officer or
officers, to the State Auditor of Public Accounts, and to the local governing
body or bodies that established the commission that was audited. A copy of the
audit report shall be made available by the commission to members of the public
upon request and at no charge.
(Ord. 2017-004, passed 4-13-17)
RESTAURANT TAX
§ 116.15  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RESTAURANT.  Any fixed or mobile commercial establishment that engages in
the preparation and serving of ready-to-eat foods in portions to the consumer,
including, but not limited to: restaurants; coffee shops; cafeterias; short
order cafes; luncheonettes; grilles; tea rooms; sandwich shops; soda fountains;
roadside stands; street vendors; catering kitchens; delicatessen; or similar
places in which food is prepared for sale for consumption on the premises or
elsewhere.  It does not include schools, food vending machines, establishments
serving beverages only in single service or original containers.  (Ord. 90-20,
passed 10-9-90)
§ 116.16  IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   For the purpose of operation of the Recreation and Tourism Commission and to
finance the cost of acquisition, construction, operation and maintenance on
facilities useful in the attraction and promotion of tourist and convention
business, including the city park system, there is hereby imposed and levied a
special tax of 3% of the gross retail sales of restaurants doing business
within the city.
(Ord. 90-20, passed 10-9-90; Am. Ord. 2003-004, passed 3-11-03)
§ 116.17  PAYMENT OF TAX; DUE DATE.
   The funds collected from this tax shall be maintained by the City Clerk in a
special fund and disbursed to the Commission in accordance with the city's
annual budget. Any money not expended by the Commission during any fiscal year
will be used to make up a part of the Commission's budget for the next fiscal
year.
(Ord. 90-20, passed 10-9-90; Am. Ord. 2002-03, passed 8-13-02; Am. Ord. 2017-
004, passed 4-13-17)  Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.18  TEMPORARY FOOD STANDS NOT EXEMPT.
   Temporary food stands, booths, street concessions and similar type
operations, whether operated by nonprofit corporations or not, when food is
prepared and sold for immediate consumption, are not exempt from this tax.
(Ord. 90-20, passed 10-9-90)
§ 116.19  DELINQUENCY; RATE OF INTEREST.
   (A)   The City Clerk is hereby charged with the enforcement of provisions of
this section, and is hereby empowered to prescribe, adopt, and promulgate, and
enforce rules and regulations relating to any matter pertaining to the
administration and enforcement of the provisions of this section, including but
not limited to the reexamination and correction of returns to which and
underpayment or overpayment is claimed or found to have been made, and the
rules and regulations as promulgated by the Clerk shall be binding upon the
taxpayer. Provided, however, all such rules, regulations and decisions shall be
subject to the approval of the Mayor and City Council. The City Clerk may
request the assistance of the City Attorney in enforcing this section.
   (B)   Any person who purposefully refuses to file a return, pay the tax due,
or who knowingly files a false or fraudulent return required herein, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor subject to a fine of not more than $100 for each
violation, imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or both. Each violation
shall constitute and be punishable as a separate offense.
   (C)   The city shall be entitled to recover from the violating restaurant
all costs and reasonable attorney's fees incurred by the city in enforcing any
provision of this section.
   (D)   Lien. A lien is granted unto the city upon all property, real and
personal, of any restaurant facility, to secure the unpaid tax receipts due
from that restaurant. The lien shall be perfected by filing a notice of tax due
and statement of lien in the Office of the County Court Clerk, describing the
property on which the lien is asserted. Also during this time, any business
license valid in the city shall be revoked.
(Ord. 90-20, passed 10-9-90; Am. Ord. 2017-004, passed 4-13-17)  Penalty, see §
116.99
Cross-reference:
   Duty of employee when employer fails to withhold, report of pay, see §
110.08
   Occupational licenses, see
Ch. 110
§ 116.20  TAXES IN ADDITION TO OCCUPATIONAL OR BUSINESS PERMIT FEES.
   The tax imposed in this subchapter shall be in addition to other general
taxes as the occupational tax or business permit payable to the city. 
(Ord. 90-20, passed 10-9-90)
§ 116.21  KEEPING OF RECORDS.
   It will be the responsibility of the taxpayer to maintain books, records,
and papers in support of all amounts reported on the quarterly return.  To
determine the accuracy of any return filed or, if no return was filed when due,
to determine the amount of tax due pursuant to this section, the City Clerk or
his or her designee shall be permitted to examine the books, papers, and
records of any restaurant doing business in the city. The City Clerk may compel
the production of any restaurant's books, papers, records, and vendors' contact
information. Any restaurant shall, upon receipt of a written request from the
City Clerk or his or her designee, authorize its vendors to disclose to the
City Clerk or his or her designee the goods and services, including the
quantity and price thereof, furnished to the restaurant. In the event an
investigation is conducted and it is determined this section has been violated,
the violator shall be responsible for all costs of the investigation and
collection in addition to any tax, interest, or penalties otherwise owed.
(Ord. 90-20, passed 10-9-90; Am. Ord. 2017-004, passed 4-13-17)
§ 116.22  COLLECTION FEE.
   A collection fee in the amount of 1½% shall be retained by the city.
(Ord. 90-20, passed 10-9-90)
HOTELS, MOTELS AND ROOMING HOUSES
§ 116.35  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOTEL, MOTEL, ROOMING HOUSE and BOARDING HOUSE.  These terms shall not be
construed to include apartment houses, or any other facility where rental
periods are usually and customarily for the period of 30 days or longer.
(Ord. 78-12, passed 12-11-78; Am. Ord. 80-01, passed 2-5-80; Am. Ord. 86-06,
passed 6-10-86)
§ 116.36  PROOF OF IDENTIFICATION, REGISTRATION REQUIRED FOR ROOM RENTAL.
   No business establishment within the city shall rent rooms or sleeping space
for periods of less than one month until:
   (A)   The occupant has provided proof of identification to the business
establishment; and
   (B)   The occupant has registered by declaring on a card register, to be
retained for not less than 90 days by the business establishment, his name and
address.
(Ord. 70-09, passed 10-6-70)
§ 116.37  IMPOSITION AND ANNUAL AMOUNT OF LICENSE.
   There is enacted a license tax equal to 3% of each room charge made,
incurred or collected by all hotels, motels, rooming houses and boarding houses
and all other businesses furnishing lodging for transient persons and other
persons for hire without the city.
(Ord. 78-12, passed 12-11-78; Am. Ord. 80-01, passed 2-5-80; Am. Ord. 86-06,
passed 6-10-86; Am. Ord. 2003-005, passed 3-11-03)
§ 116.38  PAYMENT OF TAX; DUE DATE.
   The tax shall be collected and paid by the keeper of each hotel, motel,
rooming house or boarding house within the city and shall be paid by such
keeper to the City Clerk not later than the tenth day of the month following
the calendar month within which the charge was incurred.
(Ord. 78-12, passed 12-11-78; Am. Ord. 80-01, passed 2-5-80; Am. Ord. 86-06,
passed 6-10-86)  Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.39  PURPOSE; DISPOSITION OF TAX.
   The purpose of the tax shall be for the promotion of tourism, recreation and
transient type activities and all purposes permitted under KRS 91A.350 and
91A.390.  The funds shall be collected, segregated from the general fund by
either separate account of the city books or separate bank account.
(Ord. 78-12, passed 12-11-78; Am. Ord. 80-01, passed 2-5-80; Am. Ord. 86-06,
passed 6-10-86)
§ 116.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is otherwise provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined up to $500.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
116.15 through
116.22 by purposely refusing to file a return, pay the tax due, or by knowingly
filing a false or fraudulent return required herein shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of not more than $100 for each
violation, imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or both. 
(Ord. 90-06, passed 3-26-90)
CHAPTER 117:  CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
117.01   Adoption of FCC rules and regulations
   
117.02   Public hearing
   
117.03   Review of rates
   
117.04   Review of cost-of-service
   
117.05   City Council to adopt decision by resolution
   
117.06   Disclosure of records
   
117.07   Refunds
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01  ADOPTION OF FCC RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council hereby adopt the rules and regulations set
forth by the Federal Communications Commission pursuant to Section 623(b) of
the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992 [47 U.S.C.
543(b)] for the review of the basic service tier of cable television services
and equipment necessary for the provision of such service tier. Such rules and
regulations promulgated by the Federal Communications Commission are available
for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   For the purposes of this chapter, the basic service tier of cable
television services shall mean a separately available service tier to which
subscription is required for access to any other tier of service, including as
a minimum, but not limited to, all signals of domestic television broadcast
stations provided to any subscriber, (except a signal secondarily transmitted
by satellite carrier beyond the local service area of such station, regardless
of how such signal is ultimately received by the cable system) any public,
educational, and governmental programming required by the franchise to be
carried on the basic tier, and any additional video programming signals or
service added to the basic tier by the cable operator. Equipment necessary to
provide said basic tier of service shall be defined as those items of
associated equipment necessary for the reception of basic cable service by a
subscriber, including, but not limited to converter boxes, remote control
units, additional outlets, and installations.
(Ord. 94-002, passed 2-15-94)
§ 117.02  PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   The city shall provide the grantee of the cable television franchise,
the public, and interested parties with an opportunity to be heard at a public
hearing before the City Council, upon ten days written notice to the grantee of
the cable television franchise of the time and place of the public hearing
provided further that said notice shall indicate that the purpose of the public
hearing is to receive the views of the grantee and interested parties on issues
pertaining to regulation of the basic service tier of cable television services
and equipment necessary t provide said basic tier or service; and provided
further that notice of said public hearing shall be published in a local
newspaper of general circulation at least ten days before the date of this
hearing, and provided further, that an agenda for said public hearing shall be
posted in a public place at the City Building at least seven days prior to the
public hearing.
   (B)   Upon the adoption of this chapter and the certification of the city by
the Federal Communications Commission, the city shall immediately notify the
cable operator by certified mail, return receipt requested, that the city
intends to regulate subscriber rates charged for the basic service tier and
associated equipment as authorized by the Cable Television Consumer Protection
and Competition Act of 1992. Upon receipt of said notice from the city, the
Cable Operator shall, within 30 days, file with the city its current rates for
the basic service tier and associated equipment along with any additional
documentation justifying the reasonableness of its rates.
(Ord. 94-002, passed 2-15-94)
§ 117.03  REVIEW OF RATES.
   (A)   The city shall establish that the period for review of rates of the
basic service tier of cable television services and the equipment necessary to
provide said basic tier of service shall be 30 days from the submission by the
grantee of the cable television franchise of Federal Communications Commission
Form 393. If the City Council takes no action within 30 days from the date this
cable operator files its basic cable rates with the city, the proposed rates
will continue in effect.
   (B)   In the event that additional time for review of the Federal
Communications Commission Form 393 submitted by grantee is necessary, the City
Council or their designee shall issue a brief written order prior to the end of
the 30 day review period, with a copy of said order to be sent by Certified
United States Mail to the grantee, providing for an additional 90 day period
for review of rates of the basic service tier and the equipment necessary to
provide said basic tier of service. During the extended review period and
before taking action on the proposed rate, the City Council shall hold at least
one public hearing in which interested citizens may express their views and
record objections.
(Ord. 94-002, passed 2-15-94)
§ 117.04  REVIEW OF COST-OF-SERVICE.
   (A)   The city shall establish that the period for review of the basic
service tier of cable television services and the equipment necessary to
provide said basic tier of service shall be 90 days from the submission by the
grantee of information and forms prescribed by the Federal Communications
Commission for a showing of cost-of-service, as defined by the Federal
Communications Commission.
   (B)   In the event that the additional time for review of the cost-of-
service showing submitted by the grantee is necessary, the City Council or
their designee shall issue a brief written order prior to the end of the 90 day
review period with a copy of said order to be sent by Certified United States
Mail to the grantee, providing for an additional 150 day period for review of
rates of the basic service tier and the equipment necessary to provide said
basic tier of service. During the extended review period and before taking
action on the proposed rate, the City Council shall hold at least one public
hearing in which interested citizens may express their view and record
objections.
(Ord. 94-002, passed 2-15-94)
§ 117.05  CITY COUNCIL TO ADOPT DECISION BY RESOLUTION.
   (A)   Upon completion of its review of the proposed rates for the basic
service tier of cable television services and the equipment necessary to
provide said basic tier or service, the City Council shall adopt its decision
by formal resolution. The resolution shall indicate the reasons for the
decision. Upon passage of the resolution, the City Council shall publish the
resolution.
   (B)   In the event that the cable operator’s proposed rates exceed the
reasonable rate standard as established by the Federal Communications
Commission in its rules and regulations attached hereto, the City Council may
order the rates reduced by rollbacks or refunds to subscribers, in the manner
so prescribed by the Federal Communications Commission.
(Ord. 94-002, passed 2-15-94)
§ 117.06  DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS.
   In considering information provided by the grantee as a part of review of
his rates for the basic service tier of cable television services and the
equipment necessary to provide said basic tier of service, the city shall not
disclose to the public the content of any records, forms, reports,
calculations, or other documents as provided which the grantee has indicated as
being of a proprietary interest or constituting a trade secret in nature.
(Ord. 94-002, passed 2-15-94)
§ 117.07  REFUNDS.
   The city may order the cable operator to refund to subscribers a portion of
previously paid rates under the following circumstances:
   (A)   A portion of the previously paid rates have been determined to be in
excess of the permitted basic cable service tier charge or above the actual
cost of equipment; or
   (B)   The cable operator has failed to comply with a valid rate order issued
by the city.
(Ord. 94-002, passed 2-15-94)
§ 117.99  PENALTY.
   Failure by the cable operator to comply with the terms and conditions
established by this chapter, including its attachment hereto, shall constitute
a violation of this chapter as well as Ord. 89-05A (the Cable Television
Franchise Ordinance). Penalties for such violation are subject to the
conditions of §
10.99.
(Ord. 94-002, passed 2-15-94)
CHAPTER 118:  APPLE FESTIVAL VENDORS
Section:
   
118.01   Title
   
118.02   Definition
   
118.03   License
   
118.04   Apple Board
   
118.99   Penalty
§ 118.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Apple Festival Vendor Ordinance.
(Ord. 95-006, passed 7-11-95)
§ 118.02  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   VENDOR.  Any individual group or organization who sells a product or service
or provides any entertainment during the Apple Festival.  This chapter shall
apply only to vendors who are itinerant in nature and specifically shall not
apply to Paintsville City Merchants in their normal operation and scope of
business.
(Ord. 95-006, passed 7-11-95)
§ 118.03  LICENSE.
   Each vendor, during the Sunday through Sunday period in which the Apple
Festival is conducted, shall be required to obtain an Itinerant Merchant
License from the Apple Board.
(Ord. 95-006, passed 7-11-95)
§ 118.04  APPLE BOARD.
   (A)   Authority is hereby vested in the Apple Board to regulate and provide
for controls regarding the granting of any such itinerant license.
   (B)   Authority is further granted to the Apple Board to issue itinerant
licenses.
   (C)   The Apple Board will promulgate regulations under the authority
granted herein at least 30 days prior to the Apple Festival for which the
licenses will be in effect.  The regulations shall be published as required by
statute.
(Ord. 95-006, passed 7-11-95)
§ 118.99  PENALTY.
   Any vendor who violates this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
fined not more than $500. Each day such violation continues, shall be
considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 95-006, passed 7-11-95)
CHAPTER 119:  SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
119.01   Definitions
   
119.02   Effects on other laws
License
   
119.20   License required
   
119.21   Application
   
119.22   Issuance of license
   
119.23   Fees
   
119.24   Posting of license
   
119.25   Inspections
   
119.26   Expiration and renewal of license
   
119.27   Suspension
   
119.28   Revocation
   
119.29   Appeal
   
119.30   Transfer of license
Additional Applicable Regulations
   
119.40   Minors
   
119.41   Visibility from outside premises
   
119.42   Alteration of interior
   
119.43   Occupation of management stations
   
119.44   Furnishings restricted
   
119.45   Display of sexually explicit material to minors
   
119.46   Location
Enforcement
   
119.55   Civil remedies
 
   
119.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 119.01  DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases when used in this chapter have a meaning as
set forth herein:
   ADULT VIDEO ARCADE.  Any commercial establishment to which the public is
permitted or invited wherein coin-operated or slug operated or electronically,
electrically, or mechanically controlled still or motion pictures, projectors,
or other image-producing devices, to include computer and electronic games, are
maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time,
and where the images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by the
depicting or describing of “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas.”
   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE.  A commercial establishment which as
one of its principal business purposes offers for sale or rental for any form
of consideration any one or more of the following:
      (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or discs,
cassettes or video representations, slides or other visual representations
which depict or describe “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical
areas.”
      (2)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for use
in connection with “specified sexual activities.” Not included in this
definition are pharmaceutical supplies normally found in a pharmacy.
   ADULT CABARET.  A commercial establishment which regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or partial nudity; or
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
“specified anatomical areas” or by “specified sexual activities;” or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
   ADULT LINGERIE STORE/MODELING STUDIO.  A commercial establishment where live
models exhibit lingerie intended for an adult audience.
   ADULT LOUNGE.  An adult cabaret which is permitted or licensed pursuant to
the Alcoholic Beverage Code where alcoholic beverages may be served, sold or
consumed.
   ADULT MOTEL.  A hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment which
offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration; provides
patrons with closed circuit television  transmission, films, motion  pictures,
video cassettes,  slides,  discs  or  other  photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas,” and/or has a sign visible from the
public right-of-way which advertises the availability of this adult type of
entertainment.
   ADULT MOVIE THEATER or ADULT VIDEO THEATER.  A commercial establishment
where, for any form of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
slides, discs or other photographic reproductions which are characterized by
the depiction or description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas” are regularly shown to groups of six or more people.
   ADULT THEATER.  A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity,
or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of “specified
anatomical areas” or “specified sexual activities.”
   BUILDING OFFICIAL.  Any individual appointed by or designated by the city
through either appointment or contract to enforce the zoning ordinance for the
city and/or enforce the Kentucky Building Codes for the State of Kentucky.
   CHURCH or REGULAR PLACE OF WORSHIP.  Any structure used principally as a
place wherein persons regularly assemble for religious worship including, but
not limited to, sanctuaries, chapels, cathedrals, churches, synagogues, and on-
site buildings adjacent thereto, such as parsonages, convents, fellowship
halls, Sunday Schools and rectories.
   CITY CLERK.  The individual lawfully acting as the City Clerk of the city
pursuant to the City Charter, or his or her designated representative.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.  As used in this chapter, the term CONTROLLED
SUBSTANCE means any substance defined as a controlled substance by the Kentucky
Controlled Substance Act, as then amended.
   DAY CARE.  A facility which provides care and/or supervision for adults or
children on a day to day basis.
   DRESSING ROOM.  An enclosed area designed to allow a single person to try on
items of apparel for the purpose of determining suitability.
   ESCORT.  A person who accompanies an individual for social purposes for any
consideration.
   ESCORT AGENCY.  A person or commercial enterprise which for a fee, tip, or
other consideration offers to furnish, or advertises to furnish, escorts as one
of its primary business purposes.
   ESTABLISHMENT.  Any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually-oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually-
oriented business, to any sexually-oriented business;
      (3)   The addition of any sexually-oriented business to any other
existing sexually-oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually-oriented business.
   GAMBLING.  As used in this chapter, the term GAMBLING shall have the meaning
set forth at KRS 528.010, as then amended.
   INTENDED OPERATOR.  The person principally in charge of the day to day
operation of the establishment.
   KNOWINGLY.  As used in this chapter, the term KNOWINGLY shall have the
meaning set forth at KRS 119.205, as then amended.
   LICENSEE.  A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually-oriented
business has been issued pursuant to the terms of this chapter.
   MODELING/NUDE MODELING STUDIO.  A commercial establishment where a person
who appears in a state of nudity or displays “specified anatomical areas” is
provided to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or
similarly depicted by other persons who pay money or any form of consideration.
   NUDITY/PARTIAL NUDITY.  Appearing in a state of dress which displays one or
more “specified anatomical areas.”
   OPERATES OR CAUSES TO BE OPERATED.  To cause to function or to put or keep
in operation. A person may be found to be operating or causing to be operated a
sexually-oriented business whether or not that person is an owner, part owner
or license holder of the establishment. A person who, which on the premises of
sexually-oriented business, does any one or more of the following shall be
deemed to be operating or conducting such a business:
      (1)   Operates a cash register, cash drawer, or other depository where
checks, cash funds or records of credit card or other credit transactions
generated in connection with the activities of the business are kept; or
      (2)   Displays or takes orders from many customers for any merchandise,
goods, entertainment or other service offered in connection with the activities
of the business; or
      (3)   Delivers or provides to any customer any merchandise, goods,
entertainment or other services offered in connection with the activities of
the business; or
      (4)   Acts as a door attendant to regulate entry of customers or other
persons into the business premises; or
      (5)   Supervises or manages other persons in the performance of any of
the foregoing activities.
   PERSON.  An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   PRINCIPAL BUSINESS PURPOSE.  For purposes of this chapter, a commercial
establishment has a principle business purpose of selling or renting any
sexually explicit material if such sales or rentals make up a minimum of 15% of
that establishment’s monthly gross receipts.
   RENT.  The act of permitting space to be occupied for any form of
consideration.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.  Single-Family Dwellings (R-1); Double Family
Dwellings (R-2); Multiple-Family Dwellings (R-3) as defined in the Paintsville
Zoning Ordinance, as amended.
   RESTROOMS.  Restrooms as used in this chapter shall be synonymous with
toilet facilities, lavatory, and bathing facilities. No sexual-oriented
business activities shall be permitted in any such facilities.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER.  A business or commercial enterprise that, as one
of its primary business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or partial
nudity.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS.
      (1)   An adult bookstore, adult video arcade, adult bookstore or video
store, adult cabaret, adult lingerie store/modeling studio, adult lounge, adult
motel, adult movie theater, adult video theater, adult theater, escort agency,
modeling studio, nude modeling studio, sexual encounter center, or other
commercial enterprise the primary business of which is the offering of a
service or the selling, renting or exhibiting of devices or any other items,
intended to provide sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to the customer.
      (2)   The following are exempted from regulation under this chapter:
         (a)   A business operated by or employing a licensed psychologist,
licensed physical therapist, licensed athletic trainer, licensed cosmetologist,
licensed barber or any other state licensed/regulated professional engaged in
performing functions authorized under the license held; or
         (b)   A business operated by or employing a licensed physician or
licensed chiropractor engaged in practicing the healing arts.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.  Specified anatomical areas are:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         (a)   Human genitals;
         (b)   Human buttock or anus; or
         (c)   Female breasts below a point of immediately above the top of the
areola;
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered; or
      (3)   Any combination of the above.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.  Specified sexual activities are those
activities which display:
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy;
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock or female breasts; or
      (4)   Any combination of the above.
   SUB-RENT.  The act by one who has rented a room of permitting the room to be
occupied for any form of consideration.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL.  Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for the
transfer by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person
possessing the ownership or control.
   VIEWING ROOM.  An area designed to permit one or more persons the
opportunity to view or observe a dancer, model, or other performer in a
“private” or semi-private environment.
(Ord. 99-006, passed 6-15-99)
§ 119.02  EFFECTS ON OTHER LAWS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to legalize anything prohibited
under any other federal or state law or city ordinance. Any sexually-oriented
business lawfully operating on the effective date of this chapter which is then
in violation of this chapter shall be deemed a non-conforming use, and such
non-conforming use may be permitted to continue for a period not to exceed 90
days unless sooner terminated for any reason, or voluntarily discontinued for a
period of 30 days or more.
   (B)   If remodeling is necessary to comply with the sections cited and
accomplishing such remodeling within 90 days poses a hardship, the owner of the
sexually-oriented business may apply to the City Clerk for an extension not to
exceed an additional 60 days.
   (C)   Such request will be in writing describing the hardship, the owner’s
plan to effect compliance and time such changes will be completed.
(Ord. 99-006, passed 6-15-99)
LICENSE
§ 119.20  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   A person commits an offense if he or she operates, owns, or causes to be
operated, within the corporate limits of Paintsville, a sexually-oriented
business without a valid license authorizing such operation.
(Ord. 99-006, passed 6-15-99)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 119.21  APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by the
City Clerk. Before any applications will be taken from any person or entity
applying for said license, the City Clerk must be shown the required building
permit as required by the Kentucky Building Codes and also must produce a
certificate of occupancy. The applications shall not be accepted until it is
complete and contains:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and a statement as to whether the
applicant is an individual, partnership, corporation or other specified legal
entity;
      (2)   The name under which the business is to be operated and a
description of the sexually-oriented business to be conducted;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of each owner and operator;
      (4)   The street address and legal description of the parcel of land on
which the business is to be located, and the telephone number of the
enterprise;
      (5)   A detailed description of the business activities to be conducted
on the premises;
      (6)   A written declaration, sworn to under oath by the applicant or its
duly authorized agent, that the information contained in the application, is
true and correct;
      (7)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually-oriented business is
an individual, he/she must sign the application for a license as applicant. If
a person who wishes to operate a sexually-oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has a five percent or greater interest in the
business must sign the application for a license as applicant;
      (8)   A statement of gross receipts or sales known or anticipated from
the sale or rental of sexually-oriented products or materials.
   (B)   The application must be accompanied by a sketch or diagram showing the
configuration of the premises, including a statement of total floor space
occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram needs to be professionally
prepared and drawn to a design based on a scale or drawing with marked
dimensions on the interior of the premises. The applicant shall sign a
notarized statement attached to the diagram stating that the proposed plan for
the sexually-oriented business complies with the requirements set forth in this
chapter.  The applicant may submit a remodeling plan to scale for modification
of the current structure. If the plan is acceptable and the license is
approved, the license shall not be effective until the modification is
completed and a certificate of occupancy issued. The City Clerk may waive the
requirement that the diagram be submitted with renewal applications if the
application certifies that the configuration of the premises has not been
altered since the diagram on file with the original application was prepared.
      (1)   The diagram must show all interior walls and partitions, the
locations of one or more manager stations and the locations of lighting
fixtures. The diagram must clearly specify any areas in the premises to which
members of the public will not be permitted access, and must designate the
location where the license will be posted.
      (2)   Excepting only adult motels, the interior of the sexually-oriented
business premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an
unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of the premises to
which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding only restrooms.
Restrooms may not contain video, photographic, monitoring or other surveillance
equipment. The view required in this subsection must be a direct line of sight
from the manager’s station.
      (3)   It shall be an offense for any owner, operator, agent or employee
to knowingly permit the view area specified in subdivision (2) above to be
obstructed by any doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials
at any time that any patron is present on the premises, or to allow a patron
access to any area of the premises which has been designated in the application
filed pursuant to subdivision (1) of this section as an area in which patrons
will not be permitted.
      (4)   It shall be an offense for any owner, operator, agent or employee
to knowingly allow patrons access to any area that is not illuminated by
overhead lighting fixtures to an intensity of at least one foot-candle as
measured at floor level. Such light intensity shall be maintained at all times
during which the premises are open to the public.
   (C)   The premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with the
law by the County Health Department, Fire Department, and Building Official.
   (D)   The fact that a person possesses a valid theater license, dance hall
license, amusement device license, business license, certificate of occupancy,
or other license or permit does not exempt him from the requirement of
obtaining a sexually-oriented business license. Any person who owns or operates
a sexually-oriented business shall comply with the requirements and provisions
of this chapter and all other applicable ordinances of the city and laws of the
State of Kentucky.
(Ord. 99-006, passed 6-15-99)
§ 119.22  ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall approve or disapprove the issuance of a license
to an applicant within 30 days following the date on which the complete
application is filed with the city.  Failure of the City Clerk to disapprove an
application by the end of the 30th day following the day on which the complete
application is filed shall result in the administrative approval of such
application, and the license shall promptly thereafter be issued. Such license
shall nevertheless be subject to suspension or revocation as provided herein.
Each applicant must be qualified under this section of this chapter, and each
applicant shall be considered the licensee if a license is granted.
   (B)   Approval must be granted unless one or more of the following is true:
      (1)   Any applicant is under 18 years of age.
      (2)   An applicant is overdue in payment of any taxes, fees, utilities,
fines, court directed payments, assessments or interest to the city, or
penalties assessed against the applicant or imposed upon the applicant in
relation to a sexually-oriented business.
      (3)   An applicant has failed to provide information requesting on the
application form or has supplied false or misleading information in the
application process.
      (4)   An applicant has been convicted of a violation of a provision of
this chapter within two years immediately preceding the filing of the
application. The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect.
      (5)   The premises to be used for the sexually-oriented business have
been disapproved by the County Health Department, Fire Department, or the
Building Official.
      (6)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid.
      (7)   An applicant or the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with any applicable section of this chapter.
      (8)   The proposed business is otherwise prohibited by law.
(Ord. 99-006, passed 6-15-99)
§ 119.23  FEES.
   (A)   Every person who engages in operating an adult entertainment
establishment as defined herein shall in lieu of the regular occupational
license fee charged by the city pay an annual license tax of $5,000 per year
effective the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1999, which fee is due by July 31,
1999 and thereafter due on such date as the city’s Occupational Ordinance
requires. Every person who engages in employment, contractually or otherwise,
as an independent contractor in an adult entertainment establishment as defined
herein, shall pay the regular occupational license fee charged by the city.
Such licenses shall be valid upon issuance of same and shall not be
transferable to any other person during the period of the license and said tax
charged to offset the city’s expenses in exercising its police and regulatory
powers involving adult entertainment.
   (B)   The license fees shall be charged for each license application filed
and shall be paid at the time the application and diagram are submitted for
processing.
(Ord. 99-006, passed 6-15-99)
§ 119.25  POSTING OF LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, operate, conduct, or cause to be
operated or conducted a sexually-oriented business within the territorial
limits of the city, unless the license required by this chapter is posted at or
near the principal public entrance to the business in such a manner that it
will be conspicuous to patrons who enter the premises.
(Ord. 99-006, passed 6-15-99)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 119.25  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be an offense for any person to interfere with a lawful
inspection of the premises by a representative of any law enforcement agency,
County Health Department, Fire Department, the Building Official or the City
Clerk at any time it is occupied or open for business.
   (B)   By accepting a license to operate a sexually-oriented business, the
holder consents that a peace officer, fire marshall, building official or
health inspector may enter the licensed premises at any time such premises are
open for business to conduct an inspection or investigation for the purpose of
evaluating compliance with this chapter.
      (1)   In conducting inspections as provided herein, officers shall limit
their investigations to detecting violations of the regulatory provisions of
this chapter and the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
      (2)   This subdivision does not in any way limit the authority of an
officer to conduct any search authorized by a warrant, or pursuant to any
exception to the warrant requirement.
(Ord. 99-006, passed 6-15-99)
§ 119.26  EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may
be renewed only by making application as provided in the §
119.21 herein. Applications for renewal should be made at least 30 days before
the expiration date, and when made less than 30 days before the expiration date
the expiration of the license will not be affected.
   (B)   When the City Clerk denies renewal of a license for false or
misleading information, the applicant shall not be issued a license for one
year from the date of denial. If the applicant has been convicted of a
violation of this chapter, the applicant shall not be issued a license for two
years from the date of conviction. If any other basis of denial for renewal of
license has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if
at least 90 days have elapsed since the date the denial became final and the
applicant is otherwise entitled to receive a license under §
119.22 hereof.
(Ord. 99-006, passed 6-15-99)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 119.27  SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall suspend a license for a period not to exceed 60
days if he/she determines that the licensee or an employee of a licensee has,
subsequent to the issuance of the license:
      (1)   Violated any provision of this chapter;
      (2)   Been charged with a violation of any statute, ordinance, or other
law pertaining to the possession, use, or consumption of alcoholic beverages or
any other controlled substance while on the business premises during business
hours;
      (3)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually-oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter;
      (4)   Altered the activities or character of the business such that the
business offers, provides, displays or exhibits goods, services or
entertainment not offered, provided, displayed or exhibited at the time the
license was issued, and not otherwise authorized by the license;
      (5)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the sexually-oriented
business in a peaceful and law-abiding manner thus necessitating action by law
enforcement officers.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, conduct, or cause to
be operated or conducted a sexually-oriented business within the territorial
limits of the city during any period of time when the license authorizing such
operation has been suspended.
(Ord. 99-006, passed 6-15-99)
§ 119.28  REVOCATION.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall revoke a license if he/she determines that:
      (1)   A cause of suspension under §
119.27 herein, occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding
12 months;
      (2)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted to the City Clerk during the application process;
      (3)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed the unlawful
possession, use, or sale of alcoholic beverages or controlled substances on the
premises;
      (4)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the
premises;
      (5)   A licensee or an employee knowingly operated the sexually-oriented
business during a period of time when the license was suspended;
      (6)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, or sexual contact to occur
in or on the licensed premises at any time the business is open to the public.
The term SEXUAL CONTACT shall have the meaning set forth in KRS 510.010(7);
      (7)   A licensee is delinquent in payment of any taxes, fees, utilities,
fines, assessments or interest to the city, or penalties assessed against the
applicant or imposed upon the applicant in relation to a sexually-oriented
business;
      (8)   A licensee has attempted to assign, transfer, or divide a license
to operate a sexually-oriented business issued under this chapter; or
      (9)   A licensee or employee commits an offense under §
119.25 herein.
   (B)   When the City Clerk revokes a license, the revocation shall continue
for one year and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually-oriented business
license for one year from the date revocation became effective. If, subsequent
to revocation, the City Clerk finds that the basis for the revocation has been
corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if six months have
elapsed since the date the revocation became effective.
(Ord. 99-006, passed 6-15-99)
§ 119.29  APPEAL.
   If the City Clerk denies the issuance of a license, or suspends or revokes a
license, he/she shall send to the applicant or licensee, at the address of the
business as shown on the most recent application,  by certified mail,  return
receipt requested, written notice of such action and the right of appeal. All
appeals of the ordinance shall be submitted to the City Council.  The filing of
an appeal stays the action of the City Clerk in suspending or revoking a
license until the Zoning Board of Adjustment makes a final decision.
(Ord. 99-006, passed 6-15-99)
§ 119.30  TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A sexually-oriented business license is not transferable, assignable or
divisible. Any attempt or purported transfer, assignment or division shall be
void.
(Ord. 99-006, passed 6-15-99)
ADDITIONAL APPLICABLE REGULATIONS
§ 119.40  MINORS.
   (A)   Sexually-oriented businesses shall not employ any person under the age
of 18 years.
   (B)   It shall be an offense for any person to knowingly allow a person
under the age of 18 years to appear in a state of nudity or partial nudity in
or on the premises of a sexually-oriented business. It is a defense to
prosecution under this division if the defendant was in a restroom not open to
public view or person(s) of the opposite sex.
   (C)   It shall be an offense for a person under the age of 18 years to act
as an escort. It shall be an offense for a person to act as an escort or agree
to act as an escort for any person under the age of 18 years. The term escort
is used as defined in this chapter.
(Ord. 99-006, passed 6-15-99)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 119.41  VISIBILITY FROM OUTSIDE PREMISES.
   It shall be an offense for a person to appear in a state of nudity or
partial nudity or to allow another to appear in a state of nudity or partial
nudity in an area of a sexually-oriented business which can be viewed from
outside of the licensed premises.
(Ord. 99-006, passed 6-15-99)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 119.42  ALTERATION OF INTERIOR.
   No alteration after licensing shall be made to the interior configuration of
a sexually-oriented business nor shall the business alter or relocate a
manger’s station without prior approval of the City Clerk, subject to
compliance with the Kentucky Building Code.
(Ord. 99-006, passed 6-15-99)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 119.43  OCCUPATION OF MANAGEMENT STATIONS.
   At least one owner, operator or employee must be situated in each station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises. A licensee commits an
offense if patrons are inside the premises and the manager’s station is not
occupied by an owner, operator, or employee. This section shall not apply to
adult motels.
(Ord. 99-006, passed 6-15-99)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 119.44  FURNISHINGS RESTRICTED.
   A sexually-oriented business shall not place or permit a bed, sofa, or
mattress in any room on the premises to which members of the public have
access, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception room open to the
public.
(Ord. 99-006, passed 6-15-99)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 119.45  DISPLAY OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATERIAL TO MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be an offense for a person, in a business establishment open
to persons under the age of 18 years, to display any graphic or visual
representation of material which depicts, in a manner calculated to arouse
sexual lust or passion for commercial gain or to exploit sexual lust or
perversion for commercial gain, any of the following:
      (1)   Human sexual intercourse, masturbation, or sodomy;
      (2)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, buttocks, or
female breasts;
      (3)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genital, buttocks,
or that portion of the female breasts below the top of the areola; or
      (4)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, whether covered
or uncovered.
   (B)   In this section DISPLAY means to locate an item in such a manner that,
without obtaining assistance from an employee of the business establishment:
      (1)   It is available to the general public for handling and inspection;
or
      (2)   The cover or outside packaging on the item is visible to members of
the general public.
(Ord. 99-006, passed 6-15-99)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 119.46  LOCATION.
   (A)   It is an offense for any person to operate or cause to be operated a
sexually-oriented business within 750 feet of:
      (1)   A church; or place of religious worship;
      (2)   Day care facility;
      (3)   School;
      (4)   Hospital;
      (5)   Public building;
      (6)   Public park;
      (7)   Residentially zoned property.
   (B)   It shall be an offense for any person to cause or permit the
operation, establishment, substantial enlargement, or transfer of ownership or
control of a sexually-oriented business within 750 feet of another sexually
oriented business.
   (C)   It shall be an offense for any person to cause or permit the
operation, establishment or maintenance of more than one sexually-oriented
business in the same building, structure, or portion thereof containing another
sexually oriented business.
   (D)   For the purposes of division (A) of this section, measurement shall be
made in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects,
from the nearest portion of the building or structure used as a part of the
premises where a sexually-oriented business is conducted, to the nearest
property line of the premises of a church; or place of religious worship, dare
care facility, school, hospital, public building or public park, or
residentially zoned property.
   (E)   For the purposes of division (B) of this section, the distance between
any two sexually-oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line
without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the closest exterior
wall of the structure in which each business is located.
   (F)   All sexually-oriented businesses must be located and operated in a C-
2 zone (General Business District) unless the business qualifies to, the non-
conforming use mentioned in division (G). Operation of such businesses in any
other zone is prohibited.
   (G)   Any sexually-oriented business lawfully operating on the effective
date of this chapter that is in violation of divisions (A), (B), or (C) of this
section shall be deemed a non-conforming use.
      (1)   Such non-conforming uses shall not be increased, enlarged, extended
or altered except that the use may be changed to a conforming use.
      (2)   If two or more sexually-oriented businesses are within 750 feet of
one another and otherwise in a permissible location, the sexually-oriented
business which was first established and continually operating at a particular
location is the conforming use and the later established business is non-
conforming.
      (3)   A sexually-oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use
is not rendered a non-conforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant
or renewal of the sexually-oriented business license, of a church or place, of
religious worship, day care facility, school, hospital, public building or
public park, residentially zoned property within 750 feet of the sexually-
oriented business.
(Ord. 99-006, passed 6-15-99)  Penalty, see §
115.99
ENFORCEMENT
§ 119.55  CIVIL REMEDIES.
   In addition to any other remedies which may be available at law or inequity,
the city may sue in the appropriate district court for an injunction to
prohibit the violation of, or enforce compliance with, any regulation contained
in this chapter.
(Ord. 99-006, passed 6-15-99)
§ 119.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating §§
119.40 through
119.45 of this chapter may be prosecuted under either this chapter or the
Kentucky Penal Code. Upon conviction under this chapter, violations are
punishable by a fine not to exceed $2,000 per day per violation.
   (B)   If the sexually-oriented business involved displays any type of nude
or partial nude modeling activity, or if it is a sexual encounter center, then
violation of §
119.26 or §§
119.40 through
119.44 of this chapter is punishable as a Class B misdemeanor.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided herein, by any person violating a
provision of this chapter is punishable upon conviction by a fine not to exceed
$500 as a Class B misdemeanor.
   (D)   Each calendar day during which a person is in violation of any
provision of this chapter shall constitute a separate violation of that
provision.
(Ord. 99-006, passed 6-15-99)
CHAPTER 120:  OFF-SITE SALES FOR AUTOMOBILE DEALERS
Section
   
120.01   Off-site sales
§ 120.01  OFF-SITE SALES.
   Each automobile dealer with its principal offices and business in
Paintsville, Kentucky and being licensed to do business within the city may
hold off-site sales pursuant to KRS 190.030, provided that, prior to any off-
site sale, the required approval is obtained from the Commonwealth of Kentucky,
Motor Vehicle Commission in accordance with Title 605 Kentucky Administrative
Regulations § 1:060 (605  KAR 1:060), and all other applicable law.
(Ord. 2008-006, passed 6-10-08)
CHAPTER 121:  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
121.001   Title
   
121.002   Incorporation of state law; definitions; and compliance required
   
121.003   Scope of coverage
   
121.004   Deposit of fees, fines to general funds
   
121.005   Notice to state ABC Board of fees levied
Administration
   
121.020   Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
   
121.021   Functions, duties and powers
   
121.022   Right of inspection
   
121.023   Appeals from City ABC Administrator
   
121.024   Oath and bond of local ABC Administrator employees
Licensing Regulations
   
121.035   Number and type of licenses
   
121.036   License required for sale
   
121.037   Types of licenses; fees
   
121.038   Licenses permitted
   
121.039   Regulations to conform to state law
   
121.040   License term; renewals; and when license fee due
   
121.041   Prorated license fee
   
121.042   Refunds prohibited
   
121.043   Assignment, transfer or license replacement
   
121.044   Posting of license
   
121.045   Wholesale distributors
Application Process and Issuance of Licenses
   
121.060   Application for state license
   
121.061   Local administrator to approve application
   
121.062   Applicant’s consent to inspection, search and regulatory action
   
121.063   Causes for refusal to issue or renew license, or suspension or
revocation of license
   
121.064   Approval or denial of application or renewal
   
121.065   Issuance of city license
   
121.066   Posting of licenses
   
121.067   Persons who may not receive a license
Prohibitions, Restrictions and General Regulations
   
121.080   Hours of sale
   
121.081   Advertising restrictions
   
121.082   License to become void if business dormant
   
121.083   Licensee to display warning to minors
   
121.084   Accounting requirement
   
121.085   Licensee to obtain copy of ordinance
   
121.086   Inspections
   
121.087   Mandatory responsible beverage service training
Conduct, Location, Premises and Structure Requirements
   
121.100   Conduct requirement
   
121.101   Zoning restrictions; location, premises and structure requirements
Regulatory License Fee
   
121.115   Imposition of regulatory license fee
   
121.116   Regulatory license fee percentage rate; deposit of fees
   
121.117   Payment of regulatory license fee
 
   
121.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 121.001  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Alcoholic Beverage
Control Chapter of the City of Paintsville, Kentucky, or the “Paintsville
Alcoholic Beverage Control Chapter”.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)
§ 121.002  INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW; DEFINITIONS; AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this chapter, unless the context clearly
indicates a different meaning and specifies the language of a particular
definition which shall apply, the words and terms as defined in KRS 241.010
shall apply.
   (B)   The provisions of the Kentucky Alcoholic Beverage Control Laws
contained in KRS Chs. 241, 242, 243, and 244, pertaining to licenses and
regulations of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board, including
definitions contained therein, as well as amendments and supplements thereto,
are hereby adopted as part of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Law of the City of
Paintsville, except as otherwise lawfully provided herein.  As used herein
“state” means the Commonwealth of Kentucky, and “city” means the City of
Paintsville, Kentucky.
   (C)   Any violation of state law relating to the sale, production, storing,
or otherwise trafficking in alcoholic beverages shall also constitute a
violation of this chapter.
   (D)   No person shall sell, deal in, barter or exchange or possess for sale,
or for the purpose of evading any law or ordinance, give away any alcoholic
beverage in any quantity whatever, or cause the same to be done, without
complying with all of the provisions of this chapter and all state statutes and
regulations applicable thereto.
   (E)   All prohibitions, restrictions and regulations pertaining to alcoholic
beverages contained in KRS Ch. 244 shall apply to alcoholic beverage use in the
city.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)
§ 121.003  SCOPE OF COVERAGE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be construed to apply to the trafficking in all
forms of “alcoholic beverages” as that term is defined at KRS 241.010(2),
including malt beverages, distilled spirits, and wine where the context permits
such applications.  Unless the context otherwise expressly states or requires,
the term “alcoholic beverage” or “alcoholic beverages” shall have the same
meaning as defined at KRS 241.010(2) and shall include distilled spirits, wine,
and malt beverages.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall excuse or relieve the owner,
proprietor, employee or person in charge of any licensed premises in the city
where alcoholic beverages are sold from the restrictions, requirements and
penalties of any other ordinance of the city or of any state and/or federal
statutes or regulations.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)
§ 121.004  DEPOSIT OF FEES, FINES TO GENERAL FUNDS.
   All monies derived from annual license fees or from fines, as provided in
this chapter, shall be paid to the treasury of the city and become a part of
the general funds of the city.  Regulatory license fees imposed under §§
121.115 et seq. of this chapter shall be deposited in accordance with the
provisions of §§
121.115 et seq. of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09; Am. Ord. 2014-004, passed 8-12-14)
§ 121.005  NOTICE TO STATE ABC BOARD OF FEES LEVIED.
   This chapter is and shall be subject to the provisions of KRS 243.610.  The
City Clerk shall give notice to the State Alcoholic Beverage Board of any fees
or assessments fixed and/or levied under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 121.020  ALCOHOL BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR.
   Pursuant to KRS 241.160, the duties of the office of the City Alcoholic
Beverage Control Administrator (“City ABC Administrator”) as hereinafter
established in this chapter shall be assigned to the office of the Mayor.  The
Mayor shall have the power and authority to designate and appoint individuals
as Deputy Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrators (“Deputy ABC
Administrators”), to assist in the responsibilities of the office of the City
ABC Administrator.  The City ABC Administrator shall have the power and
authority to promulgate such regulations as may be necessary to implement this
chapter, pursuant to KRS 241.190 and KRS 241.060.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)
§ 121.021  FUNCTIONS, DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   The functions of the City ABC Administrator shall be the same with
respect to the city’s alcohol licenses and regulations as the functions of the
Kentucky Alcoholic Beverage Control Board (the “State Board”) with respect to
state alcohol licenses and regulations, as provided in KRS 241.190, except that
no regulations of the City ABC Administrator shall be less stringent than the
statutes relating to alcoholic beverage control or the regulations of the State
Board.
   (B)   The City ABC Administrator shall have the same powers and duties with
respect to suspension and revocation for cause of alcohol licenses issued by
the city as the State Board has with respect to alcohol licenses issued by the
state under KRS 241.060.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)
§ 121.022  RIGHT OF INSPECTION.
   The City ABC Administrator, his or her designees/appointees and/or city law
enforcement officers shall have available at all reasonable times for their
inspection, all books and records required to be maintained by licensees
pursuant to KRS 244.150 and all other applicable state laws and regulations.
Further, the City ABC Administrator shall simultaneously receive copies of all
reports submitted by licensees to the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)
§ 121.023  APPEALS FROM CITY ABC ADMINISTRATOR.
   Appeals from any order of the City ABC Administrator may be taken to the
State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board by filing with the Board, within 30
days, a certified copy of the order of the City ABC Administrator from which
the appeal is taken.  Matters at issue shall be heard by the Board as upon an
original proceeding, and the appeal shall be governed in accordance with KRS
241.200, KRS 243.550, and all other applicable state law.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)
§ 121.024  OATH AND BOND OF LOCAL ABC ADMINISTRATOR EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Each City ABC Administrator, before entering upon his or her duties as
such, shall take the oath prescribed in § 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, and shall execute a bond with a good corporate surety
in the penal sum of not less than $1,000.
   (B)   Each City ABC Administrator may require any city employee under his or
her supervision to execute a similar bond in such penal sum as he or she deems
necessary.
   (C)   The cost of bonds given under this section shall be borne by the city,
in accordance with KRS 241.180.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)
LICENSING REGULATIONS
§ 121.035  NUMBER AND TYPE OF LICENSES.
   The number and type of licenses for the manufacturing and/or trafficking in
alcoholic beverages issued in the city shall not exceed the number and type of
licenses as provided for and established under Kentucky Revised Statutes and
all Kentucky Administrative Regulations promulgated pursuant thereto, as may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)
§ 121.036  LICENSE REQUIRED FOR SALE.
   No person shall, within the city, sell or dispense at retail, or have in his
or her possession for sale, nor manufacture or transport within the city for
sale, any alcoholic beverages, unless he or she shall first procure and have
issued to him or her the appropriate license issued under the provisions of
this chapter, all state statutes and all administrative regulations adopted
pursuant thereto.  Any revocation, suspension, non-renewal or other action
which obviates any license for the sale of alcoholic beverages issued by the
state shall also operate to invalidate and make null and void the corresponding
license issued pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)
§ 121.037  TYPES OF LICENSES; FEES.
   (A)   General provision declaring economic hardship pursuant to KRS
243.072.  Pursuant to KRS 243.072, the City Council has made, and hereby
expresses, its determination that an economic hardship exists within the city,
and that the sale of alcoholic beverages by the drink within the city can aid
economic growth.  Based upon this determination by the City Council, this
section is adopted as a comprehensive means to regulate the safe of alcoholic
beverages by the drink for consumption on the premises where sold, in
accordance with the applicable provisions of state law.
   (B)   Types of licenses and required license fees.  The city shall have the
power and authority to issue the following types of licenses for the sale,
manufacture and/or trafficking in alcoholic beverages, upon proper application
and payment of the below prescribed annual fees.  All license fees indicated
are on a per annum basis, unless otherwise expressly indicated.
      (1)   Quota retail package license.
         (a)   Annual license fee:  $630.
         (b)   This license shall authorize the licensee to sell distilled
spirits and wine at retail by the package from the licensed premises only for
consumption off the licensed premises only.
         (c)   The holder of quota retail package license may also obtain a
nonquota retail malt beverage package license.
      (2)   Nonquota retail malt beverage package license (“NQ retail malt
beverage package license”).
         (a)   Annual license fee:  $200.
         (b)   This license shall authorize the licensee to sell malt beverages
at retail by the package from the licensed premises only for consumption off
the licensed premises only.
         (c)   The holder of a nonquota retail malt beverage package license
may also obtain a quota retail package license.
      (3)   Nonquota type 4 retail malt beverage drink license (“NQ-4 retail
malt beverage drink license”).
         (a)   Annual license fee:  $200.
         (b)   This license shall authorize the licensee to sell malt beverages
at retail by the drink from only the licensed premises for consumption at the
licensed premises only.
         (c)   The holder of an NQ-4 retail malt beverage drink license may
also hold a nonquota retail malt beverage package license.
      (4)   Nonquota type 2 retail drink license (“NQ-2 retail drink license”).
         (a)   Annual license fee:  $630.
         (b)   A “nonquota type 2” or “NQ-2” retail drink license may be issued
to:
            (1)   A hotel that:
               a.   Contains at least 50 sleeping units;
               b.   Contains dining facilities for at least 50 persons; and
               c.   Receives from its total food and beverage sales at least
50% of its gross receipts from the sale of food;
            (2)   A restaurant with a minimum seating for 50 consumers at
tables.
         (c)   A qualifying hotel or restaurant holding an NQ-2 retail drink
license may purchase, receive, possess and sell distilled spirits, wine and
malt beverages at retail by the drink for consumption on the licensed premises.
         (d)    The term “restaurant” as used in this section shall have the
same meaning as currently provided at KRS 241.010(44), to wit: “a facility
where the usual and customary business is the serving of meals to consumers,
that has a bona fide kitchen facility, and that receives at least fifty per
cent (50%) of its food and beverage receipts from the sale of food”.
         (e)    The term “hotel” as used in this section shall have the same
meaning as currently provided at KRS 241.010(29), to wit: “a hotel, motel, or
inn for accommodation of the traveling public, designed primarily to serve
transient patrons”.
         (f)    An NQ-2 retail drink license shall not authorize the licensee
to sell distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages by the package.
         (g)    The holder of an NQ-2 retail drink license shall comply with
the requirements of KRS 243.250.
         (h)   The holder of an NQ-2 retail drink license shall purchase
distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages only from licensed wholesalers or
distributors.
         (i)   An NQ-2 retail drink license shall not be issued to any
restaurant or any dining facility in a hotel, unless the applicant can
demonstrate to the City ABC Administrator that gross receipts of the restaurant
or the dining facility from the sale of food for consumption on the premises is
reasonably estimated to be not less than 50% of the total food and alcoholic
beverage receipts of the restaurant or dining facility for the license period.
      (5)   Nonquota type 3 retail drink license (“NQ-3 retail drink license”).
         (a)   Annual license fee:  $300.
         (b)   A “nonquota type 3” or “NQ-3” retail drink license may be issued
to:
            (1)   A private club in existence for longer than one year prior to
the license application; or
            (2)   A dining car.
         (c)   An NQ-3 retail drink license issued to a private club shall
authorize the licensee to exercise the privileges of an NQ-2 retail drink
licensee at the designated premises, if the general public is excluded.
         (d)   An NQ-3 retail drink license issued to a dining car shall
authorize the licensee to exercise the privileges of an NQ-2 retail drink
licensee, and shall also authorize the licensee to sell distilled spirits and
wine by the package, only on the designated dining car identified in the NQ-
3 license.
         (e)    The term “private club” as used in this section shall have the
same meaning as currently provided at KRS 241.010(39), to wit: “a nonprofit
social,  fraternal,  military,  or  political  organization,  club,  or entity
maintaining or operating a club room, club rooms, or premises from which the
general public is excluded”.
         (f)    The term “dining car” as used in this section shall have the
same meaning as currently provided at KRS 241.010(20), to wit: “a railroad
passenger car that serves meals to consumers on any railroad or Pullman car
company”.
         (g)    In order to assure that the general public is excluded from the
designated premises of a private club NQ-3 retail drink licensee, the following
guidelines must be met:
            1.   Each private club member shall be issued a membership card
that can be readily produced while visiting the club;
            2.   Each private club member shall be limited to no more than two
non-member guests at any club function or event; and
            3.   A written log shall be maintained of all non-member guests.
      (6)   Limited golf course license.
         (a)   Annual license fee:  $630.
         (b)   A limited golf course license may be issued to an establishment
that is a nine- or an 18-hole golf course that meets United States Golf
Association criteria and is located within the city limits.
         (c)   A limited golf course license shall authorize the licensee to
purchase, receive, possess, and sell distilled spirits, wine, and malt
beverages at retail by the drink for consumption on the licensed premises.  The
license shall not authorize the licensee to sell distilled spirits, wine, and
malt beverages by the package.
      (7)   Caterer’s license.
         (a)   Annual license fee:  $800.
         (b)   A caterer’s license may be issued as a supplementary license to
a caterer who holds a quota retail package license or an NQ-2 retail drink
license.
         (c)   A caterer’s license may be issued as a primary license for the
premises that serves as the caterer’s commissary and designated banquet hall. 
No primary caterer’s license shall be issued to a premises that operates as a
restaurant.  The alcoholic beverage stock of the caterer shall be kept under
lock and key at the licensed premises during the time that the alcoholic
beverages are not being used in conjunction with a catered function.
         (d)   The caterer’s license shall authorize the caterer to:
            1.   Transport, sell, serve, and deliver malt beverages by the
drink at locations away from the licensed premises, or at the caterer's
designated banquet hall, in conjunction with the catering of food and malt
beverages for a customer and his or her guests, in:
               a.    The city limits and all other wet territory, if the
receipts from the catering of food at any catered event are at least 35% of the
gross receipts from the catering of both food and malt beverages; or
               b.   Cities and counties established as moist territory under
KRS 242.1244, if the receipts from the catering of food at any catered event
are at least 70% of the gross receipts from the catering of both food and malt
beverages.
            2.   Transport, sell, serve, and deliver distilled spirits and wine
by the drink at locations away from the licensed premises, or at the caterer's
designated banquet hall, in conjunction with the catering of food and alcoholic
beverages for a customer and his or her guests, in:
                  a.   The city and/or any other cities of the fourth class and
counties containing cities of the fourth class established as wet or moist
territory permitting distilled spirits and wine drink sales by ordinance under
KRS 243.072, if the receipts from the catering of food at any catered event are
at least 50% of the gross receipts from the catering of both food and alcoholic
beverages;
                  b.   Cities and counties established as moist territory under
KRS 242.1244, if the receipts from the catering of food at any catered event
are at least 70% of the gross receipts from the catering of both food and
alcoholic beverages; or
                  c.   All other wet territory in which the sale of distilled
spirits and wine by the drink is authorized, if the receipts from the catering
of food at any catered event are at least 35% of the gross receipts from the
catering of both food and alcoholic beverages.
            3.   Receive and fill telephone orders for alcoholic beverages in
conjunction with the ordering of food for a catered event; and
            4.   Receive payment for alcoholic beverages served at a catered
event on a by-the-drink or by-the-event basis.  The caterer may bill the host
for by-the-function sales of alcoholic beverages in the usual course of the
caterer’s business.
         (e)    A caterer licensee shall not cater alcoholic beverages at
locations for which retail alcoholic beverage licenses or special temporary
licenses have been issued.  A caterer licensee may cater a fund-raising event
for which a special temporary distilled spirits and wine auction license has
been issued under KRS 243.036.
         (f)    The caterer licensee shall post a copy of his or her caterer’s
license at the location of the function for which alcoholic beverages are
catered.
         (g)    The name and license number of the caterer shall be painted or
securely attached, in a contrasting color, in a form prescribed by the State
Alcoholic Beverage Control Board by promulgation of an administrative
regulation, upon all vehicles used by the caterer to transport alcoholic
beverages.
         (h)   All restrictions and prohibitions applying to a distilled
spirits and wine quota retail drink licensee not inconsistent with this section
shall apply to the caterer licensee.
         (i)   The caterer licensee shall maintain records as set forth in KRS
244.150 and in administrative regulations promulgated by the State Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board.
         (j)   The caterer licensee shall submit a list of functions catered or
to be catered, including location, host, date and time, upon request of the
local ABC administrator.
      (8)   Special temporary license.
         (a)   License fee shall be $166.66 per event.
         (b)   A special temporary license may be issued to any regularly
organized fair, exposition, racing association, or any other party, for the
sale, service and delivery of wine and/or malt beverages by-the-drink for
consumption at any approved and licensed special temporary event, such as
fairs, sporting events, entertainment events or other public events as
specifically approved by the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.  The
special temporary license issued pursuant to this division shall be issued for
a specified and limited time, not to exceed 30 days, and shall expire when the
qualifying event ends.
         (c)   A nonprofit organization holding an NQ-4 retail malt beverage
drink license may be issued a special temporary license to sell wine by the
drink on the licensed premises for a specified and limited time, not to exceed
ten days.  The special temporary license issued under this division may be
issued in conjunction with any public or private event, including but not
limited to, weddings, receptions, reunions, or similar occasions, as
specifically approved by the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.
      (9)   Wholesaler’s distilled spirits and wine license.
         (a)   Annual license fee:  $3,000.
         (b)   This license authorizes the licensed wholesaler to purchase,
receive, store and possess distilled spirits and wine to sell at wholesale,
from the licensed premises only, and to transport from the licensed premises
for himself or herself only any alcoholic beverage that the wholesaler’s
license authorizes the licensee to sell, in accordance with Kentucky state law.
      (10)   Malt beverage distributor’s license.
         (a)   Annual license fee:  $400.
         (b)   This license shall authorize the licensee to purchase, import,
store, sell and otherwise distribute malt beverages, in accordance with
applicable Kentucky state law.
      (11)   Distiller’s license.
         (a)   Annual license fee:  $500.
         (b)   This license shall authorize the licensee to engage in the
business of a distiller at the premises specifically designated in the license,
and to maintain warehouses, and to transport for himself or herself only any
alcoholic beverage that he or she is authorized under the license to
manufacture or sell, in accordance with applicable Kentucky state law.
      (12)   Rectifier’s license.
         (a)   Annual license fee: $3,000.
         (b)   This license shall authorize the licensee to engage in the
business of a rectifier at the premises specifically designated in the license,
and to maintain warehouses, and to transport for himself or herself only any
alcoholic beverage that he or she is authorized under the license to
manufacture or sell, in accordance with applicable Kentucky state law.
      (13)   Brewer’s license.
         (a)   Annual license fee:  $500.
         (b)   This license shall authorize the licensee to engage in the
business of a brewer at the premises specifically designated in the license,
and to transport for himself or herself only any malt beverages that he or she
is authorized by his or her license to manufacture or sell, but he or she shall
transport any malt beverages in accordance with the requirements provided by
KRS 243.120 for distillers, all in accordance with the provisions of applicable
Kentucky state law.
      (14)   Microbrewery license.
         (a)   Annual license fee:  $500.
         (b)   This license shall authorize the licensee to perform all
functions and engage in all activities specifically permitted for a
microbrewery in accordance with applicable Kentucky state law.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09; Am. Ord. 2013-003, passed 12-2-13; Am. Ord.
2014-004, passed 8-12-14; Am. Ord. 2017-006, passed 6-14-17)
§ 121.038  LICENSES PERMITTED.
   In accordance with KRS 243.072(4), the city shall have the power and
authority to issue any license for the manufacturing, trafficking and sale of
alcoholic beverages permitted by KRS 243.070, or the issuance of any other
reasonable administrative regulations as may be necessary for the enforcement
or administration of applicable state statutes and regulations and/or city
ordinances.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09; Am. Ord. 2013-003, passed 12-2-13)
§ 121.039  REGULATIONS TO CONFORM TO STATE LAW.
   All regulations which may be issued to administer KRS 243.072, this section
of the Paintsville Alcoholic Beverage Control Chapter, and/or any other
provision of state law or city ordinance shall conform to the requirements of
KRS 241.190.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09; Am. Ord. 2013-003, passed 12-2-13)
§ 121.040  LICENSE TERM; RENEWALS; AND WHEN LICENSE FEE DUE.
   (A)   All required fees, as indicated above, for any form of alcoholic
beverage license shall be due upon submission of any original application or
application for renewal.  The license applicant shall submit all required fees
along with the application forms required for issuance of any alcoholic
beverage license under this chapter.  The required fee shall be paid by cash,
certified check, or postal or express money order.
   (B)   All fees required to be paid upon submission of any original
application or application for renewal of alcoholic beverage licenses under
this chapter shall be held on deposit by the city, pending state license
approval and issuance of the required state license.  In the event that any
requested state license is not issued for any reason, the applicant must submit
a written request for a refund of all license fees paid in relation to the
requested licenses not issued.  The applicant’s written request for refund must
be submitted to the City ABC Administrator.  Upon proper written request, the
city will refund the license fees submitted by the applicant for any license(s)
not issued, but the city will retain $50 per license fee paid for processing
costs.  In the event that any license fee submitted is $50 or less, there will
be no refund from the city as the entire amount will be retained for processing
costs.
   (C)   All alcoholic beverage licenses issued under this chapter shall expire
on April 30 of each year.  All renewal applications shall be submitted six
weeks prior to the annual expiration date, and license renewal fees shall be
due and payable on May 1 of each year.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09; Am. Ord. 2013-003, passed 12-2-13)
§ 121.041  PRORATED LICENSE FEE.
   When any applicant makes application for a new license authorized to be
issued under this chapter, he or she shall be charged the full fee for the
respective license if six months or more remain before the license is due to be
renewed, and one-half the fee if less than six months remain before the license
is due to be renewed.  No abatement of license fee shall be permitted to any
person who held a license of the same kind for the same premises in the
preceding license period and who was actually doing business under the license
during the last month of the preceding license period.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)
§ 121.042  REFUNDS PROHIBITED.
   In the event any licensee shall cease doing business for any reason, no
refund of any license fee required hereunder shall be granted.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)
§ 121.043  ASSIGNMENT, TRANSFER OR LICENSE REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   The assignment, transfer or other form of acquisition of an interest
in an alcoholic beverage license of whatsoever nature shall be governed by the
provisions of KRS 243.630, 243.640, 243.650, 243.660 and all other applicable
state law.  An approval by the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board of any
proposed assignment, transfer or other acquisition of interest in a duly issued
alcoholic beverage license shall be deemed an approval by the city, and non-
approval by the state shall be deemed as non-approval by the city.  No city
alcoholic beverage license may be sold, assigned or otherwise transferred
unless the proposed transfer has first been approved by the State Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board pursuant to applicable state law.  A transfer fee of $25
shall be paid to the city upon any permitted assignment or transfer of an
alcoholic beverage license.
   (B)   In the event that an alcoholic beverage license has been lost or
destroyed, the local ABC Administrator may issue a duplicate or replacement
license upon payment of a fee of $25.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)
§ 121.044  POSTING OF LICENSE.
   Each license issued by the city pursuant to this chapter shall be posted at
the licensed premises in the same manner as prescribed by KRS 243.620 for state
licenses.  An exact duplicate or facsimile of each license issued by the city
under this chapter shall remain in the local ABC Administrator’s office as part
of the public record.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)
§ 121.045  WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS.
   Every wholesale distributor of alcoholic beverages who sells or conducts
business within the city shall report to the City ABC Administrator on a form
to be provided by the city, the following information:
   (A)   The names of all retailers to whom alcoholic beverages were sold in
the preceding quarter; and
   (B)   The gross revenues received by the wholesaler or distributor from each
retailer.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)
APPLICATION PROCESS AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSES
§ 121.060  APPLICATION FOR STATE LICENSE.
   All applicants for alcoholic beverage licenses available pursuant to this
chapter must submit the appropriate application for issuance of a state license
as stipulated in KRS 243.380 and all other applicable state law.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)
§ 121.061  LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR TO APPROVE APPLICATION.
   Pursuant to applicable state law, an applicant for an alcoholic beverage
license must first have his or her state license application approved by the
City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator before the applicant is eligible
to apply for a state license.  An applicant for a license under this chapter
shall file with the City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator a copy of the
state license application as required by the state, along with any city license
application that may be required.  The city license application shall be in a
form prescribed by the City ABC Administrator and the application forms shall
be made available to interested applicants through the Office of the City
Clerk.  The city license application shall be properly subscribed and sworn to
before a notary public or other officer authorized to administer an oath and
shall include an identification of the premises where alcoholic beverages are
to be sold, either by way of the street number or otherwise, along with the
name of the owner of the premises, and shall be accompanied by a certified copy
of the deed or lease agreement through which the applicant holds possessory
interest in the premises, in addition to any other information required on the
application form as may be prescribed the City ABC Administrator.  In the event
that the applicant is a corporation or a limited liability company, the
applicant shall provide personal information as may be required on the
application form (by way of example, name, age, date of birth, social security
number, address, and the like) of each shareholder, officer and/or director of
the corporation and/or member of the limited liability company, whichever
applies.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)
§ 121.062  APPLICANT’S CONSENT TO INSPECTION, SEARCH AND REGULATORY ACTION.
   The city license application shall include the acknowledged consent of each
and every applicant to permit the City ABC Administrator and his designees to
inspect and search the licensed premises at any reasonable time, to confiscate
articles found on the premises in violation of any ordinance or statute, to
order an emergency temporary closure of the premises if the public health,
safety, morals and/or welfare is threatened by one or more violation of any
ordinance or statute involving disturbance of the peace or public disorder.  A
temporary closure of the licensed premises is permitted hereunder and shall
remain in effect until review of the alleged violations by the City ABC
Administrator which shall be completed within 36 hours after the order of
temporary closure becomes effective.  Upon expiration of the 36-hour period of
temporary closure, the City ABC Administrator shall either suspend or revoke
the license pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, in the event that
sufficient grounds for suspension or revocation are found, or else vacate the
order of temporary closure.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)
§ 121.063  CAUSES FOR REFUSAL TO ISSUE OR RENEW LICENSE, OR SUSPENSION OR
REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   State law references.  Causes for refusal to issue or renew a city
license or for suspension or revocation of a city license shall be the same as
provided for state licenses pursuant to KRS 243.450, 243.490, and 243.500.
   (B)   Violation of city ordinances.  In addition to the above state law
references, violation of any city ordinance concerning alcoholic beverage
licensing, sales or the administration thereof shall also be grounds for
refusal to issue or renew a license or suspension or revocation of a license.
   (C)   Delinquent taxes or fees.  No license for the sale or trafficking of
alcoholic beverages shall be granted or renewed to any person or entity that is
delinquent in the payment of any taxes or fees due the city at the time of
application for the license; nor shall any license be granted or renewed to
sell alcoholic beverages upon any premises or property, owned and/or occupied
by the licensee, for which there are any delinquent taxes or fees due the
city.  If a licensee becomes delinquent in the payment of any taxes due to the
city at anytime during a license period, the license to sell alcoholic
beverages shall be subject to revocation or suspension.  The City ABC
Administrator may, in his or her discretion, approve a license to sell
alcoholic beverages after receiving from the City Clerk a written statement to
the effect that the applicant for a license has paid or has made satisfactory
arrangements with the City Clerk to pay any indebtedness represented by the
unpaid and delinquent taxes or fees.
   (D)   Appeals.  Appeals may be taken from any decision of the City ABC
Administrator to the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board, pursuant to the
provisions of KRS 241.200 and 243.550, and all other applicable state law.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)
§ 121.064  APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF APPLICATION OR RENEWAL.
   (A)   If upon review of the license application, the City ABC Administrator
determines that the applicant has complied with all requirements and regulatory
provisions of this chapter and applicable state law, that the premises sought
to be licensed meets all requirements of this chapter and applicable state law
and that there are no causes for denial of a license, the City ABC
Administrator shall approve the application.
   (B)   If the City ABC Administrator has reasonable grounds to believe that
an applicant has violated any law, rule or regulation relating to alcoholic
beverages, he or she may issue to the applicant a written order setting forth
such violations and requiring the applicant to show cause why the requested
license should be issued.  The City ABC Administrator shall have the right to
order, and the applicant shall have the right to request, an evidentiary
hearing to examine any violation set forth in the show cause order issued by
the City ABC Administrator.  Any decision by the ABC City Administrator on the
application shall be subject to appeal as provided under this chapter and
applicable state law.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)
§ 121.065  ISSUANCE OF CITY LICENSE.
   Upon issuance of a state license, the requested city license shall be
issued, subject to the provisions of this chapter and state law concerning
renewal, revocation and/or suspension.  No license shall be issued by the Clerk
without the approval of the City ABC Administrator, which approval shall be
granted only after the city receives an exact duplicate or facsimile copy of
the state license issued to the applicant. The city license shall be in a form
as prescribed by the City ABC Administrator and shall conform with the
requirements of KRS 243.440.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)
§ 121.066  POSTING OF LICENSES.
   Each city license issued under this chapter shall be posted at the licensed
premises in the same manner as prescribed by KRS 343.620 for state licenses. 
An exact duplicate or facsimile of each city license issued under this chapter
shall remain in the City Clerk’s Office as part of the public record.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)
§ 121.067  PERSONS WHO MAY NOT RECEIVE A LICENSE.
   (A)   Person as applicant.
      (1)   No license shall be issued under this chapter until after the
applicant has been issued the appropriate state license by the Commonwealth of
Kentucky.
      (2)   No license shall be issued to any person under 21 years of age.
      (3)   No license shall be issued to any person who is not a citizen of
the United States and has not had an actual, bona fide residence in this state
for at least one year before the date on which his or her application for a
license is made.
      (4)   No license shall be issued to any natural person if he or she:
         (a)   Has been convicted of any felony in the five years immediately
preceding the date of application.  The five years shall be from the date of
conviction, released from custody or incarceration, parole or termination of
probation, whichever is later;
         (b)   Has been convicted of any misdemeanor involving the controlled
substances described under KRS 218A.050, 218A.060, 218A.070, 218A.080,
218A.090, 218A.100, 218A.110, 218A.120, or 218A.130 in the two years
immediately preceding the application;
         (c)   Has been convicted of any misdemeanor directly or indirectly
attributable to the use of alcoholic beverages in the two years immediately
preceding the application; or
         (d)   Has had any license issued under this chapter relating to the
regulation or the manufacture, sale and transportation of alcoholic beverages
revoked for cause or has been convicted of a violation of any such state
statute, until the expiration of two years from the date of the revocation or
conviction.
   (B)   Corporation, partnership, limited partnership or limited liability
company as applicant.  No license shall be issued to a partnership, limited
partnership, limited liability company or corporation if:
      (1)   Each member of the partnership or limited liability company, or
each of the directors, principal officers, shareholders and managers of the
corporate entity do not qualify under division (A) of this section;
      (2)   If the applicant has had any license issued under this chapter
relating to the regulation of the manufacture, sale or the transportation of
alcoholic beverages revoked for cause or has been convicted of a violation of
any criminal offense referenced as set forth above in division (A)(4) of this
section, until the expiration of two years from the date of the revocation or
conviction; or
      (3)   If any member of the partnership, limited partnership, limited
liability company, or any director, officer, shareholder or manager of the
corporate entity has had any license issued under any statute relating to the
regulation of the manufacture, sale or transportation of alcoholic beverages
revoked for cause or has been convicted of any criminal offense referenced as
set forth above in division (A)(4) of this section, until expiration of the
latter of two years from the date of revocation or two years from the date of
conviction.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)
PROHIBITIONS, RESTRICTIONS AND GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 121.080  HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   Premises for which there has been granted a license for the retail
sales of alcoholic beverages shall be permitted to sell or offer for sale
alcoholic beverages only between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. each
day, from Monday through Saturday; and on Sunday, only between the hours of 1:
00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m., subject to the exceptions set forth in division (B)
below.
   (B)   Exception.  On each New Year’s Eve (December 31), any retail licensee
shall be permitted to sell any alcoholic beverages the licensee is otherwise
permitted to sell until the hour of 1:00 a.m. on January 1.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to keep open for business or permit the public to
remain within, or to permit consumption of alcoholic beverages in or upon any
premises in which alcoholic beverages are sold at retail during the hours
within which the sale of alcoholic beverages is prohibited; provided, however,
that in the case of bona fide restaurants and hotels/motels/inns, such
establishments may be kept open for business during such hours when alcoholic
beverage sales are prohibited, but no alcoholic beverages may be sold to the
public during such hours.
   (D)   Consumption of alcoholic beverages on licensed premises may not
continue for more than 30 minutes after the hours set forth herein for the
sales of alcoholic beverages to cease.  Provided, however, that this section
limiting the time for consumption of alcoholic beverage on licensed premises
shall not apply to hotels, motels and inns.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09; Am. Ord. 2013-003, passed 12-2-13; Am. Ord.
2017-006, passed 6-14-17)  Penalty, see §
121.999
§ 121.081  ADVERTISING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Signage.  Signage which refers directly or indirectly to alcoholic
beverages will be limited to one sign, not over two square feet, that must be
displayed from the inside of the window or interior of the business.  No
additional signs, banners, posters or other type of display advertising which
refers either directly or indirectly to alcoholic beverages shall be displayed
on or be visible from the exterior of any premises licensed for the sale of
alcoholic beverages, except that reference to such may be included in the name
of the business.  This restriction shall not prevent any licensee from placing
in the window of the licensed premises menus or other price cards, not larger
than 11"x14" in size, setting forth the price at which the licensee offers
items for sale, including alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   No flashing lights shall be used to illuminate the exterior of any
premises licensed under this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this chapter to distribute
or cause to be distributed any handbills, circulars or cards as a medium for
advertising alcoholic beverages.
   (D)   Any advertising by any licensee under this chapter shall be in
compliance with KRS 244.130.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)  Penalty, see §
121.999
§ 121.082  LICENSE TO BECOME VOID IF BUSINESS DORMANT.
   Any license for the sale of alcoholic beverages issued under this chapter
shall become null and void in the event that no business is transacted under
the license for a period of 90 days.  If no business is transacted under any
license issued under this chapter during any consecutive 90-day period, the
license shall be surrendered to the City ABC Administrator, except that any
licensee who is unable to continue in business at the licensed premises may
apply to the Commonwealth of Kentucky Alcoholic Beverage Control Department,
pursuant to 804 KAR 4:110, as amended from time to time, to continue such
license in dormancy.  In the event that a period of dormancy is applied for and
granted by the State ABC Administrator, the licensee shall immediately notify
the City ABC Administrator.  Upon resumption of business or transfer or
assignment of the license, the licensee shall notify the City ABC Administrator
and a fee shall be due and payable for the period the license was in dormancy
in the same amount due had the license remained active for the same period.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)
§ 121.083  LICENSEE TO DISPLAY WARNING TO MINORS.
   It shall be the duty of every retail licensee to display at all times in a
prominent place a printed card, not smaller than 12"x16", which shall read
substantially as follows:
   WARNING TO MINORS: PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF TWENTY-ONE (21) ARE SUBJECT TO A
FINE OF UP TO ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS ($100) IF THEY:
      1.   Enter licensed premises to buy, or have served to them, alcoholic
beverages;
      2.   Purchase or attempt to buy, or have served to them, alcoholic
beverages;
      3.   Misrepresent their age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)
§ 121.084  ACCOUNTING REQUIREMENT.
   Every licensee under this chapter shall keep and maintain adequate books and
records of all transactions involving the sale of alcoholic beverages and food
in the same manner required by the reasonable rules and regulations of the
State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board, or such rules and regulations as may be
from time to time promulgated by the City ABC Administrator.  Such books and
records shall be made available at all reasonable times for inspection by the
City ABC Administrator or his or her appointed designee.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)
§ 121.085  LICENSEE TO OBTAIN COPY OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Upon timely request by the licensee, the City ABC Administrator shall
furnish to each and every licensee a copy of this chapter at the time the
license is issued with signed receipt from the licensee.  Any changes or
amendments to this chapter shall be forwarded to each licensee at the address
on the license.  Failure to receive or review such changes or amendments or
review the chapter shall not be an excuse or justification for any violation,
nor shall failure to receive or review any changes or amendments prevent, remit
or decrease any penalty for any violation of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the licensee under this chapter to obtain a
copy of this chapter from the City ABC Administrator.  Further, the cost of
obtaining a copy of this chapter shall be borne by the licensee.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)
§ 121.086  INSPECTIONS.
   Every applicant procuring a license pursuant to this chapter consents and
must submit to the entry upon licensed premises by the state or city police,
the City ABC Administrator or other duly authorized representative of the city
or state at all reasonable hours for the purpose of inspection and search of
the premises, and consents to the removal from the premises of all things and
articles contained on the premises in violation of city ordinances or state
law, and consents to the introduction of such things and articles into evidence
of any prosecution that may be brought for such offenses.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)
§ 121.087  MANDATORY RESPONSIBLE BEVERAGE SERVICE TRAINING.
   (A)   All persons employed in the selling and serving of alcoholic beverages
shall participate in and complete a city-approved responsible beverage service
training program, such as the Server Training in Alcohol Regulations
(“S.T.A.R.”) training offered by the Commonwealth of Kentucky, Alcoholic
Beverage Control Office.  For a responsible beverage service training program
to be approved by the city, it must effectively train its participants in the
identification of false age documents and recognition of characteristics of
intoxication.  The city will not require enrollment in any particular classes,
but only that the training be obtained from a recognized program meeting the
goals expressed in this section.
   (B)   All persons required to complete training under division (A), above,
shall complete such training within 30 days of the date on which the person
first becomes subject to the training requirement. When a new business is
licensed to serve alcoholic beverages, all employees must be trained prior to
the opening of the business.
   (C)   The licensee or the managing agent of the licensee shall be
responsible for compliance with the training requirements set forth in this
section and shall maintain for inspection by the City ABC Administrator a
record or file on each employee that shall contain the pertinent training
information. Each premise licensed under this chapter must at all times when
alcoholic beverages are being served have at least one person currently
certified in responsible beverage service training on duty.
   (D)   All persons completing the training required under this section shall
be re-certified in responsible beverage service training from a program
approved by the city not less than once every three years thereafter.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)
CONDUCT, LOCATION, PREMISES AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS
§ 121.100  CONDUCT REQUIREMENT.
   Each licensed premises shall at all times be conducted in an orderly manner,
and no disorderly, riotous, or indecent conduct shall be allowed at any time on
any licensed premises.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)
§ 121.101  ZONING RESTRICTIONS; LOCATION, PREMISES AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued under this chapter for the sale or
trafficking in any alcoholic beverages at any premises or location where such
business is prohibited under the city’s zoning ordinances or any other
ordinances of the city, as may be amended or supplemented from time to time,
and any license issued in violation of this section shall be null and void.
   (B)   No quota retail package license shall be granted or issued for any
premises located within 1,000 feet of the location of any other premises
holding a quota retail package license.
   (C)   The distance between locations of premises as prescribed by this
section shall be measured by following the shortest route of ordinary
pedestrian travel along public thoroughfares, from the nearest point of any
present location of any such premises to the nearest point of any proposed
licensed premises. The measurements shall be taken from the entrance of
existing licensed premises to the entrance of any proposed location.
   (D)   No license shall be issued under this chapter unless the premises to
be licensed conforms to the sanitary, safety and building code requirements of
the city and rules and regulations of the State Board of Health applicable
thereto.  Further, the City ABC Administrator shall not grant any alcoholic
beverage license until the license applicant and the intended licensed premises
have been approved by the State Health Department and City Code Enforcement
Officer with respect to all applicable building codes.
   (E)   Any licensee holding a license which permits the sale and consumption
of alcoholic beverages on the premises where sold shall maintain an easily
discernible physical barrier between the general dining area and any bar area.
The separate bar area shall be posted “Persons under 21 years of age may not
enter or remain in this area”.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09; Am. Ord. 2013-003, passed 12-2-13)
REGULATORY LICENSE FEE
§ 121.115  IMPOSITION OF REGULATORY LICENSE FEE.
   A regulatory license fee is hereby imposed on the gross receipts from the
sale of alcoholic beverages permitted pursuant to licenses issued under this
chapter.  This regulatory license fee, as initially established by this
chapter, shall be for the effective date of June 1, 2009 through May 31, 2010.
Thereafter, the City Council shall annually adopt at the time in which each
fiscal year budget is adopted, such percentage rate for the regulatory license
fee hereby imposed as shall be reasonably estimated to ensure full
reimbursement to the city for the estimated cost of any additional policing,
regulatory or administrative expenses related to the sale of alcoholic
beverages in the city.  Such regulatory license fee shall be in addition to any
other tax, fee or license permitted by law, but a credit against such
regulatory license fee shall be allowed in an amount equal to the license fee
imposed under this chapter and required to be paid at the time of license
application or renewal, and such regulatory license fee shall be applied
annually.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09; Am. Ord. 2014-004, 8-12-14)
§ 121.116  REGULATORY LICENSE FEE PERCENTAGE RATE; DEPOSIT OF FEES.
   (A)   The regulatory license fee imposed under this chapter shall be 5% of
the gross sales receipts for all alcoholic beverages sold for the licensing
year beginning June 1, 2009.
   (B)   The regulatory license fee established above in division (A) shall
continue until amended or repealed by the City Council through amended
ordinance.
   (C)   Pursuant to KRS 243.075(6), the revenue received from the imposition
of the regulatory license fee authorized under state law in this section shall
be:
      (1)   Deposited into a segregated fund of the city;
      (2)   Spent only for costs incurred for policing, regulation and
administration related to the sale of alcoholic beverages; and
      (3)   Audited under an annual audit form pursuant to KRS 91A.040.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09; Am. Ord. 2014-004, 8-12-14)
§ 121.117  PAYMENT OF REGULATORY LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The regulatory license fees as established hereunder shall be paid on
a monthly basis, and the monthly payment of such fees shall be accompanied by
tax returns approved for use by the City ABC Administrator and the City Clerk. 
The monthly tax return forms shall be submitted to the local ABC Administrator
by the twentieth day of each month to indicate the preceding month’s sales.  An
amount equal to one-twelfth of the annual license fees required for each
licensee under this chapter may be deducted each month as a credit to the
monthly regulatory license fee required.
   (B)   Failure to pay such monthly remittance as set forth above in §
121.115 and §
121.116 within ten days of the due date constitutes a violation of this chapter
and subjects the licensee to suspension or revocation of all licenses issued
pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   The penalty for failure to file the required tax return and pay
monthly remittance of the regulatory license fee by the due date indicated
above shall be 20% of the regulatory license fee due.
   (D)   Interest on unpaid regulatory license fees due shall be calculated at
the rate of 12% per annum.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)
§ 121.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall, in addition to other penalties provided by law, be subject to the
following penalties:
      (1)   For the first offense, a fine not to exceed $500; and
      (2)   For any subsequent offense, a fine not to exceed $500 or
confinement in jail not more than six months, or both.
   (B)   In addition to any other penalty provided for herein or as provided
under any other applicable federal, state or local law or regulation, any
licensee violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to suspension
or revocation of any and all licenses issued under this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 7-6-09)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130:  OFFENSES AGAINST MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS
Section
Drug-Related Objects
   
130.01   Purpose
   
130.02   Definitions
   
130.03   Selling drug-related objects to minors prohibited
   
130.04   False representation of age by minor
   
130.05   Exceptions to violation
Curfew
   
130.20   Curfew
 
   
130.99   Penalty
DRUG-RELATED OBJECTS
§ 130.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to restrict the use of drug-related
objects from use and sale within the city.
(Ord. 80-10, passed 4-1-80)
§ 130.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.  A drug, substance or immediate precursor schedules
through 1 through 5 found in KRS 218A.040, 218A.050, 218A.060, 218A.070,
218A.080, 218A.090, 218A.100, 218A.110, 218A.120 and 218A.130.
   DRUG-RELATED OBJECT.  Any machine, instrument, tool, equipment, contrivance
or device which an average person would conclude is intended to use for one or
more of the following purposes:
      (1)   Induce into the human body any dangerous drug or controlled
substance under circumstances in violation of laws of the Commonwealth.
      (2)   Enhance the effect on the human body any dangerous drug or
controlled substance under circumstances in violation of the laws of the
Commonwealth.
      (3)   Conceal any quantity of any dangerous drug or controlled substance
under circumstances in violation of the laws of the Commonwealth.
      (4)   Test the strength, effectiveness or purity of any dangerous drug or
controlled substance under circumstances in violation of the laws of the
Commonwealth.
   KNOWINGLY.  Having general knowledge that a machine, instrument, tool, item
of equipment, contrivance or device is a drug-related object or having
reasonable grounds to believe that any such object is, or may, to an average
person, appear to be a drug-related object.  If any such object has printed
thereon or is accompanied by instructions explaining the purpose and use of
such object and if following such instructions would cause a person to commit
an act involving the use or possession of a dangerous drug or controlled
substance in violation of the laws of the Commonwealth, then such instructions
shall constitute prima facie evidence of knowledge that the object in question
is a drug-related object.
   MINOR.  Any unmarried person under the age of 18 year of age.
(Ord. 80-10, passed 4-1-80)
§ 130.03  SELLING DRUG-RELATED OBJECTS TO MINORS PROHIBITED.
   Except as otherwise provided in §
130.99, it shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to sell, deliver,
distribute, display for sale or provide to a minor, or knowingly possess with
intent to sell, deliver, distribute, display for sale or provide to a minor any
drug-related object.
(Ord. 80-10, passed 4-1-80)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04  FALSE REPRESENTATION OF AGE BY MINOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor to falsely represent to any person that
such minor is 18 year of age or older with the intent to purchase or otherwise
obtain any drug-related object.
(Ord. 80-10, passed 4-1-80)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05  EXCEPTIONS TO VIOLATION.
   No person shall be guilty of violating the provisions of §
130.03 if:
   (A)   The person had reasonable cause to believe that the minor involved was
18 years of age or older, because such minor exhibited to such person a
driver's license, birth certificate or other official or apparently official
document purporting to establish that such minor was 18 years of age or older;
   (B)   The person made an honest mistake in believing that the minor was 18
years of age or over after making a reasonable bona fide attempt to ascertain
the true age of the minor;
   (C)   The person was the parent or guardian of the minor; or
   (D)   The person was acting in his capacity as an employee or official of
any governmental agency or governmental institution or of any pubic school or
other public educational institution or health care facility or institution; or
   (E)   The person was acting in his capacity as a registered pharmacist or
veterinarian, or under the direction of a registered pharmacist or
veterinarian, to sell the object for a legitimate medical purpose.
(Ord. 80-10, passed 4-1-80)  Penalty, see §
130.99
CURFEW
§ 130.20  CURFEW.
   (A)   It is hereby enacted that the city, by and through the City Council,
shall enforce a curfew within the city limits.
   (B)   The curfew prohibits persons under the age of 18 years from being upon
the public streets and all public places after 11:00 p.m. each and every day of
the week.
(Ord. 80-1, passed 5-6-80)
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
130.03 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor, as defined by KRS 532.090 with
a maximum fine of $500, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as for a
Class A misdemeanor by imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months.  For
the second or any subsequent offense a person violating the provisions of §
130.03 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined $500 and imprisonment for a
minimum term of six months but not exceeding a term of 12 months.  Any person
violating the provisions of §
130.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished as for a Class B misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined up to
a maximum of $500. 
(Ord. 80-10, passed 4-1-80)
   (B)   Persons violating the provisions of §
130.20 shall be subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   First violation.  The first violation of §
130.20 shall result in the violator being escorted to his/her place of
residence.
      (2)   Second violation.  A second violation of §
130.20 shall result in the violator being escorted to his/her place of
residence and a complaint shall be filed with the Kentucky Department of Human
Resources and an investigation on the juvenile and the family. 
(Ord. 80-01, passed 5-6-80)
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152.   MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
      
153.   PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
      
154.   ZONING CODE
         
APPENDIX: ZONING MAP
      
155.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Standard Codes
   
150.01   Adoption of Kentucky Building Code and Standards of Safety;
enforcement agents
   
150.02   Application
   
150.03   Appeals
   
150.04   Fire Prevention Code permits and fees
   
150.05   Building permits; fees; submission of plans or drawings
Excavation Requirements
   
150.15   Approval of Utility Commission prior to excavation; issuance of permit
   
150.16   Excavations to be guarded against danger
   
150.17   Accumulation of debris on public ways prohibited
   
150.18   Issuance of stop order
   
150.19   Excavation and fill permits required
   
150.20   Permit applications
   
150.21   Performance bond
   
150.22   Permit fees
   
150.23   Denial of permit
Electrical Requirements
   
150.35   Electrical permits; fees
   
150.36   Adoption of standards for electrical wiring
 
   
150.99   Penalty
STANDARD CODES
§ 150.01  ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE AND STANDARDS OF SAFETY;
ENFORCEMENT AGENTS.
   (A)   The Kentucky Building Code, as contained in Chapter 7, Title 815 of
the Kentucky Administrative Regulations; the Kentucky Plumbing Code, as
contained in Chapter 20, Title 815 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations;
the Kentucky Standards of Safety (Fire Prevention Code), as contained in
Chapter 10, Title 815 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations, together with
any amendments, are hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth in this
code of ordinances.  Copies of the above codes and any amendments thereto shall
be placed on file in the office of the City Clerk where they shall be available
for public inspection during normal business hours.
   (B)   The Building Inspector or Division shall be designated as the local
enforcement agent for the Kentucky Building Code.
   (C)   The Fire Chief and all other designated officers, agents, and
employees of the city are hereby charged with the enforcement of the provisions
of the Standards of Safety (Fire Prevention Code).
(Ord. 87-08, passed 8-11-87; Ord. 91-003, passed 3-12-91)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02  APPLICATION.
   The application of the State Building Code shall be extended to all single-
family dwellings in the city which are to be constructed or remodeled.
(Ord. 87-08, passed 8-11-87)
§ 150.03  APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals from decisions made by the Building Inspector under this
chapter may be taken to the State Board of Housing, Buildings and Construction
unless and/or until a local board of housing appeals, as set forth in KRS
Chapter 198B, is established to hear such appeals.
   (B)   All final decisions of the fire code official of the city shall be
applicable to the City Council.  (Ord. 91-003, passed 3-12-91)
Statutory reference:
   Appeals procedure, see KRS 198B.070
§ 150.04  FIRE PREVENTION CODE PERMITS AND FEES.
   Fees, payable to the city for the issuance of various Kentucky Fire Code
Permits shall be as follows:
   (A)   A fee of $2 shall be charged for an open burning permit.
   (B)   A fee of $5 shall be charged for a fireworks; permit.
   (C)   A fee of $10 shall be charged for the following permits and references
made to specific references in the fire codes for those permits:
      (1)   Fire alarm systems permit, F-500.2, page 65.
      (2)   Airports, heliports and helistops, F-800.2, page 93.
      (3)   Paint spraying, F-900.2, page 97.
      (4)   Bowling establishment, F-1000.2, page 107.
      (5)   Dry-cleaning, F-1200.2, page 111.
      (6)   Dust explosion hazards, F-1300.2, page 113.
      (7)   Fumigation and insecticidal fogging, F-1400.2, page 115.
      (8)   Lumberyard and woodworking plants, F-1500.2, page 117.
      (9)   Oil and gas production, F-1600.2, page 119.
      (10)   Hazardous Production, F-1800.2, page 127.
      (11)   Junkyards, F-2000.2, page 139.
      (12)   Welding and cutting, F-2100, page 141.
      (13)   Combustible fibers (hay and straw), F-2300.2, page 155.
      (14)   Compressed gases, F-2400.2, page 157.
      (15)   Cryogenic liquids, F-2500.2, page 159.
      (16)   Flammable liquids, F-2800.3, page 175.
      (17)   Hazardous materials and chemicals, F-2900.2, page 191.
      (18)   Magnesium, F-3100.2, page 205.
      (19)   Matches, F-3200.2, page 209.
      (20)   Organic coatings, F-3300.2, page 211.
(Ord. 91-003, passed 3-12-91)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.05  BUILDING PERMITS; FEES; SUBMISSION OF PLANS AND DRAWINGS.
   (A)   A building permit issued by the city is required prior to commencement
of any building, construction, reconstruction, renovation or demolition within
the city whenever such activity requires a building permit under the provisions
of the Uniform State Building Code. The city, through its Code Enforcement
Officer, shall issue building permits in accordance with the provisions of the
Uniform State Building Code as adopted in §
150.01 of this chapter.
   (B)   Fees to be paid by the applicant for the issuance of the required
building permit issued by the city shall be based upon a rate of $2 for every
$1,000 of estimated total building costs; and the total estimated building
costs shall be determined based upon the following documents:
      (1)   For repair and remodeling, the total estimated building costs shall
be determined by the most recently published edition of the publication
entitled "Means Repair & Remodeling Cost Data;"
      (2)   For initial commercial and/or residential construction, the total
building costs shall be determined based upon the most recently published
edition of the publication entitled "Means Square Foot Costs;" or
      (3)   As an alternative to the determination of total building costs
established above in divisions(B)(1) and (B)(2), any person or entity seeking a
building permit for either initial construction or repair and remodeling may
submit a notarized copy of a fully executed contractual agreement, signed by
both the owner/occupier of the property upon which the subject building project
is to be constructed, and the party performing the construction work, which
sets forth the total building costs for the project for which the permit is
requested, and in the event that such written document is submitted the total
building costs shall be based upon the amount stated in the executed document.
   (C)   The building permit for a sign permit shall be $0.25 per square foot
of signage, with a minimum fee of $25 per sign.
   (D)   Any person or entity seeking a building permit shall submit a copy of
the plans or drawings for the building to be constructed with the building
permit application required.
(Ord. 93-002, passed 5-11-93; Am. Ord. 95-004, passed 6-15-95; Am. Ord. 2009-
007, passed 11-10-09)  Penalty, see §
150.99
EXCAVATION REQUIREMENTS
§ 150.15  APPROVAL OF UTILITY COMMISSION PRIOR TO EXCAVATION; ISSUANCE OF
PERMIT.
   (A)   Prior to the granting of a building permit by the city, the permit
applicant must receive from the Utilities Commission a written authorization to
proceed before any excavation is done on any property located within the city
limits.  The Building Inspector shall not issue a permit until such written
authorization is received by him from the Utilities Commission.
   (B)   In the event that the construction or excavation requires the
relocation of service lines of the Utilities Commission, the permit applicant
shall be responsible for any relocation costs and in the event that a fill is
required for the building site, the permit applicant shall be responsible for
relocation or permit applicant may request the Utilities Commission to forego
any relocation by guaranteeing to the Utilities Commission that they would be
responsible for any future problems associated with filling over and placing a
service line below normal ground level.
   (C)   The Utilities Commission shall grant a decision to the permit
applicant within 15 days of the application.
   (D)   This section shall apply to both excavation as well as filling of
property located within the city limits.
(Ord. 85-06, passed 6-4-85)
§ 150.16  EXCAVATIONS TO BE GUARDED AGAINST DANGER.
   All excavations and fills for buildings or otherwise within the city shall
be protected and guarded against danger to life and property.  Permanent
excavations, where necessary, shall have walls of masonry, concrete, or other
materials of sufficient strength to retain the embankment together with any
additional loads to be placed thereon.  All excavations made below grade shall
be protected so that the soil of adjoining property will not cave or settle.
(Ord. 79-03, passed 6-5-79) 
§ 150.17  ACCUMULATION OF DEBRIS ON PUBLIC WAYS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall cause or permit any dirt, mud, gravel or other material or
substance from any fill or excavation to accumulate upon any road, street,
sidewalk or other public passway within the city.
(Ord. 79-03, passed 6-5-79)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.18  ISSUANCE OF STOP ORDER.
   The Building Inspector for the city shall have the authority to issue a stop
order to any person within the city found to be violating the provisions of
this subchapter.  The Building Inspector, the Planning and Zoning Commission,
and other city officers and employees shall have the authority to proceed
against such person to ensure compliance with this subchapter, as in the case
of violations of the Chapter 154, the Zoning Code of the city.
(Ord. 79-03, passed 6-5-79) 
§ 150.19  EXCAVATION AND FILL PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No person shall begin any excavation or fill without first having obtained,
from the Building Inspector for the city, a permit specifying the location,
size, dimensions, and area to be occupied by the excavation or fill.  An
excavation permit shall specify the time and manner of removal of material from
the excavation site, and the location for the deposit of such material.  A fill
permit shall specify the type and amount of fill material to be used, and the
method of compacting to be employed.
(Ord. 79-03, passed 6-5-79)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.20  PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for excavation or fill permits shall be on forms established
for that purpose, which forms shall be available at the City Clerk's office at
city hall, and which shall require of each applicant at least the following
information:
   (A)   The name and address of the applicant.
   (B)   A detailed map or drawing showing the excavation or fill site and all
lots, tracts or parcels of surrounding or adjoining property owners, detailing
all buildings located thereon.
   (C)   A statement of the nature and extent of all water flow (stream,
course, drainage) to be in any way affected.
   (D)   The purpose or reason for the excavation or fill.
   (E)   The length, width, breadth and depth of all excavations or fills, and
the distance of such excavations or fills from the lines of all abutting
property owners.
   (F)   The name and address of the owner of the lot, tract or parcel on which
the proposed excavation or fill is to be located, and the names of the owners
of all property adjoining, abutting or touching the lot, tract or parcel.
(Ord. 79-03, passed 6-5-79) 
§ 150.21  PERFORMANCE BOND.
   The Building Inspector, as a condition of the issuance of any permit, may
require the applicant to post a performance bond to insure compliance with this
subchapter and the terms of any such permit.  The amount of such bond shall not
exceed $.20 per cubic foot for excavations, or $.15 per cubic foot for fills. 
The bond shall be released by the Building Inspector upon satisfactory
completion of the excavation or fill in accordance with the permit and without
damage to any other property.
(Ord. 79-03, passed 6-5-79) 
§ 150.22  PERMIT FEES.
   Each applicant shall pay a permit fee which must be paid prior to the
consideration of his or her application by the Building Inspector.  The amount
of each such fee shall be determined by a “permit fee schedule” promulgated by
the Building Inspector and based upon the size of each excavation or fill.  The
amount of the minimum fee shall be $5.
(Ord. 79-03, passed 6-5-79) 
§ 150.23  DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   No permit shall be issued if it appears from an examination of the permit or
an inspection of the site that the proposed excavation or fill is likely to
result in the violation of §§
150.16 and
150.17.
(Ord. 79-03, passed 6-5-79)  Penalty, see §
150.99
ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 150.35  ELECTRICAL PERMITS; FEES.
   (A)   The city since adopting the Kentucky Building Code, has required any
person to obtain permits before commencing construction, alteration or repairs
of any electrical wiring, and required such inspection as it deems necessary
for the safety of life and property.
   (B)   The cost of the electrical permits shall be:
      (1)   $24 to $1,600 — $24.
      (2)   Over $1,600 — $50.
(Ord. 87-08, passed 8-11-87; Am. Ord. 99-007, passed 6-15-99; Am. Ord. 2007-
002, passed 3-13-07) 
§ 150.36  ADOPTION OF STANDARDS FOR ELECTRICAL WIRING.
   Reasonable standards for the construction, alteration and repair of any
electrical wiring shall be those adopted in the Kentucky Building Code, and
shall have as a minimum standard for the requirements of the National
Electrical Code.  These standards shall be used by the Electrical Inspector in
making his or her inspections.
(Ord. 79-03, passed 6-5-79; Am. Ord. 2007-002, passed 3-13-07) 
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is otherwise provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined up to $500, imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §
150.01 shall be subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   Violators of the State Building Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $1,000 for each offense. 
(KRS 198B.990(1))
      (2)   Violators of the State Standards of Safety shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $1,000, imprisonment
for not more than 60 days, or both, for each offense.  (KRS 227.990(1))
      (3)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100, imprisonment for not
more than 90 days, or both, for each offense. (KRS 318.990) (Am. Ord. 2007-002,
passed 3-13-07)
CHAPTER 151:  FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Objectives
   
151.01   Statutory authorization
   
151.02   Findings of fact
   
151.03   Statement of purpose
   
151.04   Objectives
   
151.05   Definitions
General Provisions
   
151.15   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
151.16   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
151.17   Establishment of development permit
   
151.18   Compliance
   
151.19   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.20   Interpretation
   
151.21   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
151.22   Enforcement, violation notice and penalties
Administration
   
151.40   Designation of local administrator
   
151.41   Development permit
   
151.42   Duties and responsibilities of the local administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.60   General construction standards
   
151.61   Specific standards
   
151.62   Standards for streams without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways
   
151.63   Standards for shallow flooding zones
   
151.64   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
151.65   Standards for accessory structures in all zones beginning with the
letter “A”
   
151.66   Critical facilities
   
151.67   Appeals and variance procedures
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
§ 151.01  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the Commonwealth of Kentucky has in KRS 82.082 delegated
to local government units the authority to adopt regulations designed to
promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry.
(Ord. 2017-007, passed 7-24-17)
§ 151.02  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increased flood height and velocity, and by the location
in flood hazard areas of uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to other lands
which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise protected from
flood damage.
(Ord. 2017-007, passed 7-24-17)
§ 151.03  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private loss due to flooding by
provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood height or velocity;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which accommodate or channel flood waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
areas.
(Ord. 2017-007, passed 7-24-17)
§ 151.04  OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines; streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard or other flood-prone areas in such
a manner as to minimize future flood blighted areas caused by flooding;
   (G)   Ensure that potential homebuyers are on notice that property is in a
special flood hazard area; and
   (H)   Ensure that those who occupy a special flood hazard area assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. 2017-007, passed 7-24-17)
§ 151.05  DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   A ZONE.  Special Flood Hazard Areas inundated by the 1% annual chance flood
(100-year flood). Base flood elevations (BFEs) are not determined.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should
constitute a minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation,
and should be designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns,
and hay sheds.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter or height of a structure.
   AE ZONES. Special Flood Hazard Areas inundated by the 1% annual chance flood
(100-year flood). Base flood elevations (BFEs) are determined.
   AH ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where depths are between one
and three fect (usually shallow ponding). Base flood elevations are determined.
   AO ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where water depth is between
one and three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain). Flood depths are
determined.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or from the floodplain
administrator's ruling on a request for a variance.
   AR/A1 - A30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO, AND AR/A ZONES. Special Flood Hazard Areas
(SFHAs) that result from the de-certification of a previously accredited flood
protection system that is in the process of being restored to provide a 100-
year or greater level of flood protection. After restoration is complete these
areas will still experience residual flooding from other flooding sources.
   A99 ZONE.  That part of the SFHA inundated by the 100-year flood which is to
be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection system under
construction. No base flood elevations are determined.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on a community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) where the base flood depths range from one to three
feet, there is no clearly defined channel, the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year (also called the "100-year flood"). Base flood is the term used
throughout this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, Al-30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH, and AR/
AO that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that has a
1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See definition for STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity having the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY FLOOD HAZARD AREA (CFHA). An area that has been determined by the
Floodplain Administrator (or other delegated, designated, or qualified
community official) from available technical studies, historical information,
and other available and reliable sources, which may be subject to periodic
inundation by floodwaters that can adversely affect the public health, safety
and general welfare. This includes areas downstream from dams.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives to those communities in the Regular
Program to go beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to develop
extra measures for protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety or a facility which, if unusable or
unreachable because of flooding, would seriously and adversely affect the
health and safety of the public. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not
limited to: housing likely to contain occupants not sufficiently mobile to
avoid injury or death unaided during a flood; schools, nursing homes,
hospitals, police, fire and emergency response installations, vehicle and
equipment storage facilities, emergency operations centers likely to be called
upon before, during and after a flood, public and private utility facilities
important to maintaining or restoring normal services before, during and after
a flood, and those facilities or installations which produce, use or store
volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic and/or water-reactive materials,
hazardous materials or hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. An area in which the flood hazard is undetermined.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. For insurance proposes, a non-basement structure built
to have the lowest floor elevated above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, posts, piers, pilings or columns.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A statement certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor on the FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification that verifies a structure's elevation and other related
information to verity compliance with this chapter.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The initial phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP, intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at subsidized
rates on ail insurable structures in that community before the effective date
of the initial FIRM.
   ENCLOSURE. That portion of a structure below the lowest floor used solely
for parking of vehicles, limited storage, or access to the structure.
   ENCROACHMENT. The physical advance or infringement of uses, plant growth,
fill, excavation, structures, or development into a floodplain, which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the "start of construction"
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for
FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to
as existing structures.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first floodplain management ordinance adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD. The flood that has a 0.2% chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any year. Areas subject to the 500-year flood have a moderate
risk of flooding.
   FLOOD OR FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
      (3)   Mudslides which are proximately caused by flooding and are akin to
a river of liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas,
as when earth is carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of
the current.
      (4)   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or
other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) has delineated the areas of flood hazards and the
regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). A map on which the boundaries of the
flood, mudslide (i.e. mudflow), and flood-related erosion areas having special
hazards have been designated as Zones A, M, and/or E by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM).  A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) has delineated special flood hazard areas and risk
premium zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) containing flood profiles, the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM), and/or the Flood Boundary Floodway Map (FBFM), and the water
surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being
inundated by flood waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed by the community to
administer and enforce the floodplain management ordinances.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing
natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited to emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management ordinances, and
open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances (such as grading and erosion control), and other applications of
police power, which control development in flood-prone areas. This term
describes federal, state and/or local regulations, in any combination thereof,
which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect, the FEMA form in effect at the time of certification
stating that a non-residential structure, together with attendant utilities and
sanitary facilities is watertight to a specified design elevation with walls
that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water and all structural
components are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic flood forces,
including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated debris impact forces.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. Also
referred to as the "regulatory floodway".
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. That area of the floodplain on either side of the
regulatory floodway.
   FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION.  As related in §
151.67, it means that the variance granted must not cause fraud on or
victimization of the public. In examining this requirement, the City Council
will consider the fact that every newly constructed structure adds to
government responsibilities and remains a part of the community for 50 to 100
years. Structures that are permitted to be constructed below the base flood
elevation are subject during all those years to increased risk of damage from
floods, while future owners of the property and the community as a whole are
subject to all the costs, inconvenience, danger, and suffering that those
increased flood damages may incur. In addition, future owners may purchase the
property, unaware that it is subject to potential flood damage, and can be
insured only at very high flood insurance rates.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood. FREEBOARD must be applied not
just to the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofing level, but also to
the level of protection provided to all components of the structure, such as
building utilities, HVAC components, etc.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE FACILITY. A facility, structure, or other
development, which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located
or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only a docking or
port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term storage,
manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   GOVERNING BODY. The local governing unit, i.e. county or municipality that
is empowered to adopt and implement ordinances to provide for the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
   HAZARD POTENTIAL. The possible adverse incremental consequences that result
from the release of water or stored contents due to failure of a dam or miss-
operation of a dam or appurtenances. The hazard potential classification of a
dam does not reflect in any way the current condition of a dam and its
appurtenant structures (e.g. safety, structural integrity, flood routing
capacity).
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district.
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). Increased cost of compliance coverage
means under the standard flood insurance policy the cost to repair a
substantially flood damaged building that exceeds the minimal repair cost and
that is required to bring a substantially damaged building into compliance with
the local flood damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are
floodproofing (nonresidential), relocation, elevation, demolition, or any
combination thereof. ICC COVERAGE is available on residential and non-
residential buildings (this category includes public or government buildings,
such as schools, libraries, and municipal buildings) insured under the NFIP.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps, and Flood Insurance Studies. LOMC's include the following
categories:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was inadvertently included in a designated SFHA. A LOMA
amends the current effective FIRM and establishes that a specific property is
not located in a SFHA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to manmade changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION - BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). A determination
that a structure or parcel has been elevated by properly placed engineered fill
above the BFE and is, therefore, excluded from the SHFA.
   LEVEE. A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LIMITED STORAGE. An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items which can withstand exposure to the elements and have low
flood damage potential. Such an area must be of flood resistant material, void
of utilities except for essential lighting, and cannot be temperature
controlled.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation of the sidewalk, patio, attached
garage, deck support, basement entryway or grade immediately next to the
structure and after the completion of construction.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area including
basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, structure access, or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a structure's lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected or attached to the required utilities. The
term also includes park trailers, travel trailers, and similar transportable
structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to
be improved property. The term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. See RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP. The Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The four-digit number on a flood map, followed by a letter
suffix, assigned by FEMA. The first four digits represent the map panel. The
letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised.
(The letter "A" is not used by FEMA, the letter "B" is the first revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The property value (as agreed between a willing buyer and
seller), excluding the value of the land as established by what the local real
estate market will bear. Market value of the structure can be established by
independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated by age of
structure (actual cash value) or adjusted assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL (MSL). The average height of the sea for all stages of the
tide. For the purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the MSL is used
as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain as
shown on the community's FIRM. For purposes of this chapter, the term is
synonymous with either National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or North
American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of mitigation
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the costs of
disaster response and recovery.
   MUDSLIDE (I.E. MUDFLOW). Describes a condition where there is a river, flow,
or inundation of liquid mud down a hillside, usually as a result of a dual
condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water on
the ground, preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
mudslide (i.e. mudflow) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide is
in progress, and will be recognized as such by the Floodplain Administrator
only if the mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage
that occurs.
   MUDSLIDE (I.E. MUDFLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT. The operation of and overall
program of corrective and preventative measures for reducing mudslide (i.e.
mudflow) damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans,
mudslide control works, and floodplain management regulations.
   MUDSLIDE (I.E. MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA. An area with land surfaces and slopes of
unconsolidated material where the history, geology, and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used as the vertical datum on the older FIRM'S. Refer to
FIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by
a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL. Structures that are not designed for human habitation,
including but is not limited to: small business concerns, churches, schools,
farm structures (including grain bins and silos), pool houses, clubhouses,
recreational structures, mercantile structures, agricultural and industrial
structures, warehouses, and hotels or motels with normal room rentals for less
than six months duration.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD). As corrected in 1988, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used on the newer FIRM'S and Digitally Referenced FIRM'S
(DFIRM's). (Refer to FIRM or DFIRM panel legend for correct datum.)
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes but is not limited to any dam, wall, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, structure, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, due to its location, its propensity to snare or
collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being carried
downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD). The flood that has a 1% or greater
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that
begins with the letter A is subject to inundation by the 100-year flood. Over
the life of a 30-year loan, there is a 26% chance of experiencing such a flood
with the SFHA.  See BASE FLOOD.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. A community that voluntarily elects to participate
in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management regulations that
are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. New construction or substantial improvements for
which start of construction occurred after December 31, 1974, or on or after
the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. New construction or substantial improvements for
which start of construction occurred on or before December 31, 1974, or before
the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A FEMA imposed change in community's status resulting from
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations.
   PROGRAM DEFICIENCY. A defect in a community's floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management standards.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to safety or health
of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons,
or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of
any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of a community's participation in the NFIP where
more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and higher
amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and flood elevations
determined in the FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
See BASE FLOOD.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. The process by which a community brings a structure or
other development into compliance with state or local floodplain management
regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impact of non-
compliance. Reduced impact may include protecting the structure or other
affected development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement
provisions of this chapter or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or
reducing state or federal financing exposure with regard to the structure or
other development.
   REPAIR. The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing structure.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   REPETITIVE LOSS PROPERTY. Any insurable building for which two or more
claims of more than $1,000 were paid by the National Flood Insurance Program
(NFIP) within any rolling ten-year period, since 1978. At least two of the
claims must be more-than ten days apart but, within ten years of each other. A
RL property may or may not be currently insured by the NFIP.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new or renewal flood insurance coverage shall be
provided for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a
duly constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public
body to be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
are intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy
in flood-prone areas.
   SEVERE REPETITIVE LOSS STRUCTURE.
      (1)   Any insured property that has met at least one of the following
paid flood loss criteria since 1978, regardless of ownership:
         (a)   Four or more separate claim payments of more than $5,000 each
(including building and contents payments); or
         (b)   Two or more separate claim payments (building payments only)
where the total of the payments exceeds the current market value of the
property.
      (2)   In either case, two of the claim payments must have occurred within
ten years of each other. Multiple losses at the same location within ten days
of each other are counted as one loss, with the payment amounts added together.
   SHEET FLOW AREA. See AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). That portion of the floodplain subject to
inundation by the base flood and/or flood-related erosion hazards as shown on a
FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AE, Al - A30, AH, AO, or AR.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION (Includes SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT and OTHER PROPOSED
NEW DEVELOPMENT). The date a building permit is issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
placement or other improvement is within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
(including manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings, the installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; the installation on
the property of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the externa! dimensions of the structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division, for the purposes of sale, lease, or development,
either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms and
conditions, of any tract or parcel of land into two or more lots or parcels.
   SUBROGATION. A legal action brought by FEMA to recover insurance money paid
out where all or part of the damage can be attributed to acts or omissions by a
community or other third party.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to it's before damaged condition would
equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, taking place during a one-year period in
which the cumulative percentage of improvements equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the "start of construction" of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local Code Enforcement Official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a "historic structure" provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
"historic structure."
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS.
Repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of the streets,
utilities, and pads equaling or exceeding 50% of the value of the streets,
utilities, and pads before the repair, reconstruction, or improvement
commenced.
   SUSPENSION. Removal of a participating community from the NFIP for failure
to enact and/or enforce floodplain management regulations required for
participation in the NFIP.
   UTILITIES. Include, but not limited to, electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment that service the structure and the
site.
   VARIANCE. Relief from some or all of the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. Failure of a structure or other development to fully comply with
this chapter. A structure or other development without the elevation
certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which water flows at least periodically.
   WATERSHED. All the area within a geographic boundary from which water,
sediments, dissolved materials, and other transportable materials drain or are
carried by water to a common outlet, such as a point on a larger stream, lake,
or underlying aquifer.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   X (SHADED) AND B ZONES. Areas of the 0.2% annual chance (500-year) flood
that are outside of the SFHA, areas subject to the 100-year flood with average
depths of less than one foot or with contributing drainage area less than 1
square mile, and areas protected by levees from the base flood
   X (UN-SHADED) AND C ZONES. Areas determined to be outside the 500-year
floodplain.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or a Flood
Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
(Ord. 2017-007, passed 7-24-17)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.15  LANDS TO WHICH THIS ORDINANCE APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHA), areas
applicable to KRS 151.250 and, as determined by the Floodplain Administrator or
other delegated, designated, or qualified community official as determined by
the City Council from available technical studies, historical information, and
other available and reliable sources, areas within the jurisdiction of the City
Council which may be subject to periodic inundation by floodwaters that can
adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens
of the city.
(Ord. 2017-007, passed 7-24-17)
§ 151.16  BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Johnson County,
dated September 16, 2015, with the accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps
(FIRMS), other supporting data and any subsequent amendments thereto, are
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations by
the city and for those land areas acquired by the city through annexation. This
FIS and attendant mapping is the minimum area of applicability of this chapter
and may be supplemented by studies for other areas which allow implementation
of this chapter and which are recommended to the City Council by the Floodplain
Administrator and are enacted by City Council pursuant to statutes governing
land use management regulations. The FIS and/or FIRM are permanent records of
the city and are on file and available for review by the public during regular
business hours at Paintsville City Hall, 340 Main Street, Paintsville, Kentucky
41240.
(Ord. 2017-007, passed 7-24-17)
§ 151.17  ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provision of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in the special flood hazard areas (SFHA). See §
151.41 for instructions and explanation.
   (B)   Application for a Development Permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2017-007, passed 7-24-17)
§ 151.18  COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable state regulations. Violation of the
requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing herein
shall prevent the City Council from taking such lawful action as is necessary
to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2017-007, passed 7-24-17)
§ 151.19  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 2017-007, passed 7-24-17)
§ 151.20  INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
      (A)   Considered minimum requirements;
      (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2017-007, passed 7-24-17)
§ 151.21  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the City Council of the city, any
officer or employee, thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 2017-007, passed 7-24-17)
§ 151.22  ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATION NOTICE AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Civil offense. If, at any time, development occurs which is not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying
with the terms and conditions of a floodplain development permit and any
approved modifications, such development shall constitute a civil offense.
   (B)   Notice of violation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain development permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator shall issue
a notice to the person responsible for the violation and/or the property owner,
stating the facts of the offense or violation, the section of this ordnance
and/or of the permit violated, when it occurred, how the violation is to be
remedied to bring the development into conformity with this chapter or with the
approved permit, and within what period of time the remedy is to occur, which
period of time shall be reasonable and shall be determined by the nature of the
violation and whether or not it creates a nuisance or hazard. The remedy may
include an order to stop work on the development. The notice shall also state
that a citation may be forthcoming in the event that the requested remedies and
corrective actions are not taken, which citation will request a civil monetary
fine and shall state the maximum fine which could be imposed.
   (C)   Notice of citation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain development permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator may issue a
citation to the offender stating the violation, prior notices of violation
issued, how the violation is to be remedied to bring the development into
conformity with this chapter or with the approved permit, and within what
period of time the remedy is to occur, and what penalty or penalties are
recommended. When a citation is issued, the person to whom the citation is
issued shall respond to the citation within seven days of the date the citation
is issued by either carrying out the remedies and corrections set forth in the
citation, paying the civil fine set forth in the citation or requesting a
hearing before the governing body. If the person to whom the citation is issued
does not respond to the citation within seven days, that person shall be deemed
to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a violation
occurred shall be considered final.
   (D)   Penalties. Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to
comply with any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and
safeguards established in connection with granting of a variance or special
exceptions, shall constitute a misdemeanor civil offense. Any person who
violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined no less than $500 or imprisoned for not more
than ten days, or both, and in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses
involved in the case. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Floodplain
Administrator from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent
or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2017-007, passed 7-24-17)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.40  DESIGNATION OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Council hereby appoints the Mayor or his/her designee to
administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter by granting
or denying development permits in accordance with its provisions, and is herein
referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2017-007, passed 7-24-17)
§ 151.41  ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or
other development begins within any special flood hazard area established in §
151.16.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by Floodplain Administrator prior to any development activities, and may
include, but not be limited to, the following: plans in duplicate drawn to
scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in
question; existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage
facilities; and the location of the foregoing. Endorsement of Floodplain
Administrator is required before a state floodplain construction permit can be
processed. Specifically, the following information is required.
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   Proposed elevation in relation to Mean Sea Level (MSL) of the
proposed lowest floor (including basement) of all structures in Zone A and
elevation of highest adjacent grade; or
         (b)   Proposed elevation in relation to Mean Sea Level to which any
non-residential structure will be flood-proofed;
         (c)   All appropriate certifications from a registered professional
engineer or architect that the non-residential flood-proofed structure will
meet the flood-proofing criteria in §
151.61(B) and §
151.63(B);
         (d)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      (2)   (a)   Construction stage. Upon placement of the lowest floor, and
before construction continues, or floodproofing by whatever construction means,
it shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain
Administrator and to the State a certification of the elevation of the lowest
floor or flood-proofed elevation, as built, in relation to Mean Sea Level. In
AE, Al-30, AH, and A zones where the Community has adopted a regulatory Base
Flood Elevation, said certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional engineer and
certified by same.
         (b)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
certified professional engineer or architect. Any continued work undertaken
prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder's
risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor and
floodproofing elevation survey data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further
progressive work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or
failure to make said corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a
stop-work order for the project.
(Ord. 2017-007, passed 7-24-17)
§ 151.42  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or staff is hereby appointed,
authorized and directed to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. The Floodplain Administrator is further authorized to render
interpretations of this chapter, which are consistent with its spirit and
purpose by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Permit review. Review all development permits to ensure that:
         (a)   Permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained:
review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have been
received from those governmental agencies from which approval is required by
Federal or State law, including section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C 1334.;
         (c)   Flood damages will be reduced in the best possible manner;
         (d)   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of affected watercourses. For purposes of this chapter, "adversely
affects" means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
      (2)   Review and use of any other base flood data.  When base flood
elevation data has not been provided in accordance with §
151.16, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal or
state agency, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §
151.60 et seq. Any such information shall be submitted to the City Council for
adoption.
      (3)   Notification of other agencies.
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities, the Kentucky Division of Water, and
any other federal and/or state agencies with statutory or regulatory authority
prior to any alteration or relocation of the watercourse;
         (b)   Submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA); and
         (c)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse is maintained.
      (4)   Documentation of floodplain development. Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed the following:
         (a)   Certification required by §
151.61(A) (lowest floor elevations) as shown on an accurately completed and
certified Elevation Certificate. Verify and record the actual elevation (in
relation to Mean Sea Level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new
and substantially improved structures, in accordance with  §
151.41(B);
         (b)   Certification required by §
151.41(B) (elevation or floodproofing of nonresidential structures) as shown on
an accurately completed and certified FEMA floodproofing certificate. Verify
and record the actual elevation (in relation to Mean Sea Level) to which the
new and substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed, in
accordance with §
151.41(B);
         (c)   Certification required by §
151.61(C) (elevated structures);
         (d)   Certification of elevation required by §
151.64(A) (subdivision standards),
         (e)   Certification required by §
151.61(E) (floodway encroachments),
         (f)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
maintained;
         (g)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance; and
         (h)   Remedial action. Take action to remedy violations of this
chapter as specified in §
151.22.
      (5)   Map determinations. Make interpretations where needed, as to the
exact location of the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions.
         (a)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. The
person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
151.67(C)(1);
         (b)   When base flood elevation data and floodway data have not been
provided in accordance with §
151.16, then the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §
151.60 et seq.;
         (c)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
Floodplain Administrator shall obtain certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect, in accordance with §
151.61(B) a floodproofing certificate;
         (d)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall
be maintained in the office of the Floodplain Administrator and shall be open
for public inspection.
      (6)   Right-of-entry.
         (a)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the floodplain administrator has
reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any structure or upon any
premises any condition or ordinance violation which makes such building,
structure or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the floodplain
administrator may enter such building, structure or premises at all reasonable
times to inspect the same or perform any duty imposed upon the floodplain
administrator by this chapter.
         (b)   If such structure or premises are occupied, the Floodplain
Administrator shall first present proper credentials and request entry. If such
building, structure, or premises are unoccupied, he shall first make a
reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control
of such request entry.
         (c)   If entry is refused, the Floodplain Administrator shall have
recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
         (d)   When the Floodplain Administrator shall have first obtained a
proper inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no
owner or occupant or any other persons having charge, care or control of any
building, structure, or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is
made as herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the Floodplain
Administrator for the purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this
chapter.
      (7)   Stop work orders. Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator,
work on any building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the
provisions of this chapter shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in
writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, or to his agent, or to
the person performing the work, and shall state the conditions under which work
may be resumed.
      (8)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of this chapter, in case there has been any false
statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or
plans on which the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination that the construction, erection, alteration, repair, moving,
demolition, installation, or replacement of the structure for which the permit
was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the provisions of
this chapter.
      (9)   Liability.
         (a)   Any officer, employee, or member of the Floodplain
Administrator's staff, charged with the enforcement of this chapter, acting for
the applicable governing authority in the discharge of his/her duties, shall
not thereby render personally liable, and is hereby relieved from all personal
liability, for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of
any act required or permitted in the discharge of his/her duties.
         (b)   Any suit brought against any officer, employee, or member
because of such act performed by him/her in the enforcement of any provision of
this chapter shall be defended by the department of law until the final
termination of the proceedings.
      (10)   Expiration of floodplain construction permit. A floodplain
development permit, and all provisions contained therein, shall expire if the
"start of construction" has not occurred within 180 calendar days from the date
of its issuance.
(Ord. 2017-007, passed 7-24-17)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.60  GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy;
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
and lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air condition equipment,
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   (F)   Within Zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures;
   (G)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (H)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters;
   (I)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall
meet the requirements of "new construction" as contained in this chapter;
   (K)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter,
shall be undertaken only if said non-conformity is not furthered, extended, or
replaced.
(Ord. 2017-007, passed 7-24-17)
§ 151.61  SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation data have been
provided, as set forth in §
151.16, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured home) shall have the
lowest floor, including basement, mechanical equipment, and ductwork elevated
no lower than one foot above the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation
perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to
facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic flood forces on walls shall be
provided in accordance with standards of division (C) of this section.
      (1)   In an AO zone, the lowest floor shall be elevated above the highest
adjacent grade to a height equal to or higher than the depth number specified
in feet on the FIRM, or elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent
grade if no depth number is specified.
      (2)   In an A zone, where no technical data has been produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Floodplain Administrator will
determine the method by which base flood elevations are determined. Methods
include, but are not limited to, detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analyses,
use of existing data available from other sources, approximate methods, use of
historical data, best supportable and reasonable judgment in the event no data
can be produced. The lowest floor shall be elevated no lower than one foot
above such base flood elevation. Title 401 KAR (Kentucky Administrative
Regulations) Chapter 4, Regulation 060, Section 5(5)a, states as a part of the
technical requirements for a State Floodplain Permit: The applicant shall
provide cross sections for determining floodway boundaries (and thereby Base
Flood Elevations) at any proposed construction site where FEMA maps are not
available. All cross sections shall be referenced to mean sea level and shall
have vertical error tolerances of no more than 0.5 foot. Cross sections
elevations shall be taken at those points which represent significant breaks in
slope and at points where hydraulic characteristics of the base floodplain
change. Each cross section shall extend across the entire base floodplain and
shall be in the number and at the locations specified by the cabinet. If
necessary to ensure that significant flood damage will not occur, the cabinet
may require additional cross sections or specific site elevations which extend
beyond those needed for making routine regulatory floodway boundary
calculations.
      (3)   In all other zones, elevated one foot above the base flood
elevation. Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor, and verified by the community building inspection
department to be properly elevated. Such certification and verification shall
be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure
(including manufactured homes used for nonresidential purposes) shall be
elevated to conform with division (A) of this section or together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities:
      (1)   Be flood proofed to an elevation one foot above the level of the
base flood elevation so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy and debris;
      (3)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this division are satisfied. Such certification along with the
design and operational maintenance plans shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator.
      (4)   Manufactured homes shall meet the standards in division (D) of this
section.
      (5)   All new construction and substantial improvement with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor (including basements) that are usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, and which are
subject to flooding, shall be constructed of flood resistant materials to an
elevation one foot above the base flood elevation, and, shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwater. Openings for meeting this requirement
must meet or exceed the standards of division (C) of this section.
   (C)   Elevated structures. New construction and substantial improvements of
elevated structures on columns, posts, or pilings that include fully enclosed
areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the lowest floor
shall be designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow for
the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls.
      (1)   Openings for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or higher
than the exterior foundation grade); and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
      (2)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door), limited storage of maintenance equipment
used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door), or entry to the
living area (stairway or elevator); and
      (3)   The interior portion of such enclosed areas shall not be finished
or partitioned into separate rooms.
   (D)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   All new and substantially improved manufactured homes placed on
sites located within A, Al-30, AO, AH, and AE on the community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must meet all the requirements for new construction,
including elevation and anchoring. Locations include:
         (a)   On individual lots or parcels;
         (b)   In expansions to existing manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
         (c)   In new manufactured home parks or subdivisions;
         (d)   In substantially improved manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
         (e)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; and
         (f)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site
upon which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as the result
of a flood.
      (2)   All such manufactured homes must be:
         (a)   Elevated on a permanent foundation;
         (b)   Have its lowest floor elevated no lower than one foot above the
level of the base flood elevation; and
         (c)   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system
to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (3)   Except manufactured homes that have incurred substantial damage as
a result of a flood, all manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in
an existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated so that:
         (a)   The manufactured home is securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement,
so that either the:
         (b)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower
than one foot above the base flood elevation; or
         (c)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less
than 36 inches in height above the highest adjacent grade.
      (4)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites located within A, Al-30,
AO, AH, and AE on the community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days,
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements for new construction of this
chapter, including anchoring and elevation requirements for "manufactured
homes".
      (5)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is licensed
and insured in accordance with the State of Kentucky motor vehicle regulations,
is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions.
   (E)   Flood ways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established
in §
151.16 are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential, the following provisions
shall apply:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other developments unless certification (with
supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in the base
flood elevation levels during occurrence of base flood discharge;
      (2)   If division (E) of this section is satisfied, all new construction
and substantial improvements and other proposed new development shall comply
with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of §
151.61.
(Ord. 2017-007, passed 7-24-17)
§ 151.62  STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
151.16, where streams exist but where no base flood data has been provided or
where base flood data has been provided without floodways, the following
provisions apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures shall be
located within special flood hazard areas, unless certification by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community. The engineering
certification should be supported by technical data that conforms to standard
hydraulic engineering principles.
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvements of structures shall be
elevated or flood proofed to elevations established in accordance with §
151.16.
(Ord. 2017-007, passed 7-24-17)
§ 151.63  STANDARDS FOR SHALLOW FLOODING ZONES.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
151.16, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have flood
hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet where a clearly
defined channel does not exist and the water path of flooding is unpredictable
and indeterminate; therefore, the following provisions apply:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map above the highest adjacent grade.
      (2)   In Zone AO, if no flood depth is specified, the lowest floor,
including basement, shall be elevated no less than two feet above the highest
adjacent grade.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map, above the highest adjacent grade.
      (2)   In Zone AO, if no flood depth is specified, the lowest floor,
including basement, shall be elevated no less than two feet above the highest
adjacent grade.
      (3)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely flood proofed either to the base flood elevation or above or, in
Zone AO, to or above the specified flood depth plus a minimum of one foot so
that any space below that level is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of
buoyancy. Certification is required as stated in §
151.61(B).
(Ord. 2017-007, passed 7-24-17)
§ 151.64  STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard area and the
elevation of the base flood and be consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage;
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards; and
   (D)   In areas where base flood elevation and floodway data is not
available, base flood elevation and floodway data for subdivision proposals and
other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and subdivisions)
greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is the lesser, shall be provided.
   (E)   All subdivision plans will include the elevation of proposed structure
(s) and lowest adjacent grade. If the site is filled above the base flood
elevation, the lowest floor and lowest adjacent grade elevations shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2017-007, passed 7-24-17)
§ 151.65  STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES IN ALL ZONES BEGINNING WITH THE
LETTER 'A'.
   For all accessory structures in special flood hazard areas designated 'A'
the following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   Must be non-habitable;
   (B)   Must be anchored to resist floatation and lateral movement;
   (C)   Must be provided with flood openings in accordance with the standards
of §
151.61(C);
   (D)   Must be built of flood resistant materials to one foot above the base
flood elevation;
   (E)   Must elevate utilities one foot above the base flood elevation;
   (F)   Can only be used for storage or parking; and
   (G)   Must not be modified for a different use after permitting.
(Ord. 2017-007, passed 7-24-17)
§ 151.66  CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA (100-year floodplain). Construction of
new critical facilities shall not be permissible within the floodway; however,
they may be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated one foot or more above the base flood elevation at the
site. Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2017-007, passed 7-24-17)
§ 151.67  APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Nature of variances. The variance criteria set forth in this
section of this chapter are based on the general principle of zoning law that
variances pertain to a piece of property and are not personal in nature. A
variance may be granted for a parcel of property with physical characteristics
so unusual that complying with the requirements of this chapter would create an
exceptional hardship to the applicant or the surrounding property owners. The
characteristics must be unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent
parcels. The unique characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the
structure, its inhabitants, or the property owners.
      (2)   It is the duty of the City Council to help protect its citizens
from flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of
insuring a structure built below flood level is so serious that variances from
the flood elevation or from other requirements in the flood ordinance are quite
rare. The long-term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can
only be met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance
guidelines provided in this chapter are more detailed and contain multiple
provisions that must be met before a variance can be properly granted. The
criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives
other than a variance are more appropriate.
   (B)   Designation of Variance and Appeal Board. The City Council shall
establish a Variance and Appeal Board.
   (C)   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board.
      (1)   The Variance and Appeal Board shall hear and decide requests for
variances from the requirements of this chapter and appeals of decisions or
determinations made fay the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Variance and Appeal
Board may appeal such decision to the Circuit Court, as provided in Kentucky
Revised Statutes.
   (D)   Variance procedures. In passing upon such applications, the Variance
and Appeal Board shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant
factors, all standards specified in other sections of this chapter, and the:
      (1)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
      (2)   Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
      (4)   Importance to the community of the services provided by the
existing or proposed facility;
      (5)   Necessity that the facility be located on a waterfront, in the case
of functionally dependent use;
      (6)   Availability of alternative locations, which are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
      (10)   Expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
      (11)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, water systems, streets, and bridges and
culverts.
   (E)   Conditions for variances. Upon consideration of the factors listed
above and the purposes of this chapter, the Variance and Appeal Board may
attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to
further the purposes of this chapter.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory'
floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would
result.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the "minimum necessary" to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. "Minimum necessary" means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation
from the requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to
an elevation requirement, this means the City Council need not grant permission
for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the
applicant proposes, but only to that elevation which the City Council believes
will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the local ordinance.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood height, additional threats to public safety, cause
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance (as defined in the definition
section under "Public safety and nuisance"), cause fraud or victimization of
the public (as defined in the definition section) or conflict with existing
local laws or ordinances.
      (4)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
lowest floor being situated below the base flood elevation.
      (5)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) upon request
      (6)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement, and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use provided that the provisions of division (D) of this
section are satisfied and that the structure or other development is protected
by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and does not
result in additional threats to public safety and does not create a public
nuisance.
   (F)   Variance notification. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted
shall be given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $ 100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the City Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance or denial, and
report such variances issued in the community's biennial report submission to
the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (G)   Historic structures. Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of HISTORIC STRUCTURES (see definition) upon determination that
the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's
continued designation as an historic structure and the variance is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
(Ord. 2017-007, passed 7-24-17)
CHAPTER 152:  MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
   
152.01   Mobile homes; house trailers within city prohibited
   
152.02   Application of prohibition
   
152.03   Exception for temporary structures on construction sites; permit
required
   
152.04   Exception for licensed mobile home parks
   
152.05   Previously existing mobile homes permitted to remain
 
   
152.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Mobile home flood prevention standards, see §
151.31(D)
   Mobile home park use; zoning standards, see §
154.050
§ 152.01  MOBILE HOMES; HOUSE TRAILERS WITHIN CITY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to place or locate within the city any mobile homes or
house trailers or any structure transported on its own wheels for commercial or
residential use.
(Ord. 78-10, passed 11-7-78; Am. Ord. 86-06, passed 6-10-86; Am. Ord. 2005-007,
passed 12-13-05; Am. Ord. 2016-002, passed 9-12-16)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.02  APPLICATION OF PROHIBITION.
   This prohibition shall apply regardless of whether the wheels connected to
such structure are capable of being removed, and regardless of whether such
structure is capable of being placed upon a permanent foundation.  This
prohibition shall not apply to self-propelled recreation vehicles, except that
it shall be unlawful to make any commercial, residential, industrial, or other
nonrecreational use of such vehicle.
(Ord. 78-10, passed 11-7-78; Am. Ord. 86-06, passed 6-10-86) 
§ 152.03  EXCEPTION FOR TEMPORARY STRUCTURES ON CONSTRUCTION SITES; PERMIT
REQUIRED.
   The prohibitions contained in this chapter shall not apply to structures
used temporarily for office or storage purposes on construction sites within
the city; provided, however that should any such structure be placed or located
within the city, a permit must be obtained from the Building Inspector, which
the permit by its terms shall limit the location or placement of such structure
to the actual construction site, for a limited time period not to exceed the
estimated period of construction; and provided, further that during the term of
such permit no commercial, residential, or other use of the structure shall be
mace except as an office or storage unit for the builder or builders involved
in the actual construction project, on the site of which the structure is
located.
(Ord. 78-10, passed 11-7-78; Am. Ord. 86-06, passed 6-10-86)
§ 152.04  EXCEPTION FOR LICENSED MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   This chapter shall not apply to mobile homes or house trailers or any
structure transported on its own wheels for commercial or residential use
insofar as same are located or placed in licensed mobile home parks within the
city limits.  If the licensed mobile home parks comply with the applicable
provisions of this code and any other ordinance of the city and the laws of the
commonwealth.
(Ord. 78-10, passed 11-7-78; Am. Ord. 86-06, passed 6-10-86)
§ 152.05  PREVIOUSLY EXISTING MOBILE HOMES PERMITTED TO REMAIN.
   All existing mobile homes within the city which complied with all existing
regulations at the time of passage of this chapter [i.e., April 4, 1972] shall
be allowed to remain in their present location as long as the mobile home is
issued by the present residents.  Should the present resident owner or renter
decide to move elsewhere the right to maintain the mobile home outside a mobile
home parks shall terminate and the owner shall be required to move the mobile
home into a mobile home park before the mobile home can be reoccupied.  No
mobile home shall be permanently relocated on another lot.  It is further
provided that existing mobile home parks legally operating at the time of
passage of this section may continue to operate, but shall be required to
maintain a lot size of 3,000 square feet per mobile home and comply with other
provisions of this section.  Existing occupants will be allowed to remain, but
as the occupants move out no new residents will be permitted until the park
meets the 3,000 square feet per mobile home lot size.  No future mobile home
shall be permanently located outside of an approved park.
(Ord. 72-02, passed 4-4-72)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500, imprisonment for 30 days, or
both.  Each day a mobile home or house trailer remains in the city limits in
violation of this chapter shall be deemed a separate offense, subject to the
penalty just provided.
CHAPTER 153:  PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
Section
Comprehensive Plan
   
153.01   Adoption by reference
Planning and Zoning Commission
   
153.15   Establishment; composition of members
   
153.16   Term of membership
Joint Industrial Development Authority
   
153.30   Establishment
   
153.31   Purpose and duties
   
153.32   Membership; term; replacement of members
   
153.33   Withdrawal from Authority
   
153.34   Authority to be body politic corporate
   
153.35   Quorum; meetings
   
153.36   Compensation; election of officers
   
153.37   Employment of counsel, agents and employees
   
153.38   Secretary-Treasurer; powers and duties
   
153.39   Methods of financing the purchase of property
   
153.40   Title to property vested in Authority; tax exemptions
   
153.41   Acquisition of land declared public and governmental function
Industrial Development Board
   
153.55   Establishment
   
153.56   Purpose and duties
   
153.57   Membership; term; replacement of members
   
153.58   Quorum; meetings
   
153.59   Compensation; election of officers
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
§ 153.01  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The city comprehensive plan, within the meaning of KRS 100.183 through
100.197, and all amendments thereto, are adopted by reference and incorporated
into this code of ordinances as if fully set forth herein.
   (B)   Copies of the comprehensive plan are available for public inspection
during normal hours at the office of the City Clerk.  (Ord. 90-11, passed 6-12-
90; Am. Ord. 90-16, passed 8-14-90)
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
§ 153.15  ESTABLISHMENT; COMPOSITION OF MEMBERS.
   There is created a Planning and Zoning Commission, which shall be composed
of seven members, as required by KRS 100.133, and which the Commission shall be
appointed by the Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, as provided in
KRS 100.141.
(Ord. 77-04, passed 6-7-77)
§ 153.16  TERM OF MEMBERSHIP.
   The term of each member of the Planning and Zoning Commission appointed
hereunder shall be for a period of four years.
(Ord. 77-04, passed 6-7-77)
Cross-reference:
   Zoning Code, see
Chapter 154
JOINT INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 153.30  ESTABLISHMENT.
   The city hereby creates and establishes a Joint Industrial Development
Authority with the city to be known as the Prestonburg-Paintsville Joint
Industrial Development Authority, to:
   (A)   Aid in the acquisition, retention and development of land located
between the two cities for industrial and commercial purposes;
   (B)   Aid in the development and promotion of industrial sites, parks and
subdivisions for accommodating industrial and commercial needs; and
   (C)   Promote and stimulate the acquisition, retention and development of
land for industrial and commercial purposes located between the cities of
Paintsville and Prestonsburg, Kentucky.
(Ord. 87-04, passed 4-2-87)
§ 153.31  PURPOSE AND DUTIES.
   The purpose, duties, function and powers of the Authority shall be all those
enumerated and consequential to the provisions of KRS 154.50-301 through
154.50-346.
(Ord. 87-04, passed 4-2-87)
§ 153.32  MEMBERSHIP; TERM; REPLACEMENT OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   The members of the Prestonburg-Paintsville Joint Industrial
Development Authority shall be appointed by the Mayors who shall choose three
members each, and who shall choose successors.
   (B)   Members of the Authority shall serve for a term of four years each,
and until their successors are appointed and qualified, provided, however, that
initial appointments shall be made so that two members are appointed for two
years, two members for three years and two members for four years.  Upon
expiration of these staggered terms, successors shall be appointed for a term
of four years.
   (C)   A member may be replaced by the Authority upon a showing to the
Authority of misconduct as an Authority member or upon conviction of a felony. 
No Authority member shall hold any official office with the appointing
Authority.
(Ord. 87-04, passed 4-2-87)
§ 153.33  WITHDRAWAL FROM AUTHORITY.
   Withdrawal from the Prestonsburg-Paintsville Joint Industrial Development
Authority shall be in accordance with KRS 154.50-330 for either party desiring
to withdraw from participation.
(Ord. 87-04, passed 4-2-87)
§ 153.34  AUTHORITY TO BE BODY POLITICAL CORPORATE.
   The Authority shall be a body politic and corporate with the usual corporate
attributes, and in its corporate name may sue and be sued, contract and be
contracted with and do all things reasonable or necessary to effectively carry
out the duties prescribed by KRS 154.50-301 through 154.50-346.
(Ord. 87-04, passed 4-2-87)
§ 153.35  QUORUM; MEETINGS.
   No business shall be carried out by the Authority unless a quorum be
present.  A quorum for the transacting of business of the Authority shall
consist of four members.  Meetings of the Authority may be called by the
Chairperson or by four members.  In case of tie voting by the Authority, the
issue shall be deemed to have failed passage.
(Ord. 87-04, passed 4-2-87)
§ 153.36  COMPENSATION; ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   Members of the Authority shall serve without compensation, but shall be
reimbursed for any actual and necessary expenses incurred by them in the
conduct of the affairs of the Authority.  The Authority shall, upon the
appointment of its members, organize and elect officers. The Authority shall
choose a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson who shall serve for terms of one
year.  The Authority may fix a salary for the Secretary-Treasurer, and the
Secretary-Treasurer shall execute an official bond to be set and approved by
the Authority, and the cost thereof shall be paid by the Authority.
(Ord. 87-04, passed 4-2-87)
§ 153.37  EMPLOYMENT OF COUNSEL, AGENTS AND EMPLOYEES.
   The Authority may employ necessary counsel, agents and employees to carry
out its work and functions and prescribe such rules and regulations as it deems
necessary.
(Ord. 87-04, passed 4-2-87)
§ 153.38  SECRETARY-TREASURER; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Secretary-Treasurer shall:
   (A)   Keep the minutes of all meetings of the Authority and shall also keep
a set of books showing the receipts and expenditures of the Authority. 
   (B)   Preserve on file duplicate vouchers for all expenditures and shall
present to the Authority, upon request, complete reports of all financial
transactions and the financial condition of the Authority.  Such books and
vouchers shall at all times be subject to examination by the legislative bodies
of the City of Prestonburg and the City of Paintsville.
   (C)   Transmit at least once annually a detailed report of all facts and
doings of the Authority to the legislative bodies of the City of Prestonsburg
and Paintsville, Kentucky.
(Ord. 87-04, passed 4-2-87)
§ 153.39  METHODS OF FINANCING THE PURCHASE OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   In order to provide money for the purchase of property necessary to
develop industrial sites, parks and subdivisions, the legislative body of the
cities of Prestonsburg and Paintsville may make an annual appropriation from
its general fund for such industrial development.  Any appropriation shall be
made by the legislative body in such amounts, in such proportion and upon such
terms as the legislative bodies may determine.  All funds derived from such
appropriation shall be turned over to the Industrial Development Authority for
the purpose of carrying out the duties and powers of the Authority.
   (B)   The Authority may borrow money on its own credit in anticipation of
revenue to be derived from appropriation or other income.  For such purposes
the Authority may pledge the appropriations or income anticipated.  The
Authority may pledge the industrial sites, parks and subdivisions as security
for monies borrowed.
   (C)   The Authority may defray the cost of acquiring and developing any
industrial sites, parks and subdivisions through the issuance of revenue bonds
issued under the terms, conditions and procedures set forth in KRS 103.200 and
103.285.
   (D)   The Authority may, as an alternative method and in addition to all
other methods provided by law, acquire and develop land for industrial and
commercial use, and issue revenue bonds in connection therewith under the terms
and provisions of KRS Chapter 58 and under the law the term GOVERNMENTAL
AGENCYmeans the Authority and the term PUBLIC PROJECTmeans industrial sites,
parks and subdivisions.
(Ord. 87-04, passed 4-2-87)
§ 153.40  TITLE TO PROPERTY VESTED IN AUTHORITY; TAX EXEMPTIONS.
   The title to all property acquired by the Authority shall vest in the
Authority.  All property acquired for the development of industrial sites,
parks and subdivisions shall be exempt from taxation to the same extent as
other property used for public purposes.  All revenues collected by the
Authority shall also be exempt from taxation.
(Ord. 87-04, passed 4-2-87)
§ 153.41  ACQUISITION OF LAND DECLARED PUBLIC AND GOVERNMENTAL FUNCTION.
   The acquisition of any lands for the purpose of developing industrial sites,
parks and subdivisions is hereby declared to be a public and governmental
function, exercised for a public purpose, and a matter of public necessity, and
such lands and other property, easements and privileges acquired in the manner
for the purposes enumerated in KRS 154.50-301 through 154.50-346 shall and are
hereby declared to be acquired and used for public and governmental purposes
and as a matter of public necessity.
(Ord. 87-04, passed 4-2-87)
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BOARD
§ 153.55  ESTABLISHMENT.
   The city hereby creates and establishes an Industrial Development Board to
be known as the Paintsville Industrial Development Board, to:
   (A)   Aid in the acquisition, retention and development of land for
industrial and commercial purposes;
   (B)   Aid in the development and promotion of industrial sites, parks and
subdivisions for accommodating industrial and commercial needs; and
   (C)   Promote and stimulate the acquisition, retention and development of
land for industrial and commercial purposes located in the city.
(Ord. 2003-011, passed 9-25-03)
§ 153.56  PURPOSE AND DUTIES.
   The purpose, duties, function and powers of the Board shall be to aid in the
development and promotion of industrial sites, parks and subdivisions for
accommodating industry and commercial needs. All projects obtained by this
Board must be approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 2003-011, passed 9-25-03)
§ 153.57  MEMBERSHIP; TERM; REPLACEMENT OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   The members of the city Industrial Development Board shall be
appointed by the Mayor who shall choose five members, and who shall choose
successors. These appointments shall be approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Members of the Board shall serve for a term of four years each, and
until their successors are appointed and qualified, provided, however, that
initial appointments shall be made so that two members are appointed for two
years, two members for three years and one member for four years. Upon
expiration of these staggered terms, successors shall be appointed for a term
of four years.
   (C)   A member may be replaced by the Board upon a showing to the Board of
misconduct as a Board member or upon conviction of a felony. Board members
shall not hold any official office with the appointing Authority.
(Ord. 2003-011, passed 9-25-03)
§ 153.58  QUORUM; MEETINGS.
   No business shall be carried out by the Board unless a quorum be present. A
quorum for the transacting of business of the Board shall consist of three
members. Meetings of the Board may be called by the Chairperson or by three
members. In case of tie voting by the Board, the issue shall be deemed to have
failed passage.
(Ord. 2003-011, passed 9-25-03)
§ 153.59  COMPENSATION; ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation, but shall be
reimbursed for any actual and necessary expenses incurred by them in the
conduct of the affairs of the Board. The Board shall, upon the appointment of
its members, organize and elect officers. The Board shall choose a Chairperson
and Vice-Chairperson who shall serve for terms of one year.
(Ord. 2003-011, passed 9-25-03)
CHAPTER 154:  ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Authority
   
154.002   Title
   
154.003   Purpose
   
154.004   Definitions
   
154.005   Application of regulations
   
154.006   Zoning map
   
154.007   Conflict with other instruments; strictest to prevail
Development Regulations
   
154.020   Coordination with subdivision regulations
   
154.021   Planned-development project regulations
   
154.022   Conditional use regulations
   
154.023   Approval of Utilities Commission required
Structure and Use Regulations
   
154.035   Nonconforming structures
   
154.036   Nonconforming uses
   
154.037   Approved water supply and sewage disposal for buildings
   
154.038   Regulation of principal buildings
Coordination with Kentucky Revised Statutes on Specific Uses
   
154.050   Mobile home parks
Lot and Yard Regulations
   
154.060   Obstructions to vision at street intersections
   
154.061   Front-yard regulations for corner, double-frontage lots
   
154.062   Application of yards to one building only
   
154.063   Use of yards for accessory buildings
   
154.064   Screening requirements
Vehicle Regulations
   
154.075   Off-street parking spaces for automobiles
   
154.076   Off-street loading, unloading spaces for trucks
   
154.077   Arrangement, and surfacing of spaces; proof of availability
   
154.078   Parking and storage of certain vehicles
Exceptions
   
154.090   Use exceptions
   
154.091   Height exception
Zoning Districts
   
154.110   Establishment and design
   
154.111   Interpretation of zoning district boundaries
   
154.112   Schedule of dimension and area regulations
Residential District
   
154.125   Applicable regulations
Commercial District
   
154.135   Applicable regulations
   
154.136   C-1 Neighborhood Commercial District
   
154.137   C-2 General Business District
   
154.138   C-3 Central Business District
   
154.139   C-4 Highway Business District
   
154.140   Accessory structures and uses permitted
   
154.141   Special regulations
   
154.142   Dimension and area regulations
Industrial District
   
154.155   Applicable regulations
   
154.156   I-1 Light Industry
   
154.157   I-2 Heavy Industry
   
154.158   Accessory structures and uses permitted
   
154.159   Conditional uses
   
154.160   Dimension and area regulations
Signs; Advertising
   
154.170   Signs and outdoor advertising
   
154.171   Regulations of signs or advertising devices by zones
Floodplain District
   
154.185   Intent
   
154.186   Permitted uses
   
154.187   Uses expressly prohibited
Special Zoning Districts
   
154.200   Farm Districts
   
154.201   Forestry Districts
   
154.202   Recreational Districts
   
154.203   Watershed Districts
   
154.204   Open-space Districts
   
154.205   Landmarks or Preservation Districts
Administration
   
154.215   Enforcement Officer
   
154.216   Zoning permits
   
154.217   Certificates of occupancy
   
154.218   Board of Adjustment
   
154.219   Clarification of administrative jurisdictions
   
154.220   Violations and remedies
Amendments
   
154.230   Applications for amendments
   
154.231   Procedure
   
154.232   Fees
   
154.233   Planned-Development District Amendment
   
154.234   Currency of zoning map
   
154.235   Currency of zoning code
 
   
154.999   Penalty
   
Appendix: Zoning Map
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001  AUTHORITY.
   The City Council, as authorized by KRS 100.201, does hereby enact the
following zoning code.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
§ 154.002  TITLE.
   This chapter is entitled “Zoning Ordinance for the City of Paintsville,
Kentucky,” and may be referred to as the “Zoning Ordinance.”  The zoning map
referred to herein is entitled “Zoning Map, Paintsville Kentucky.”  The zoning
map is hereby made a part of the Zoning Code, and certified copies of this
Zoning Code are on file with the Paintsville Planning and Zoning Code are on
file with the Paintsville Planning and Zoning Commission and with the City
Clerk.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
§ 154.003  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the general welfare by
establishing and regulating zoning districts throughout the city for the
specific purposes detailed in KRS 100.201.  In establishing the zoning
districts, this chapter seeks to promote the general welfare by designating
sufficient space for all necessary uses of the land in logical patterns by
protecting the permitted uses in each district from the undesirable effects of
conflicting uses and seek to ensure the stable value of all permitted
development.  This chapter further seeks the general welfare by protecting the
efficiency and encouraging the improvement of traffic circulation and access to
the land in all districts in order that daily travel and commerce may increase
in safety and may be carried forth with a minimum of delay for the benefit of
all activities and persons in the city.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
§ 154.004  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTUREor USE.  Any structure or use, other than the principal
structure or use, directly incident to or required for the employment of the
permitted use of any premises, also as specifically designated under the zoning
district regulations of this chapter.
   ADVERTISING SIGN.  Any work, lettering, parts of letters, figures, numbers,
phrases, sentences, designs, pictures, emblems, devices (including loud
speakers), trade names, or trademarks by which anything is made known, such as
are used to designate an individual, a firm or association, a corporation, a
profession, a business, a service, a commodity, or a product, which are visible
from any public street or right-of-way and designed to attract attention.  The
term SIGN shall not include the flag, pennant, or insignia of any nation,
state, city or other political unit, or of any political, educational,
charitable, philanthropic, civic, professional, religious or like campaign,
drive, movement or event.
   ALLEY.  A public passage or way affording a secondary means of vehicle
access to abutting property and not intended for general traffic circulation.
   ALTERATION.  Any change or addition to the supporting members or foundation
of a structure.
   BUILDING.  Any structure constructed or used for residence, business,
industry, or other public or private purposes, and similar structures which
fully encloses space for occupancy by persons or their activities.
   COMMERCIAL FLOOR AREA. Floor area of a building which is devoted to the
storage and display of merchandise, the performance of consumer services, or
the circulation and accommodation of customers.
   CONDITIONAL USE.  A use which is essential to or which would promote the
public health, safety, or welfare in one or more zones, but which would impair
the integrity and character of the zone in which it is located or in adjoining
zones unless restrictions on location, size, extent and character of
performance are imposed in addition to those imposed in this chapter.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.  Legal authorization to undertake a conditional use,
issued by the administrative official pursuant to authorization by the Board of
Adjustment consisting of two parts:
      (1)   A statement of the factual determination by the Board of Adjustment
which justifies the issuance of the permit.
      (2)   A statement of the special conditions which must be met in order
for the use to be permitted.
   CONSUMER SERVICES.  Sale of any service to individual customers for their
own personal benefit, enjoyment, or convenience, and for fulfillment of their
own personal needs.  For example, consumer services include the provision of
the personal services such as beautician and barbering services, the provision
of lodging, entertainment, specialized instruction, financial service,
automobile storage, transportation, laundry and dry cleaning services, and all
other similar services.
   CORNER LOT.  A lot which abuts on two intersecting streets at their
intersection.
   DIMENSIONAL VARIANCE.  Departure from the terms of the zoning regulations
pertaining to height or width of structures and size of yards and open spaces
where such departure will not be contrary to the public interest, and where
owing to conditions peculiar to the property because of its size, shape, or
topography and not as a result of the action of the applicant, the literal
enforcement of this chapter would result in unnecessary and undue hardship.
   DOUBLE-FRONTAGE LOT.  Any lot other than a corner lot which abuts on two
streets.
   DWELLING.  A dwelling is a building providing shelter, sanitation, and the
amenities for permanent habitation.  It does not include mobile homes,
temporary lodging, or sleeping rooms.
   DWELLING UNIT.  One room or rooms connected together (including apartments)
constituting a separate, independent housekeeping establishment for owner
occupancy, or rental or lease on a weekly, monthly, or longer basis, and
physically separated from any other rooms or dwelling units which may be in the
same structure, and containing independent cooking and sleeping facilities.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.  Any administrative official designated by the City
Council who shall be charged with and provided with the authority to enforce
the ordinances, regulations, codes and orders of the Planning and Zoning
Commission and the City Council.
   FLOODPLAIN.  Those areas subject to frequent periodic flooding delineated on
the soil survey as alluvial soils by the Soil Conservation Service, United
States Department of Agriculture.
   HOME OCCUPATION.  Professional offices, studios, and personal services
maintained or conducted within a dwelling. Neither the selling of any
merchandise nor processing of any product shall qualify as a home occupation. 
Home occupations include only those which meet the following performance
standards:
      (1)   Home occupations shall be incidental to the principal residential
use.
      (2)   Home occupations shall result in no exterior evidence, excepting a
permitted sign, that the dwelling is used for a nonresidential use.
      (3)   Home occupations shall not generate any atmospheric pollution,
light flashes, glare, odors, noise, vibration, or truck or other heavy traffic.
      (4)   Any activity in which the selling of any merchandise is the primary
function is not a home occupation.
      (5)   Home occupations shall occupy no more than 50% of the total floor
area of a dwelling.
   INDUSTRY.  The processing of products or raw materials.  The two categories
of industry are defined according to the following performance standards:
      (1)   HEAVY INDUSTRY.  Those industries whose processing operations
result in the outdoor storage or processing of materials or products, the
emission of any atmospheric pollution, visible light flashes or glare, odors,
or noise or vibration which may be heard or felt off the premises, or those
industries which constitute a fire or explosion hazard.
      (2)   LIGHT INDUSTRY.  Those industries whose processing operations
result in none of the above conditions.
   INFORMATION SIGN.  A sign indicating direction to a local commercial,
industrial, or other type of establishment.
   JUNKYARD.  Property used for the outdoor storage, display, or keeping of
inoperative machinery, whether or not it is capable of operation, of the
accumulation of trash, waste material, or vegetation, in a manner which is
unsightly, offensive, or not in harmony with surrounding property.
   LOT.  A parcel of land under one ownership deed to a common use or occupied
by a single principal building plus accessory structures.
   LOT LINE.  The boundary dividing a lot from a right-of-way, adjoining lot,
or other adjoining tract of land.  Front, rear, and side lot lines are self-
explanatory.
   LOT OF RECORD.  A lot which is recorded in the office of the County Clerk.
   MOBILE HOMES.  Any vehicle or similar portable structure used or so
constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon streets and as a
dwelling for one or more persons or as a permanent place of business.
   MOBILE HOME PARK.  A tract of land prepared and approved according to the
procedures in this chapter to accommodate ten or more mobile homes.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE.  A parcel of land delineated within a mobile home park
upon which may be located one mobile home.  The word SPACE, used in §
154.050 shall be held to mean MOBILE HOME SPACE.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE or USE.  A structure or use on any premises which
does not conform with all applicable provisions of this chapter but which
existed before being designated as nonconforming by the adoption or amendment
of this chapter.
   NONRETAIL COMMERCIAL.  Commercial sales and services to customers who intend
resale of the products or merchandise sold or handled. For example, nonretail
commercial includes wholesaling, warehousing, trucking terminals, and similar
commercial enterprises.
   OUTDOOR.  Refers to that which is not within a building.
   PLANNED-DEVELOPMENT PROJECT.  A complex of structures and uses planned as an
integral unit of development rather than as single structures on single lots
which includes townhouses.
   PREMISES.  A lot or other tract of land under one ownership and all the
structures on it.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING.  A buildings including covered porches, carports and
attached garages, in which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which
it is situated.  In any residential districts any dwelling shall be deemed to
be the principal building on the lot on which the same is situated.
   PROCESSING.  Manufacturing, reduction, extraction, packaging, repairing,
cleaning, and any other similar original or restorative treatment applied to
raw materials, products or personal property. Processing does not refer to the
fabrication of structures.
   PUBLIC SERVICE BUILDING.  Any building necessary for the operation and
maintenance of a utility.
   RETAIL SALES.  Sale of any product or merchandise to customers for their own
personal consumption or use, and not for resale.
   ROAD.  A traffic-carrying way.  As used in this chapter, a road may be
privately owned.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING.  Any device designed to inform or attract the attention
of persons not on the premises on which the sign is located, provided, however,
that the following shall not be included in the application of the regulations
herein:
      (1)   Signs not exceeding one square foot in area and bearing only
property numbers, post box numbers, names of occupants of premises, or other
identification of premises not having commercial connotations;
      (2)   Flags and insignia of any government except when displayed in
connection with commercial promotion;
      (3)   Legal notices, identification, informational, or directional signs
erected or required by, government bodies;
      (4)   Integral decorative or architectural features of buildings except
letters, trademarks, moving parts, or moving lights; and
      (5)   Signs directing and guiding traffic and parking on private
property, but bearing no advertising matter and four square feet or less in
area.
   SIGN, NUMBER and SURFACE AREA. 
      (1)   For the purpose of determining number of signs, a sign shall be
considered to be a single display surface or display device containing elements
organized, related, and composed to form a unit.  Where matter is displayed in
a random matter without organized relationship of elements, or where there is
reasonable doubt about the relationship of elements, each element shall be
considered to be a single sign.
      (2)   The surface area of a sign shall be computed as including the
entire area with a regular geometric form or combinations of regular geometric
forms comprising all of the display area of the sign and including all of the
elements of the matter displayed. Frames and structural members not hearing
advertising matter shall not be included in computation of the surface area.
   SIGN, OFF-SITE.  A sign other than an on-site sign.
   SIGN, ON-SITE.  A sign relating in its subject matter to the premises on
which it is located, or to products, accommodations, services, or activities on
the premises.  On-site signs do not include signs erected by the outdoor
advertising industry in the conduct of the outdoor advertising business.
   SLEEPING ROOM.  A single room rented for dwelling purposes but without the
amenities for separate and independent housekeeping.
   STREET.  Any highway or other public traffic-carrying way.  An arterial
street is any numbered federal, state, or county highway unless otherwise
designated by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   STRUCTURE.  Any combination of materials fabricated to fulfill a function in
a filed location on the land including buildings.
   TRAILER.  Any vehicle or similar portable structure used or so constructed
as to permit its being used as a conveyance to transport cargo other than
persons upon the streets and highways.  The term TRAILER does not mean MOBILE
HOME as defined and used in this chapter.
   USE.  Use broadly refers to the activities which take place on any land or
premises and also refers to the structures located thereon and designed for
those activities.
   VARIANCE.  A departure from the strict conformance with the dimension and
area regulations which must first receive the approval of the Board of
Adjustment.
   YARD.  The open space surrounding the principal building on any lot,
unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of that building from the ground to
the sky except where specifically permitted by this chapter.  Yards are further
defined as follows:
      (1)   FRONT YARD.  The portion of the yard extending the full width of
the lot and measured between the front lot line and a principal building, which
line shall be designated as the front yard line.
      (2)   REAR YARD.  The portion of the yard extending the full width of the
lot measured between the rear lot line and a parallel line tangent to the
nearest part of the principal building.
      (3)   SIDE YARD.  The portion of the yard extending from the front yard
to the rear yard and measured between the side lot lines and parallel lines
tangent to the nearest parts of the principal buildings.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
§ 154.005  APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   All existing and future structures and uses of premises within the city
shall conform with all applicable provisions of the Zoning Code.  Each zoning
district is established to permit only those uses specifically listed as
permitted, except as provided under the nonconforming provisions, and is
intended for the protection of those areas.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
§ 154.006  ZONING MAP.
   The zoning map of the city is set forth in the appendix of this chapter.
(Ord. 84-09, passed 9-4-84)
§ 154.007  CONFLICT WITH OTHER INSTRUMENTS; STRICTEST TO PREVAIL.
   In case of conflict between this chapter or any part thereof and the whole
or part of any existing or future ordinance of the city or the whole or part of
any existing or future private covenants or deeds, the most restrictive in each
case shall apply.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
§ 154.020  COORDINATION WITH SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   In all cases where the land is divided for the purpose of eventual
development of lots of any kind — residential, commercial, or industrial — the
provisions of the subdivision regulations, when adopted for the city and
amendments thereto, shall apply in addition to the provisions of this Zoning
Code.
   (B)   It is desirable that access points to the arterial streets serving all
zoning districts shall be located no more frequently than 400 to 1,200 feet
apart.  Topography, traffic volumes, and land use shall determine the exact
locations.  Access points shall also meet federal and state standards where
applicable.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
§ 154.021  PLANNED-DEVELOPMENT PROJECT REGULATIONS.
   A planned-development project may be allowed in those zoning districts where
it is designated as a permitted use under the zoning district regulations.  A
planned-development project may be under single or divided ownership.  All
planed-development projects shall be subject to the following regulations.
   (A)   Procedure.  When a planned-development project is proposed, the
procedure for subdivision approval as will be set forth in the subdivision
regulations shall be followed in its entirety even though the ownership of land
may not be divided.  In the meantime, a preliminary plan and final plan both
approved by, the Planning and Zoning Commission may establish a schedule of
reasonable fees to be charged for plan review.  The project shall be developed
according to the approved final plan.  Zoning permits and certificates of
occupancy shall be required for each building according to §§
154.216 and
154.217 of this Zoning Code.
   (B)   Uses and densities.  The uses of premises and development densities in
a planned-development project shall conform with the permitted uses and
densities of the zoning district in which it is located when it is permitted.
   (C)   Standards.  In any planned-development project, although it is
permissible to depart from literal conformance with the individual lot
dimension and area regulations, there shall be no diminution of total
equivalent lot area, parking area, and loading/unloading area requirements that
would be necessary for the equivalent amount of individual lot development with
one exception:  the Planning and Zoning Commission may allow reductions in
these requirements if the developer can satisfactorily prove that large-scale
development may permit such reductions without destroying the intent of these
regulations.
   (D)   Special conditions.  The Planning and Zoning Commission shall attach
special conditions based on all of the following standards in addition to
imposing the standards for total area, parking area, and loading and unloading
area defined in division (C) of this section.  The Planning and Zoning
Commission may also attach any other reasonable special conditions.
      (1)   Wherever there is an abrupt change in uses, such as, residential to
commercial, it is desirable that a buffer area of open space, a wall, a fence,
or protective planting be placed between them which will protect each use from
the undesirable effects of the other.
      (2)   Parking and other public areas used at night shall be adequately
lighted, and private areas shall be adequately protected from such lighting and
any other lighting from public areas.  Public streets may also require
protection from excessive glare of lighted areas.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
§ 154.022  CONDITIONAL USE REGULATIONS.
   Conditional uses may be permitted in districts as designated under the
zoning district regulations but only when specifically approved by the Board of
Adjustment.
   (A)   All districts.  The following conditional uses only may be approved in
all zoning districts:
      (1)   Service facilities of non-local public utility and private
transmissions, lines, and pipes.
      (2)   Service facilities of radio, television, and telephone transmission
structures.
      (3)   Service facilities of large utility structures and public service
buildings.
      (4)   Service facilities of expansion of railroads and appurtenances.
      (5)   Government buildings and uses.
      (6)   Churches and libraries.
   (B)   Specific districts.  Other conditional uses may be approved only in
those zoning districts where they are designated as special uses under the
zoning district regulations.
   (C)   Procedure.  In applying for a conditional use permit, the applicant
shall state a plan to the Enforcement Office and follow all procedures set
forth in §
154.216(C), procedure for zoning permit application.  The Enforcement Officer
shall refer the application to the Board of Adjustment.  The Planning and
Zoning Commission may establish a schedule of reasonable fees to be charged for
special use zoning permits.  The applicant shall meet with the Board of
Adjustment which may attach reasonable special condition to an approval of a
special use to insure that there shall be no departure from the provisions and
intent of this Zoning Code.  These special conditions may be similar to the
conditions that may be required for planned development projects.  Effect of
the special use on surrounding uses and all officially adopted plans shall be
considered in determining whether a special use shall be approved or
disapproved.  The Board of Adjustment may approve the application and may issue
a zoning permit in full conformance with §
154.216.  The conditional use, if approved, shall conform with all attached
conditions.
   (D)   Other regulations.  Payment of a fee to cover reasonable expenses
shall be required of the applicant before the issuance of the conditional use
permit.  Other regulations for conditional use permits are as follows:
      (1)   The Board may attach necessary conditions such as the limitations,
requirements that one or more things be done before the request can be
initiated or conditions of a continuing nature.  Any such conditions shall be
recorded in the Board's minutes and in the conditional use permit along with
reference to the specific section on the zoning ordinance listing the
conditional use under consideration.  The Board shall have the power to revoke
conditional use permits or variances for noncompliance with the condition(s)
thereof. Furthermore, the Board will have the right of action to compel
offending structures or uses removed at the cost of the violator and may have
judgment against the violator for such cost.
      (2)   Granting a conditional use permit does not exempt the applicant
from complying with all the requirements for this chapter and other ordinances
and regulations of the pertinent legislative body.
      (3)   A conditional use permit shall be exercised within one year from
the date of issuance within the meaning of KRS 100.237.
      (4)   The Enforcement Office shall review all conditional use permits
except for those for which all conditions have been permanently satisfied, at
least once annually and shall have the power to inspect the land or structure
where the conditional use is located in order to astern that the landowner is
complying with all the conditions which are listed on the conditional use
permit.  If the landowner is not complying with all conditions listed on the
permit, the Enforcement Officer shall report the fact in writing to the
Chairperson of the Board of Adjustment.  A report shall state specifically the
manner in which the landowner is not complying with the conditions on the
conditional use permit and a copy of the report shall be furnished to the
landowner at the same time that it is furnished to the Chairperson of the Board
of Adjustment.  Upon hearing the report as required by KRS 100.236, if the
Board finds the facts alleged to be true and that the landowner has taken no
steps to comply with them between the dates of the report and the date of the
hearing, the Board may authorize the Enforcement Officer to revoke the
conditional use permit and to take the necessary legal action to cause the
termination of the activity.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
§ 154.023  APPROVAL OF UTILITIES COMMISSION REQUIRED.
   No authorization or permit for the development of a subdivision shall be
issued in the absence of approval by the Utilities Commission or its
representative of all utility lines and adequate provisions for utilities as
required under the assisting regulations of the Utilities Commission.
(Am. Ord. 4-91, passed 4-6-81)  Penalty, see §
154.999
STRUCTURE AND USE REGULATIONS
§ 154.035  NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Nonconforming structures may remain subject to the following regulations:
   (A)   Alterations.  A nonconforming structure shall not be enlarged,
replaced, or structurally altered except in conformance with this Zoning Code. 
Any structure, however, may be restored to a safe condition if declared unsafe
by the Enforcement Officer or other official with jurisdiction, except as
provided in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Restoration.  A nonconforming structure for which restoration to a
safe condition would cost more than 50% of its replacement value shall not be
restored except in conformance with this Zoning Code.
   (C)   Construction approved prior to adoption or amendment of this Zoning
Code, proposed structures for which zoning permits have been issued prior to
their designation as nonconforming by the adoption or amendment of this Zoning
Code may be completed and used as originally intended provided they are
completed and in use one year after the date on which the zoning permit was
issued.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
§ 154.036  NONCONFORMING USES.
   Nonconforming uses may be continued subject to the following regulations:
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall not allow the enlargement or extension
of the nonconforming use beyond the scope and area of its operation after the
adoption of this chapter (area shall mean the lot upon which the nonconforming
use is being operated) nor shall the Board permit a change from one
nonconforming use to another unless the nonconforming use is the same or a more
restrictive classification.
   (B)   Discontinuance.  Whenever a nonconforming use of any premise has been
discontinued for a period of 12 months, no nonconforming use may be
reestablished on these premises.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
§ 154.037  APPROVED WATER SUPPLY AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL FOR BUILDINGS.
   It shall be unlawful to construct any building or occupy any mobile home
without water supply and sewage disposal facilities approved by the County
Health Officer and the city.  All building and mobile homes shall be connected
to the city sewer and water systems.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.038  REGULATION OF PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS.
   Unless a plan has been approved for a planned development project, only one
principal building and permitted accessory structures may be erected on any lot
of record or any conforming lot.  Temporary structures are permitted during
construction only.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
COORDINATION WITH KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES ON SPECIFIC USES
§ 154.050  MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Mobile home parks may be permitted only in those zoning districts
where they are specifically designated as a permitted uses under the zoning
district regulations.  All mobile home parks shall conform with all provisions
of the KRS 219.120 through 219.250, and shall conform with all applicable
provisions of this Zoning Code and all attached special conditions.
   (B)   It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to construct, alter, or
extend any mobile home park within the corporate limits of the city without the
application and receipt of permits from both the local health authority and the
local Enforcement Officer.  When the application is made for both the health
certificate and the building permit, the applicant must show at least the
following:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Name and legal description of the mobile home park; and
      (3)   The complete engineering plans and specifications of the proposed
park showing but not limited to the following:
         (a)   The area and dimensions of the tract of land;
         (b)   The number, location, and size of all mobile home lots; with
each lot being numbered;
         (c)   The location and width of roadways and walkways;
         (d)   The plans and specifications of all buildings, if any are
proposed, constructed or to be constructed within the mobile home park;
         (e)   The location and details of lighting and electrical systems;
         (f)   Contour lines to indicate slope and drainage;
         (g)   Location of all utilities and easements;
         (h)   Public areas such as visitors' parking, recreational areas, and
the like, if such areas are proposed;
         (i)   Large scale plan of one typical mobile home lot showing mobile
home location, automobile parking space, and the like; and
         (j)   Location of planting for landscaping purposes or as required for
protective buffer purposes as a special condition.
   (C)   All applications to the local health authority and the Enforcement
Officer shall be accompanied by the deposit of a fee of $50.
   (D)   If the local health authority and Enforcement Officer deem the
proposed plans and specifications to be in agreement with all statutes and
ordinances of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and the city, the permit shall be
issued.
   (E)   Standards.  All mobile home parks shall conform with the following
standards for development:
      (1)   All mobile home parks shall include lots for at least 25 mobile
homes.  Mobile homes are not permitted on individual lots outside of approved
mobile home parks in any district.
      (2)   Each mobile home shall be placed on a lot of at least 2,500 square
feet, and in the case of mobile homes exceeding 70 feet in length and mobile
homes that are designed as dwellings for more than one family they shall be
placed on a lot of at least 3,000 square feet.
      (3)   Each mobile home shall be connected with the public sewer.
      (4)   No mobile home shall be located closer than 30 feet to another
mobile home.
      (5)   No mobile home shall be located within 30 feet of another mobile
home, except that a minis end-to-end clearance of not less than ten feet shall
be permitted, and in an instance where the sides opposite the entrance of two
mobile homes may be reduced to not less than 20 feet.  No mobile home,
accessory building, or structure, including patios and carports shall be within
five feet of any individual space boundary.
      (6)   A road with a hard surface pavement at least 20 feet wide shall
provide direct access to each mobile home lot.  The area occupied by the road
shall not fulfill part of the area requirements for any lot. All roads shall be
designed to enable mobile homes entering the park to reverse direction without
having to back more than one mobile home length.
      (7)   A paved automobile parking area of not less than 20 feet by 20 feet
provided on every mobile home lot.
      (8)   All mobile home parks shall conform with the State Board of Health
Regulations or the city, whichever is more restrictive, which prescribe
standards for water supply, sewage disposal, and other facilities.  Each mobile
home park shall be adequately drained so that no mobile home lot shall be
subject to the collection of storm water.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71; Am. Ord. 93-005, passed 7-13-93)  Penalty, see §
154.999
Cross-reference:
   Mobile Homes and Mobile Homes Parks, see
Chapter 152
LOT AND YARD REGULATIONS
§ 154.060  OBSTRUCTIONS TO VISION AT STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   Within the area defined by the intersection of any two right-of-way lines of
streets or railroads and a straight line intersecting those two right-of-way
lines at points 30 feet from their intersection, no obstructions to vision
between a height of 2½ and 12 feet above the imaginary plane defined by those
three points of intersection are permitted.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
§ 154.061  FRONT-YARD REGULATIONS FOR CORNER, DOUBLE-FRONTAGE LOTS.
   Corner lots and double-frontage lots shall, on both of the adjacent streets,
meet the front-yard regulations of the district in which they are located.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
§ 154.062  APPLICATION OF YARDS TO ONE BUILDING ONLY.
   No part of a yard required for any building may be included as fulfilling
the yard requirements for an adjacent building.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
§ 154.063  USE OF YARDS FOR ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   No accessory buildings are permitted in front yards.  They are permitted in
rear or side yards according to the dimension and area regulations.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.064  SCREENING REQUIREMENTS.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission may require proper screening whenever two
different zones adjoin wherever a change in classification is requested.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
VEHICLE REGULATIONS
§ 154.075  OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES FOR AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   Existing parking space.  Existing off-street parking provided for any
building or use at the time of adoption of this Zoning Code shall not
thereafter be reduced unless it exceeds the requirements of this chapter.  Any
existing building or use not provided with conforming parking space shall be
provided with off-street parking space in conformance with this chapter at the
time of any structural alteration of the building or expansion of the use. 
Parking for commercial purposes must be provided in commercial zones.
   (B)   Required off-street parking space.  When any building is built or any
use of land is initiated, they shall be provided with sufficient off-street
parking space on the premises so that no automobile parking on any street will
result from the normal activity.  If the off-street parking capacity is
exceeded and street parking is generated more than six times during a six-month
period, this shall be considered as resulting from normal activity, and
additional off-street parking shall be provided.  The Board of Adjustment shall
interpret the amount of parking space required for any building or use,
assisted by the following standards whenever the Enforcement Officer is unable
to apply the following standards literally or when he determines a parking
space deficiency according to the standard above.  In either case he shall
apply to the Board for an original interpretation.
   (C)   Parking space.  For the purpose of this chapter, an off-street parking
space shall consist of a space adequate for parking an automobile with room for
opening doors on both sides, together with properly related access to a public
street or alley and maneuvering room.  Required off-street parking areas for
three or more automobiles shall have individual spaces marked, and shall be so
designed, maintained, and regulated that no parking or maneuvering incidental
to parking shall be on any public street, walk, or alley, and so that any
automobile may be parked and unparked without moving another.  All parking
spaces shall be shown on a plat drawn to scale and submitted to the Planning
and Zoning Commission for review.
   (D)   Off-street parking standards.  The following standards compromise the
minimum off-street parking requirements for the several types of building and
uses listed:
      (1)   Dwelling:  one parking space per dwelling unit.
      (2)   Mobile home park:  two automobile parking areas shall be provided
on every mobile home space, plus one parking area for every four spaces in the
park. (See §
154.050(E)(7) of this chapter)
      (3)   Indoor retail businesses:  one parking space for each 100 square
feet of commercial floor area plus one space for every truck operated by the
business, in a Central Business District.  For such businesses in a
Neighborhood or General Business District, there shall be provided four spaces
for the first 1,000 square feet of total floor area, plus one additional space
for each 150 square feet of such floor area.  For such businesses in the
Highway Business District, C-4, there shall be provided three and one half
spaces per 1,000 square foot of ground floor area, shown on a plat presented to
the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (4)   Tourist homes, motels, or hotels:  one parking space for each
sleeping room or suite including that of the owner or manager of residence on
the premises.
      (5)   Industrial plants:  one parking space for every two employees at
maximum employment on a single shift plus one space for every truck operated by
the plant.
      (6)   Places for public assembly, institutions, and recreational
facilities:  unless otherwise stated in this section, one parking space for
every five persons, based on maximum capacity.
      (7)   Hospitals:  one space for each four patient beds, exclusive of
bassinets, plus one space for each staff or visiting doctor, plus space for
each three employees including nurses, plus adequate area for the parking of
emergency vehicles.
      (8)   Medical or dental clinics or offices:  five spaces par doctor plus
one space for each two employees.
      (9)   Sanatoriums, convalescent or nursing homes:  one space for each six
patient beds plus one space for each staff or visiting doctor plus one space
for each two employees including nurses.
      (10)   Community center, theater, auditorium, church sanctuary: one
parking space for each four seats, based on maximum seating capacity.
      (11)   Convention hall, lodge, club, library, museum, place of amusement
or recreation:  one parking space for each 50 square feet of floor area used
for assembly or recreation in the building.
      (12)   Office building:  one parking space for each 300 square feet of
gross floor area in the building, exclusive of the area used for storage,
utilities and building services.
      (13)   Stadium or sports arenas:  one space for each four seats.
      (14)   Bowling alleys:  five parking spaces for each alley.
      (15)   Mortuaries or funeral homes:  one space for each 50 square feet of
floor space in the slumber rooms, parlors, or individual funeral service rooms.
      (16)   Warehouses and storage buildings:  Sufficient parking space to
accommodate employees and the loading and unloading of materials.
      (17)   Additional parking standards:  The Board of Adjustment may raise
the standards listed above when necessary to conform with division (B) of this
section and shall use similar criteria of floor area, employment, or capacity
to interpret standards for buildings and uses not specifically listed above.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71; Am. Ord. 2003-002, passed 1-30-03)
§ 154.076  OFF-STREET LOADING, UNLOADING SPACES FOR TRUCKS.
   All buildings and uses which generate regular trucking traffic shall be
provided with sufficient off-street loading and unloading space on the premises
so that they will generate no loading or unloading activity on their require
parking spaces or on any street.  The Board of Adjustment shall interpret the
amount of loading and unloading space required for any building or use whenever
the Enforcement Officer is unable to apply this standard literally and applies
to the Board for an original interpretation.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
§ 154.077  ARRANGEMENT, AND SURFACING OF SPACES; PROOF OF AVAILABILITY.
   (A)   Arrangement of off-street parking space.  Off-street parking space
required for any building or use may be located within walking distance of 500
feet from the premises it serves but detached therefrom or may be consolidated
into a large parking area serving other buildings and uses, either of which
arrangements must be approved by the Board of Adjustment.  The Enforcement
Officer shall apply to the Board for an original interpretation when zoning
permits are requested in such cases.  The Board may not authorize the total
amount of parking space required for all buildings and uses to be diminished
except as follows:  If a consolidated parking area serves buildings or uses
which do not generate automobile parking at the same times, such as, churches
and stores, the total parking space may be diminished to the maximum required
by those buildings and uses which do generate the parking of automobiles at the
same time.
   (B)   Proof of availability.  The Board of Adjustment may require a plat,
deed and any other proof necessary to show that required parking space, if
located off the premises it serves, is controlled by and available to the
applicant for a zoning permit.
   (C)   Surfacing of parking, loading and unloading space. Parking, loading
and unloading spaces and the access thereto shall be surfaced in a manner
adequate to eliminate dust and mud.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
§ 154.078  PARKING AND STORAGE OF CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   Automobiles, vehicles, trailers of any type without current license plates
shall not be parked or stored on any property in a Residential District, R-1,
R-2, R-3, other than in completely enclosed buildings.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
EXCEPTIONS
§ 154.090  USE EXCEPTIONS.
   Several types of structures and uses are permitted in all districts even
though they are not listed as permitted uses under the zoning district
regulations.  These structures and uses are listed as follows:
   (A)   No zoning permit or certificate of occupancy required for:
      (1)   Local public utility distributing and collecting structures such as
pipes and transmission lines, transformers, meters, and the like.  Large
utility structures such as substations are permitted only as special uses.
      (2)   Public streets and all official appurtenances necessary for traffic
direction and safety.  All street and traffic-control signs shall conform to
the code established and adopted by the Kentucky Department of Highways.
      (3)   Private drives, private parking areas, and the parking of vehicles
incidental to the principal use on the same premises.
      (4)   Real estate signs not larger than ten square feet located on the
premises or subdivision being advertised for sale or for rent.
      (5)   Signs not over four square feet in area identifying permitted home
occupations or the renting of sleeping rooms on the same premises.
      (6)   Horticulture and landscaping of any premises: fences and other
normal accessory uses.
   (B)   Zoning permit only required; no certificate of occupancy:
      (1)   Local information signs.  All local information signs shall meet
the following standards:
         (a)   Twenty square feet in area is the maximum size permitted for
local information signs, and no linear dimension shall be greater than ten
feet.
         (b)   Six feet from the ground to the top of the sign is the maximum
height permitted for local information signs.
         (c)   Local information signs must be located within three miles along
any street from the establishment to which they are indicating directions.
         (d)   Local information signs must be located off the right-of-way and
at least 100 feet from all intersecting street rights-of-way.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.091  HEIGHT EXCEPTION.
   Height regulations apply to buildings and portions of buildings occupied
regularly by human beings.  They do not apply to structure or portions of
buildings such as radio towers, ornamental spires, water towers, silos, and
flag poles which are not occupied regularly by human beings except for
maintenance unless otherwise stipulated in this Zoning Code.  No structure
shall exceed 75 feet without approval of the Board of Adjustment.  The Board of
Adjustment shall interpret whether or not height regulations apply upon
application by the Enforcement Officer in doubtful cases.  Federal Aviation
Agency or state aviation height regulations in the vicinity of an airport shall
take precedence over all other height regulations.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)  Penalty, see §
154.999
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 154.110  ESTABLISHMENT.
   The city is divided into zoning districts as shown on the zoning map, and
these districts are designated as follows:
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
      R-1   Density
      R-2   Medium Density
      R-3   High Density
   COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
      C-1   Neighborhood Business
      C-2   General Business
      C-3   Central Business
      C-4   Highway Business
   INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
      I-I   Light Industry
      1-2   Heavy Industry
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
§ 154.111  INTERPRETATION OF ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The following rules shall be used to interpret the exact location of the
zoning district boundaries shown on the zoning map:
   (A)   Where a zoning district boundary follows a street or railroad, the
center line of the street or railroad right-of-way is the boundary of the
district.
   (B)   Where a zoning district boundary approximately follows a lot or
property line, that line is the boundary of the district.
   (C)   Where a zoning district boundary follows a stream or the shore of a
body of water, that stream or shore line is the boundary of the district.
   (D)   Where a zoning district boundary does not clearly follow any of the
features mentioned above, its exact location on the ground shall be determined
by measurement according to the map scale.
   (E)   Unassigned and new areas coming under the zoning regulating authority
shall be temporarily zoned R-1. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall study
the annexed or unassigned area and make recommendations within 30 days to City
Council for permanent classification.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
Cross-reference:
   Zoning Map, see
App., Ch. 154
§ 154.112  SCHEDULE OF DIMENSION AND AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Schedule of dimension and area regulations.
                   Minimum   Maximum
                   Lot Area  Percentage Minimum
         Maximum   When      of Lot     Lot Width Minimum Minimum    Minimum
District Height of Serviced  Area Which At        Side    Rear Yard  Front Yard
         Buildings By Public May Be     Building  Yards   (Feet)     Setback
                   Sanitary  Covered by Line      (Feet)             (Feet)1
                   Sewer     All        (Feet)
                   (Sq. Ft.) Buildings
                   Minimum    Maximum
                   Lot Area   Percentage
         Maximum   When       of Lot                                                     Minimum   Minimum
District Height of Serviced   Area Which Minimum Lot Width At Building Line (Feet)       Side      Rear     Minimum Front Yard Setback (Feet)1
         Buildings By Public  May Be                                                     Yards     Yard
                   Sanitary   Covered by                                                 (Feet)    (Feet)
                   Sewer (Sq. All
                   Ft.)       Buildings
R-1      30 feet   7,500      50%        75                                              12        25       25
                                                                                         10        20
                                                                                         Accessory
                                                                                         buildings or other
                                                                                         impediments to
                                                                                         access by
                                                                                         emergency vehicles
                                                                                         shall be ten feet
R-2      30 feet2  6,000      50%        50 single family dwelling — 100 double family from all side lot  25
                                         units                                           lines and from all
                                                                                         other lot lines
                                                                                         where less than
                                                                                         ten feet of
                                                                                         unobstructed
                                                                                         access by fire or
                                                                                         emergency vehicles
                                                                                         would be infringed
                   5,000
                   1,000
         3 stories additional
R-3      (30       sq. ft.    75%        50                                              10        15       25
         feet)3    for each
                   dwelling
                   unit
                                                                                         20 on
                                                                                         side
                                                                                         adjacent
C-1      1 story   NA         75%        50                                              to a      25       15
                                                                                         different
                                                                                         zon-ing
                                                                                         district
                                                                                         30 but 50
                                                                                         on side   50 if
                                                                                         adjacent  backing  15C-350 feet
C-2      —       NA         50%        150                                             to a      on a     5 stories—NANA Twice the in- dicated set-back on side adjacent to
                                                                                         residen-  residen- different district which- ever is greaterNANA
                                                                                         tial      tial
                                                                                         zoning    district
                                                                                         district
C-4      30 feet   —        30%        100                                             15        NA       15
I-1      50 feet   —        30%        100                                             15        20       —
I-2      100 feet  —        30%        100                                             25        25       —
Notes
1.   In no instance will the front yard setback be allowed for meeting the parking requirements set forth in this chapter.
2.   Height of buildings may be increased up to 50 feet provided each side yard is increased by the same amount over the required yard minimum that the building height is
increase over the three story height maximum.
3.   Residential uses in Commercial zones must conform with the dimension and area regulations of the R-2 zone.  Plus one foot of additional height for each linear foot of
added setback on all sides, to the maximum height of 50 feet.
*   Plus one foot of additional height for each liner foot of added setback on all sides, to a maximum height of 50 feet.
NA   Not applicable
 
   (B)   Additional requirements.  The following are imposed in the case of the
following transition fees:
      (1)   In retail and commercial districts parking areas which adjoin a
residential zone must be shielded by walls, shrubs, or trees along the boundary
line.
      (2)   In industrial districts adjoining a residential zone, a 100-foot
wide strip along the boundary line cannot be used for actual manufacture but
must be reserved for less objectionable uses, for example, an administrative
building or parking lot.
      (3)   In nonresidential lots which are back to back with residential, 30
feet deep rear yards are prescribed, though a single story rising not rare than
23 feet above curb level may extend to the rear lot line.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71; Am. Ord. 90-21, passed 12-11-90)
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.125  APPLICABLE REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations set forth in divisions (A) through (D) of this
section shall apply in residential districts in accordance with the
specifications given in the Summary of Zoning District Dimensions:
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Single-family dwellings in R-1, R-2, or R-3 districts.
      (2)   Double-family dwellings in R-2 or R-3 districts.
      (3)   Multiple-family dwellings in R-2 or R-3 districts.
   (B)   Accessory structures and uses permitted.
      (1)   Private pools, fenced or covered so as to prevent unauthorized or
accidental use by children.
      (2)   Garage or other building not used as a dwelling and accessory to
the principal use.
      (3)   Renting of no more than three sleeping rooms in any one building.
      (4)   Home occupations.  Permitted home occupations may be identified on
the premises according to §
154.004 of this chapter.  No displays or changes in facade shall indicate from
the exterior that the building is being utilized partly for a nonresidential
purpose.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Nonprofit public or private facilities such as schools, churches,
cemeteries, libraries, parks, recreational facilities, hospitals, institutions,
and the like.
      (2)   Mobile home parks in conformance with §
154.050, except that no mobile home parks may be located in an R-1 district.
      (3)   Planned-development project for residential use only.  The
procedure under §
154.021 shall be followed.
   (D)   Dimensions and area regulations for lots and structures.  The
regulations on the dimensions and area for lots and structures are set forth §
154.112.  The applicable regulations shall be observed in all residential
areas.
   (E)   Uses expressly prohibited.  Oil or gas wells, or any drilling for oil
or gas.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71; Am. Ord. 90-07, passed 4-10-90; Am. Ord.  94-010,
passed 12-13-94)  Penalty, see §
154.999
COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.135  APPLICABLE REGULATIONS.
   The regulations set forth in this subchapter shall apply in commercial
districts as indicated.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
§ 154.136  C-1 NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   This district is to be used for retail trade and personal service
enterprises which will meet the regular needs of the occupants of surrounding
residential areas.
   (A)   Permitted uses. 
      (1)   Retail sales of convenience goods, grocery stores, drug stores,
barber shops, dry cleaning establishments, and the like.
      (2)   Consumer services.  Processing is performed as a consumer service
for retail customers served on the premises.
      (3)   Office buildings and apartments.
      (4)   Construction shall conform to the full intent of a neighborhood
commercial establishment and be limited to 2,500 square feet.
      (5)   Planned-development project for commercial and apartment use only. 
The procedure under §
154.021 shall be folded.
      (6)   Residential uses shall be required to conform with the R-
2 Residential Density and area requirements.
   (B)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Public facilities such as libraries, churches, parks, recreational
facilities, hospitals, institutions, and the like.
      (2)   Buildings exceeding 2,500 square feet.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
§ 154.137  C-2 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   This district is to be used for all uses enumerated in division (A) of this
section.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Places of amusement and assembly, offices, hotels, motels, used car
lots, garages, and other motor vehicle services of a similar or like nature.
      (2)   Any retail business or retail service as defined in §
154.004.
      (3)   Any manufacturing or processing establishment that does not create
dust, smoke, noise, or odor outside the lot on which it is located and
employing not more than ten persons, including the owner or operator.
      (4)   Any accessory use or building customarily incidental to the above
permitted uses.
   (B)   Uses expressly prohibited.
      (1)   Any business which is primarily of a wholesale storage or
warehousing nature.
      (2)   Animal hospital, coal or lumberyard, dairy, bottling works, dry-
cleaning plant, electric welding, gasoline, oil, or alcohol storage above the
level of the ground and exceeding 500 gallons, ice plant, live animal storage,
laundry or bakery cloying more than five persons, and any other similar or like
use determined by the Board of Adjustment to be detrimental to the retail
shopping nature of this district. 
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.138  C-3 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   This district is to be used for all uses permitted in C-1 and C-2 districts
and for the uses enumerated in division (A) of this section.
   (A)   Permitted uses.  Any use permitted in the C-2 district or not
expressly prohibited in division (B) of this section, is permitted in this
district.
   (B)   Uses expressly prohibited.  As provided by §
154.137(A) of this chapter.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.139  C-4 HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Motel, office buildings, and professional services.
      (2)   Restaurants and cafes.
      (3)   Motor vehicle service stations and other automobile related
establishments.
      (4)   Outdoor advertising signs, billboards, and the like.  Flashing or
changing lights which might be confused with traffic-control are not permitted.
      (5)   Planned-development projects for commercial use only.  The
procedure under §
154.021 shall be followed.
      (6)   Gift, handicraft and novelty shops.
   (B)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Nonprofit public or private facilities such as schools, churches,
cemeteries, libraries, parks, recreational facilities, hospitals, institutions,
and the like.
      (2)   Any use which will not impede in the flow of traffic on U.S. 23 may
be brought before the Planing Commission for acceptance as a conditional use.
   (C)   Prohibited uses.  All uses not heretofore permitted are hereby
profited in this district.  In doubtful cases, the Board of Adjustments will
make a determination.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71; am. Ord. 72-04, passed 12-5-72)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.140  ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   Dwelling units for the owner or guardian of the commercial property
occupying the same building as the principal commercial use.  In no case should
there be more than one dwelling unit per building.
   (B)   Garage or other building not used as a dwelling and accessory to the
principal use.
   (C)   Wholesale of merchandise or services which is clearly incident and
subordinate to the principal retail use on the premises.
   (D)   This section shall apply to all the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
§ 154.141  SPECIAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   There shall be no outdoor storage of merchandise and no outdoor
processing in any commercial district unless authorized as a conditional use. 
All above ground structures accessory to any outdoor use shall be located at
least feet from front lot lines.
   (B)   All uses in commercial districts shall exhibit performance standards
equal to or better than those which define light industry.
   (C)   This section shall apply to all the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
§ 154.142  DIMENSION AND AREA REGULATIONS.
   The regulations of the dimensions and area for lots and structures are set
forth in the §
154.112. The applicable regulations shall be observed in all commercial
districts except that residential uses in the C-1 zone shall be required to
conform with the R-2 residential area and density requirements.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.155  APPLICABLE REGULATIONS.
   The regulations set forth in this subchapter shall apply in industrial
districts as indicated.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
§ 154.156  I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRY.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Nonretail commercial.
      (2)   The manufacture, fabrication or processing of any commodity or
product that can meet the requirements of the definition of light industry in §
154.004 of this chapter.
      (3)   The retail sale of any product or article manufactured, fabricated
or processed in accordance with division (B) of this section.
      (4)   The retail sale of construction materials including but not limited
to lime, rock, gravel, and articles of a similar or a like nature.
      (5)   Freighting or trucking yard or terminal.
      (6)   Research laboratories.
   (B)   Conditional use.  Any other use, which can be shown to the Board of
Adjustment, that will meet the requirements of the definition of light
industry, as found in §
154.004, but not included or prohibited in this section, may be located in this
district with the approval of the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
§ 154.157  I-2 HEAVY INDUSTRY.
   (A)   Any use permitted in the I-1 district.
   (B)   Any use which the requirements of the definition of heavy industry in
§
154.004 of this chapter.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
§ 154.158  ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   Signs identifying the industrial activity on the same premises.
   (B)   Dwelling units for caretaker or watchman employed by the industrial
firm.
   (C)   Garages and other buildings and uses accessory to the principle use.
   (D)   Planned-development project for industrial use only. The procedure
under §
154.021 shall be followed.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
§ 154.159  CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Sanitary landfill for refuse disposal in conformance with the
standards set forth in the Kentucky Department of Health Manual SE-M-4,
Recommendations for the Disposal of Refuse by the Sanitary Landfill Method. 
Approval of the sanitary landfill State Board of Health must also be obtained
before it may be permitted as a special use.
   (B)   Extraction, storing, and processing of minerals or raw materials. The
Planning and Zoning Commission may attach special conditions necessary to
protect neighboring premises from the undesirable effects of such operation. 
The Planning and Zoning Commission shall require a written agreement from the
owners of the operation that, upon termination, the land shall be reclaimed as
nearly to its original state as is practical.
   (C)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may require agreement that topsoil
shall be replaced, vegetative cover replaced, and other conditions conformed
with.  This agreement shall be filed permanently with the applications for a
conditional use.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
§ 154.160  DIMENSION AND AREA REGULATIONS.
   The regulations on the dimensions and area for lots and structures are set
forth in §
154.112.  The applicable regulations shall be observed in all industrial
districts.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
SIGNS; ADVERTISING
§ 154.170  SIGNS AND OUTDOOR ADVERTISING.
   (A)   The provisions of this section are made applicable to all zone
districts in §§
154.135 through §
154.160 unless otherwise specified.
   (B)   Any outdoor commercial dwelling or promotional signs (as defined in §
154.004) which is capable of free standing (billboard) shall be permitted only
in zones I-1, I-2, and C-4 and shall be considered a business use.
   (C)   All signs and other advertising devices (with the exclusion of
billboards) are permitted in zones C-1, C-2, C-3, C-4, I-1, and I-2, provided,
however, that they meet all the requirements and regulations that apply to that
zone and that they also shall only advertise or make known a use or uses that
are conducted on the premises that the sign is located.
   (D)   Unless expressly stated hereafter, no advertising device shall be
placed, fixed, secured, or by any other method, attached to any structure or
any parcel of land in a residential zone.
   (E)   Only one sign may be erected or, by any other method, attached to a
building in a zone in which it is permitted, which advertises the primary
service, commodity, function or nature, of the business or industry that it
advertises.  This sign or display shall not exceed 12 square feet and shall not
be closer than ten feet to the street right-of-way.
   (F)   In any residential zone, a sign which advertises a business or
profession, which meets the requirements for a home occupation shall not exceed
two square feet in a area and shall be located no closer than five feet to the
street right-of-way and shall not obstruct the view of traffic or operators of
a motor vehicle.
   (G)   Unless specifically specified above, any individual, whether person or
firm, that erects or by any other method, constructs a sign or advertising
device, shall apply for and obtain a building permit that shows that the sign
or device is in conformance with this chapter.
   (H)   No sign, design, or device which resembles or can be reasonably be
confused with a traffic or directional sign erected by the proper state or
local officials for the public information or safety is allowed.
   (I)   No sign, design, or device that constitutes a nuisance either because
of its content or operation shall be allowed.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.171  REGULATIONS OF SIGNS OR ADVERTISING DEVICES BY ZONES.
   (A)   C-1 Neighborhood Commercial District.
      (1)   No billboards are to be erected, or by any other means, attached to
any premise in this zone.
      (2)   Only one sign or device indicating the name and/or type of business
conducted will be permitted.
      (3)   These signs shall not exceed 20 square feet unless they are
detached from the building and not less than ten feet from the nearest right-
of-way line and written approval is granted signifying it as a special use. 
Such approval will be granted only upon the determination that the sign will
not be a detriment to the surrounding area.
      (4)   No sign which causes light and glare problems for neighboring
residential properties shall be permitted.
   (B)   C-2 General Business District.
      (1)   Any sign permitted and/or not expressly prohibited in this section
is allowed in this zone.
      (2)   Signs not larger than 30 square feet and not more than one per
commercial establishment are permitted.
   (C)   C-3 Central Business District.
      (1)   No billboards are to be erected or attached to any building.
      (2)   Only one sign or device for business will be permitted.
      (3)   Signs shall not be larger than 30 square feet.
      (4)   No sign will be allowed which causes light or glare problems for
neighboring residential properties.
      (5)   Signs shall not encroach or hang over the public sidewalk or right-
of-way more than 12 inches.
      (6)   Nonconforming signs shall be removed within 24 months from the date
of the enactment of this chapter.  Any signs that are replaced during the 24-
month period from the date of this chapter shall conform to this chapter.
   (D)   C-4 Highway Business District.
      (1)   All signs permitted in division (C) above.
      (2)   A written release from the restrictions of division (C) above may
be obtained provided the following requirements are met:
         (a)   No sign project more than seven feet from building to which it
is attached;
         (b)   The detailed sign shall be at least 25 feet from the nearest
right-of-way and at least, ten feet from the side lot lines; and
         (c)   The sign shall not exceed a total of 100 square, feet.
      (3)   This written release will only be granted when determination that
the sign would not deter any of the surrounding areas.
      (4)   Billboards may be included in this zone.
   (E)   I-1 Light Industrial District.
      (1)   Signs permitted in zone C-4; and
      (2)   The provisions of division (D)(2) above are applicable to this zone
provided that all yard requirements and setback regulations for this zone are
met.
   (F)   I-2 Heavy Industrial District.  All provisions of division (E) above
apply to this zone.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71; Am. Ord. 90-10, passed 6-12-90)  Penalty, see §
154.999
FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT
§ 154.185  INTENT.
   The specific intent of this district is to impose certain restrictions
necessary for the floodplain area in order to ensure the health, safety and
welfare of the residents of the community to:
   (A)   Control the erection of buildings in areas unfit for human usage by
reason of danger from flooding, unsanitary conditions and other hazards.
   (B)   Minimize the danger to public health by protecting the water supply
and promoting safe and sanitary drainage.
   (C)   Permit only those uses in the floodplain compatible to the
preservation of natural conditions which are conducive to the maintenance of
constant rates of water flow throughout the year by withholding rapid water
runoff contributing to downstream flooding and providing area for groundwater
absorption for maintenance of the subsurface water supply.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
Cross-reference:
   Flood damage prevention, see
Ch. 151
§ 154.186  PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   All agricultural uses which would not endanger the life or permanent
structures involved in carrying out this form of employment such as grazing,
farming, livestock and poultry raising, and the like.
   (B)   Dams, power plants, water measurement and control facilities and
utility transmission lines.
   (C)   Parking areas.
   (D)   Open recreation uses such as parks, playgrounds, sports fields, boat
landings and fishing areas.
   (E)   Wildlife preservations.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
§ 154.187  USES EXPRESSLY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Residential uses.
   (B)   Any on-site sewage disposal system.
(C)   Dumps, sanitary land fills and junkyards.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)  Penalty, see §
154.999
SPECIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 154.200  FARM DISTRICTS.
   May be of the exclusive type or the cumulative type.  Agriculture is the
primary use.  Other uses are secondary and accessory.  Also permitted can be
certain public and semi-public uses.  Cumulative-type farm zoning districts can
often serve as transition zones from agriculture to residential uses, including
subdivisions.  The transition may be facilitated by lowering lot size
requirements.  Usual minimum tract requirements for farm districts range from
ten to 80 acres.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
§ 154.201  FORESTRY DISTRICTS.
   Forestry Districts are generally located in the Northwestern United States
developed from large acreage which is marginal for farming but valuable for
forestry.  Zoning is of the exclusive type.  Such zones add to the recreational
attraction of the area.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
§ 154.202  RECREATIONAL DISTRICTS.
   Primary use is for variety of recreational activities.  This type of
district can be used to protect and preserve mountainous, riverbank, lakeshore,
or other areas that have natural or potential recreational features.  Permitted
uses can be agriculture, forestry, institutional uses, and limited commercial
recreational uses.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
§ 154.203  WATERSHED DISTRICTS.
   Watershed districts reserve mountainous and hilly land for water production,
forestry, wildlife, and recreation.  Their purpose is to protect water sources
and to avoid loss from improper use of land that has high water tables and is
subject to periodic flooding.  Forestry, agriculture, and grazing are deemed
desirable principal uses.  The types of recreation that need large acreages are
suitable secondary uses.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
§ 154.204  OPEN-SPACE DISTRICTS.
   Open-space districts are used to reserve rural areas on the urban fringe for
future generations, to provide permanent open space.  Usually crop and tree
farming may be allowed along with grazing and recreational activities.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
§ 154.205  LANDMARKS OR PRESERVATION DISTRICTS.
   Such districts are used to protect buildings and places that are of
historical or cultural importance.  Such districts help to safeguard our
heritage and serve cultural educational and recreational ends.  The regulations
pertain to buildings and structures of some significant architectural period. 
The concern is with exterior features only, mainly design, arrangement,
texture, materials, and color.  No changes can be made without approval from a
review board.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.215  ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The City Council shall designate and appoint an Enforcement Officer or
officers who shall be charged with and provided with the authority to enforce
the ordinances, regulations, and orders of the Planning and Zoning Commission
and City Council and to issue zoning permits and certificates of occupancy. 
The Enforcement Officer(s), in the performance of their duties and functions,
may enter upon any land and make examinations and surveys that do not occasion
damage or injury to private property and present his findings to the Planing
Commission.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)
§ 154.216  ZONING PERMITS.
   (A)   Required prior to construction or alteration.  It shall be unlawful to
commence construction or alteration of any structure until the Enforcement
Officer has issued a zoning permit authorizing such work except as specified in
§§
154.090 and division (B) of this section.  The City Council may establish a
schedule of reasonable fees to be charged for the issuance of zoning permits.
   (B)   Exceptions.  No zoning permit or certificate of occupancy shall be
required in the following cases:
      (1)   Recurring maintenance work regardless of cost.
      (2)   Installation of required improvements according to an approved
preliminary subdivision plat or planned-development plat.
      (3)   Those structures and uses erected by §
154.090.
   (C)   Procedure.
      (1)   Application.  In applying to the Enforcement Officer for a zoning
permit, the applicant shall submit a plan along with the application, drawn to
scale, showing the dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the outside
dimensions of all structures to be constructed or altered and all existing
structures, the use of all structures, yard depths, and any other information
necessary for determining conformance with this Zoning Code.  The County Health
Officers certificate approving proposed water and sewerage facilities must
accompany applications according to §
154.037 of this Zoning Code.
      (2)   Permanent file.  The Enforcement Officer shall keep a permanent
file of all applications with accompanying plans and all permits issued.
      (3)   Issuance.  If the proposed construction or alteration conforms wig
all applicable provisions of this Zoning Code and all other applicable
ordinances, regulations and codes, the Enforcement Officer shall issue a zoning
permit authorizing such construction or alteration.  If the proposed
construction or alteration fails to conform, the Enforcement Officer shall
refuse to issue a zoning permit and shall deliver written notice to the
applicant stating the reason for the refusal. The Enforcement Officer shall act
upon applications for zoning permits within one week from the date of their
submission.
      (4)   Validity. The issuance of a zoning permit by the Enforcement
Officer shall not waive any provision of this Zoning Code.
      (5)   Duration.  A zoning permit shall become void six months from the
date of issuance unless substantial progress has been made by that date on the
construction or alteration authorized therein.  A zoning permit may be renewed
without fee upon review by the Enforcement Officer before it becomes void.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.217  CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Required prior to occupancy, change of use, and under other
conditions.  It shall be unlawful to use any newly erected or altered structure
or to change the use of any premises even though no structure was erected or
altered until the Enforcement Officer has issued a certificate of occupancy
authorizing such use except as specified in §§
154.090 and
154.216(B) of this Zoning Code.  The Planning and Zoning Commission may
authorize the Enforcement Officer to require that nonconforming uses or any
existing uses shall maintain valid certificates of occupancy identifying them
as nonconforming or permitted uses as applicable.  The City Council may
establish a schedule of reasonable fees to be charged for the issuance of
certificates of occupancy.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Application.  In applying to the Enforcement Officer for a
certificate of occupancy, the applicant shall notify the Enforcement Officer in
writing of the date on which the use of any new or altered structure or the new
use of any premises will be ready to commence.  The County Health Officer's
certificate must accompany applications according to §
154.037 of this Zoning Code.
      (2)   Permanent file.  The Enforcement Officer shall keep a permanent
file of all applications and all certificates issued.
      (3)   Issuance.  If the newly erected or altered structure and the new
use of premises conform with all applicable provisions of this Zoning Code and
all other applicable ordinances, regulations, and codes, the Enforcement
Officer shall issue a certificate of occupancy authorizing the use thereof.  If
the structure or use fails to conform, the Enforcement Officer shall refuse to
issue a certificate of occupancy and shall deliver written notice to the
applicant stating the reasons for the refusal.  The Enforcement Officer shall
insect a new structure or the premises for which a new use is proposed and
shall issue or refuse a certificate of occupancy within five days after the
date on which the new use is ready to commence. 
      (4)   Validity.  The issuance of a certificate of occupancy by the
Enforcement Officer shall not waive any provision of this Zoning Code.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71) 
§ 154.218  BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Appointment and organization.  A Board of Adjustment (hereinafter
known as “the Board”) shall be appointed and organized in conformance with the
KRS 100.217.
   (B)   Powers and duties.  The Board shall have the following powers and
duties:
      (1)   Bylaws.  The Board shall adopt bylaws in compliance with KRS
Chapter 100 for its own government.
      (2)   Administrative review.  The Board shall hear and decide upon
appeals from decisions of the Enforcement Officer.  The Board shall decide on
questions involving literal interpretations of this Zoning Code, shall
interpret the exact location of district boundaries according to §
154.111, shall interpret the amount of off-street parking, loading and
unloading space required according to §§
154.075 and
154.077, and shall make only those other interpretations and decision
specifically delegated to it by the provisions of this Zoning Code.
      (3)   Conditional uses.  The Board shall have the authority to approve or
disapprove applications for conditional uses in conformance with §
154.022 of this Zoning Code.
      (4)   Variances.  The Board may vary the strict application of only the
dimension and area regulations provided that unique conditions prevent strict
conformance and would this deprive the owner of the reasonable use of his
premises.  The Board shall not grant a variance unless all of the following
general conditions are met:
         (a)   Physical conditions are unique to the lot or structure in
question  and do not apply to neighboring lots or structures in the same
district.
         (b)   Strict application of the dimension and area regulations would
deprive the owner of the reasonable use of his lot or structure equivalent to
the use of neighboring lots and structures in the same district.
         (c)   The unique conditions are not the result of actions taken after
the adoption of this Zoning Code.
         (d)   The granting of the variance will be in harmony with the intent
of this Zoning Code and will not be detrimental to any neighboring premises.
      (5)   Special Variances.  The Board may grant a variance when the
following special condition is present in lieu of the four general conditions
listed above.  If an undeveloped lot of record existing before October 1, 1968,
is too small to allow conformance with the dimension and area regulations and
if the owner has owned no adjoining land since October 1, 1968, the Board may
grant a variance to allow the owner of the reasonably use of his premises. 
When adjoining undersized lots of record are under the same ownership, they
shall not be used or sold separately except in conformance with the dimension
and area regulations of this Zoning Code.
   (C)   Procedure.  An application to the Board for an original interpretation
or decision or an appeal from a decision of the Enforcement Officer shall be
made in writing on forms prescribed by the Board. An appeal must be filed
within 60 days after the Enforcement Officer has refused a zoning permit or
certificate of occupancy, or the right to appeal shall be waived.  The
Enforcement Officer shall transmit to the Board the complete  record of the
decision appealed.  The Board shall hold a public hearing at which all
pertinent evidence concerning the interpretation, decisions or appeal shall be
examined, and the Board shall make its decision within two weeks after the
hearing.  The following rules shall govern all decisions made by the Board:
      (1)   Limits of authority.  The Board shall act only within the strict
limits of its authority as defined in this Zoning Code.  The Board has no
authority to vary the use regulations or other regulations not specifically
delegated to it. The Board shall not hold bearings on applications or appeals
seeking decisions that the Board is not authorized to make.
      (2)   Special conditions.  The Board may attach special conditions to any
decision it is authorized to make to ensure that the intent of this Zoning Code
will be carried out.
      (3)   Majority vote required.  The concurring vote of a majority of the
entire membership of the Board shall be necessary in making any decision.
      (4)   Additional powers.  In exercising the above powers, the Board shall
have all the powers of the Enforcement Officer in addition to its other peers
and duties.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.219  CLARIFICATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTIONS.
   The following is a recapitulation of the agencies with jurisdiction and the
extent of their jurisdictions concerning administration of this Zoning Code.
   (A)   The Enforcement Officer has initial authority for the literal
enforcement of this Zoning Code.  He or she has no discretionary authority to
allow any departure from the literal conformance with this Zoning Code.
   (B)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment has jurisdiction over conditional use
permits and authority to hear appeals from decisions by the Enforcement Officer
and to make literal interpretations of the pertinent provisions to correct any
possible misinterpretation by the Enforcement Officer.  The Board also has the
authority to make only those initial discretionary interpretations and
decisions and allow only those departures from literal conformance which are
specifically delegated to it.  The Board has authority to allow special uses.
   (C)   The Circuit Court has jurisdiction to determine all questions and
issues properly brought before it on appeal from decisions of the Board of
Adjustment or the Planning and Zoning Commission according to KRS Chapter
100.347.
   (D)   The Planning and Zoning Commission, in addition to its other primary
responsibilities concerning adoption and amendment of this Zoning Code and
subdivision plat review and approvals has the authority and responsibility for
approval or disapproval of planned-development projects.  This responsibility,
like subdivision plat review, involves guiding the initial conversion of open
or agricultural land to developed lands including the proper arrangement of
streets in relation to other existing or planned streets, provision of adequate
open space, and the avoidance of congestion, and the like, and is consequently
equivalent to the Planning and Zoning Commission's primary responsibility for
subdivision plat review and approval.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71) 
§ 154.220  VIOLATIONS AND REMEDIES.
   The Enforcement Officer shall issue notice to violators of all violations of
this Zoning Code and shall order that such violations cease.  In case of
possible violation where the Enforcement Officer cannot determine if there is a
literal violation, he shall apply to the Board of Adjustment for an
interpretation.  If necessary, the City Attorney and any property owner or
occupant who would be damaged by a violation may institute appropriate action
in court to eliminate the threat of existence of any violation of this Zoning
Code in accordance with the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71) 
AMENDMENTS
§ 154.230  APPLICATIONS FOR AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation or political subdivision may apply for
an amendment to this chapter.
   (B)   The applicant petitions the Planning and Zoning Commission through the
City Clerk to amend this chapter.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71) 
§ 154.231  PROCEDURE.
   To make any amendment to this Zoning Code, either to the text or to the map,
the following procedure shall be followed. If any given use is not permitted in
a given zoning district by the provisions of this ordinance, it may not be
permitted by any agency unless the Zoning Code is amended according to the
amendment procedure.
   (A)   Filing the applications.  All applications for amendments to this
chapter shall be filed in writing with the city.
   (B)   Contents of applications.  Without in any way limiting the right of
file additional material, no application for amendment to this chapter will be
considered unless it contains:
      (1)   At least the applicant's name, address, and interest in the
application, and the name, address, and interest of every person, firm,
corporation or political subdivision represented by the applicant in the
application.
      (2)   The description of the proposed amendment.
      (3)   A plat showing the land area which would be affected by the
proposed amendment, the present zoning classification of the area and of all
abutting properties, all public and private rights-of- way and easements
bounding and intersecting the designated area and abutting properties.
      (4)   The error in the ordinance that would be corrected by the proposed
amendment or changed or changing conditions in the applicable area or in the
city generally that make the proposed amendment reasonably necessary to the
promotion of the public health, safety, or general welfare.
   (C)   Review by Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (1)   Upon receipt of an application for an amendment, properly and
completely made as herein set forth, the Planning and Zoning Commission which,
after examination of the application may require, if considered necessary, that
the applicant furnish additional information of a pertinent and reasonable
nature.
      (2)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold at least one public
hearing on the proposed amendment.  At least 15 days before the hearing one
notice shall be published in a paper of general circulation in the city,
stating the time, place and purpose of the hearing.
      (3)   Following the public hearing, and after due consideration of the
proposed amendments the Planning and Zoning Commission shall forward written
notice of its findings and recommendations concerning the application to the
City Council along with the application.  Such findings and recommendations
must be submitted to the Council within 90 days after receipt of the
application by the Commission.
   (D)   Action by City Council.
      (1)   The Council shall hold at least one public hearing as required by
KRS 100.530 before amendment of this chapter. At least 15 days but not more
than 30 days before the hearing, two notices shall be published in the paper of
general circulation in the city, stating the time, place, and purpose of the
hearing.
      (2)   Within 90 days after receipt of the Planning and Zoning Commission
recommendations and findings concerning the application along with the
application, the City Council shall act on such application following the
required public hearing.  If disapproved by the Commission, the amendment may
be adopted only by a majority vote of the entire membership of the Council.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71) 
Cross-reference:
   Planning and Zoning Commission, see §§
153.15 and
153.16
§ 154.232  FEES.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission may establish a schedule of reasonable
fees to be paid by the applicant for a zoning amendments.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71) 
§ 154.233  PLANNED-DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT AMENDMENT.
   If a planned-development project is proposed which includes a use not
permitted in the district containing the proposed location, the amendment
procedure may be initiated after conditional approval of the preliminary plat. 
A map amendment may be made to designate the proposed location as a planned-
development district.  Thereafter the planned-development project procedure
shall be followed, and the map amendment, if approved, shall be valid only for
that specific project as approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission in
conformance with §
154.021 of this chapter.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71) 
§ 154.234  CURRENCY OF ZONING MAP.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall insure that amended zoning district
boundaries are accurately placed on the certified copies of the zoning map and
shall initial and date all such additions to the map.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71) 
Cross-reference:
   Zoning Map, see App.,
Ch. 154
§ 154.235  CURRENCY OF ZONING CODE.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission Chairperson shall insure that all zoning
amendments are noted on all filed and/or official copies of this Zoning Code
and zoning ordinances.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71) 
§ 154.999  PENALTY.
   Any person, business entity, partnership, or corporation, which violates any
code provision of the Zoning Code of the city shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
and shall be fined the sum of $100 for each violation of the Zoning Code.  In
the event that a violation shall continue for more than one day, each day that
any such person or entity is in violation of the ordinance shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 71-09, passed 9-7-71; Am. Ord. 90-18, passed 8-14-90) 
APPENDIX: ZONING MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/742a0b9748244bda6e798f37bfae51658c9f056c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-28.jpg]
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/742a0b9748244bda6e798f37bfae51658c9f056c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-30.jpg]
 
This map is available in PDF, click HERE
(Ord. 84-09, passed 9-4-84)
CHAPTER 155:  PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
   
155.01   Adoption of Property Maintenance Code
   
155.02   Additions, insertions, deletions and changes
§ 155.01  ADOPTION OF PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   A certain document, three copies of which are on file in the office of the
Paintsville City Clerk, being marked and designated as “The 2000 Property
Maintenance Code”, and any subsequent edition, as published by the Building
Officials and Code Administrators International, Inc., the International
Conference of Building Officials, and the Southern Building Code Congress
International, Inc., be and is hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code
of the city, for the control of buildings and structures as herein provided,
and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and
terms of said Property Maintenance Code are hereby referred to, adopted, and
made a part hereof, as if set out in this section, with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in §
155.02 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-01, passed 1-11-00; Am. Ord. 2000-010, passed 10-17-00; Am. Ord.
2017-008, passed 7-24-17)
§ 155.02  ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS, DELETIONS AND CHANGES.
   The following sections are hereby revised.
   Section 101.1 Insert. City of Paintsville, Kentucky
   Section 103.6 Insert. (Schedule of Fees and Schedule of Penalties to be
attached.)
   Section 302.8 Insert. Except as provided for in other regulations, not more
than one currently unregistered or uninspected motor vehicle shall be parked,
kept or stored on any premises and no vehicle shall at any time be in a state
of major disassembly, disrepair, or in the process of being stripped or
dismantled.
      Exception: A vehicle of any type is permitted to undergo major overhaul,
including body work, provided that such work is performed inside a structure or
similarly enclosed area designed and approved for such purposes.
   Section 302.10 Insert. Any dog lots or other pens, cages or any type of
structure used to contain animals must be kept clean and odor free and no
animal waste shall be allowed to accumulate in any such dog lot, cage, or other
structure.
   Section 303.15 Insert. March 1st through November 1st
   Section 502.5 Add. Any and all dwelling, units or places of business is
hereby required to contain an enclosed bathroom with a toilet and lavatory
which is connected to city sewage and water. Section 602.3 Insert.  October 1st
through May 31st
   Section 602.4 Insert. October 1st through May 31st
   Chapter 8, Codes Insert. Boca National Building Code, Boca National Fire
Prevention Code.
(Ord. 2000-01, passed 1-11-00; Am. Ord. passed 2000-09, passed 9-12- 00; Am.
Ord. 2017-008, passed 7-24-17)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   BOND ISSUES
      
III.   CONDEMNATIONS
      
IV.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
V.   EASEMENTS
      
VI.   FRANCHISES
      
VII.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
VIII.   STREETS CLOSINGS
      
IX.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I:  ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
—   5-8-46 Annexing certain territory beginning at the creek near the bridge crossing
             Paint Creek near Paintsville National Bank on line of present city limits.
72-03 -  -72Annexing certain property set forth in the order and judgment.
—   -  -74Annexing a 76.68 acre tract located on the Levisa Fork of the Big Sandy River
             adjacent to the city limits.
76-04 10-5-  Annexing the following described territories:
      76
             (1) East Side:  Beginning at a point on the western edge of the Levisa Fork of
           the Big Sandy River, the point being 650 N of the mouth of Paint Creek and
             also being a point on the present city limits boundary of the city.
             (2) West Side:  Beginning at a point on the center of the knob in the present
           city limits boundary of the city, said point being 900 N 37 degrees 0  W of
             the radio towers.
87-03 3-3-87 Annexing the following described territories:
           Tract No. 1:  Beginning at an iron stake set in the ground on the high knob
             North of Roy Dills' house.
           Tract No. 2:  Beginning at a point in the right-of-way of U.S. Highway 460,
             being 124.31 right of centerline station 730+11.02.
87-04 4-8-87 Annexing the following described territories:
           Tract No. 1:  A tract or parcel of land on Big Paint Creek and on the John
             Teas or A.W. Rule Branch of the Big Paint Creek.
             Tract No. 2:  A certain tract or parcel of land lying on the waters of Hidden
           Valley, and beginning at a point in the northern right-of-way of U.S. Highway
             460 and Turner Branch.
90-05 3-13-  Annexing certain territory beginning at the city limits at the interchange of
      90     U.S. 23, U.S. 460, and Ky. 40.
97-   8-12-  Annexing certain real property as described in Exhibit A, attached to Ord. 97-
005   97     005, to be zoned I2.
99-   7-13-  Proposing annexation of a certain tract of parcel of land lying along the
009   99     western right-of-way line of Kentucky Route 321.
2001- 1-9-01 Annexing certain real property lying along the western right-of-way line of
03           Kentucky Route 321.
2009- 5-12-  Annexing certain land consisting of two separate parcels of property located
001   09     on the north side of the intersection of U.S. Highway 40 and Kentucky Route
             321, adjacent to the city limits.
2009- 10-13- Annexing certain land consisting of three separate parcels of property located
001   09     on the north side of the intersection of U.S. Highway 40 and Kentucky Route
             321, adjacent to the city limits.
2010- 11-9-  Annexing certain real property in accordance with the intent to annex stated
003   10     in Ord. 87-03.
2010- 11-9-  Annexing certain real property in accordance with the intent to annex stated
004   10     in Ord. 87-04.
2010- 11-9-  Annexing certain real property in accordance with the intent to annex stated
005   10     in Ord. 90-05.
2010- 11-9-  Annexing certain real property in accordance with the intent to annex stated
006   10     in Ord. 97-005.
2011- 10-11- Declaring the intent to annex approximately 489.98 acres generally bounded by
006   11     KY Route 40, KY Route 1107, and the Levisa Fork of the Big Sandy River.
2011- 12-22- Annexing certain property as described in Ord. 2011-006.
007   11
2015- 6-8-15 Annexing approximately 332.079 acres contiguous to existing city limits,
005          bounded and in the general vicinity of US 23 in the area of Jenny’s Creek.
2015- 11-9-  Annexing approximately 332.079 acres of land, more or less, bounded and in the
008   15     general vicinity of US 23 in the area of Jenny’s Creek.
            
 
TABLE II:  BOND ISSUES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
             Authorizing the providing for the issuance of Water Revenue Bonds in the
—   8-11-  amount of $365,000 for the purpose of refunding outstanding Water Works
      50     (Revenue) Bonds of the city and constructing extensions and improvements to
             the municipal water works system.
      5-21-  Authorizing the issuance of $50,000 General Obligation Park and Playground
—   51     Bonds of the city for the purpose of establishing a park and playground in
             and for the city.
—   9-4-79 Authorizing the issuance and sale of $1,000,000 principal amount of city
             combined revenue bonds, series of 1979.
      10-26- Clarifying the ordinance enacted on September 4, 1979, to provide for the
79-07 79     deposit into the debt service reserve of the sum of $147,500 out of the
             proceeds of the bonds.
             Authorizing and providing for the issuance of the City Economic Development
             Revenue Bond (Blake Ratliff Enterprises, Inc. Project), dated the date of
81-09 9-1-81 delivery, in the principal amount of $2,800,000, to pay the costs of the
             acquisition and construction of an economic development project by the city
             for use and occupancy as a resort hotel complex.
             Authorizing the issuance and sale of not to exceed $9,500,000 city first
82-03 3-29-  mortgage hospital revenue bonds (Paintsville Hospital Project) series 1982,
      82     to finance the acquisition, construction, improving and equipping of a
             certain industrial building constituting a hospital facility.
             Supplementing Ordinance [82-03] of the City Council adopted on March 29,
      6-10-  1982; authorizing the acquisition, construction, improving and equipping of a
82-06 82     certain industrial building constituting a hospital facility:  authorizing
             the issuance and sale of not to exceed $9,500,0000 city first mortgage
             hospital revenue bonds (Paul B. Hall Medical Center Project).
             Authorizing the issuance of $1,091,000 of the city's water revenue bonds,
      11-14- series of 1989, to provide part of the costs of the construction of
89-08 89     extensions, additions and improvements to that portion of the city's water
             distribution which formerly constituted the Johnson County Water District's
             Water Distribution System.
             Authorizing the city to issue $8,130,000 aggregate principal amount of first
91-   9-10-  mortgage hospital revenue refunding bonds (Paul B. Hall Medical Center
012   91     Project) series 1991, for the purpose of refunding certain first mortgage
             hospital revenue bonds for Paintsville Hospital Company, a Kentucky
             corporation.
             Relating to $2,265,000 (plus or minus up to $225,000) principal amount of
93-   4-13-  city combined utility refunding revenue bonds, series 1993, for the purpose
001   93     of financing the cost of refunding through the deposit in escrow of
             sufficient government securities and cash to pay the principal and interest
             on the outstanding city combined utility revenue bonds, series 1986.
             Providing for the issuance of the City of Paintsville, Kentucky revenue bonds
93-   12-14- (Mountain Homeplace Historical Area Project) series 1993, in the principal
010   93     amount of $1,500,000, for the educational and heritage preservation purposes
             of the Paintsville Lake Historical Association, Inc.
             Authorizing the issuance of $457,000 of the city's water revenue bonds,
94-   8-16-  series 1994, to provide part of the costs for construction of extensions,
006   94     additions, and improvements to that portion of the city's water distribution
             which formerly constituted the Johnson County Water District's water
             distribution system.
             Authorizing the construction of extensions, additions and improvements to
             that portion of the city's water distribution system which formerly
             constituted the Johnson County Water District's water distribution system
98-          (The "System"); authorizing the issuance of $351,000 of the city's water
008   9-8-98 revenue bonds, series of 1998, to provide part of the costs of said
             construction; providing for the terms and conditions upon which said bonds
             are to be issued; setting forth the terms and conditions upon which the
             system shall be operated; and authorizing certain other action in connection
             with said construction and the issuance of said bonds.
             An ordinance relating to $3,300,000 principal amount of City of Paintsville,
             Kentucky Combined Utility Revenue Bonds, series 1998, dated July 1, 1998, for
             the purpose of financing the cost of constructing multiple utility system
             improvements, providing for said bonds to rank on a parity with the
             outstanding $701,000 of City of Paintsville Combined Utility Revenue Bonds of
98-   7-14-  1978, $795,000 of City of Paintsville Combined Utility Refunding Revenue
009   98     Bonds, series 1992, $2,000,000 of City of Paintsville Combined Utility
             Refunding Revenue Bonds, series 1993 and $460,000 City of Paintsville
             Combined Utility Revenue Bonds, series 1996, setting forth the terms and
             conditions on which said bonds may be issued and outstanding; providing for
             the payment of the principal of and interest on said bonds; providing for the
             rights of the owners of said bonds and the enforcement thereof; and providing
             for an advertised public competitive sale of said bonds.
             An ordinance relating to the issuance of $250,000 of Water Revenue Bonds,
2006-        Series 2006, providing for the terms and conditions upon which bonds are to
004   8-8-06 be issued; setting forth the terms and conditions upon which the system shall
             be operated; and authorizing certain other action in connection with the
             construction and issuance of the bonds.
             Authorizing the issuance and sale of $13,500,000 principal amount of Combined
2011- 4-12-  Utilities Revenue Bonds, Series 2011, for the purpose of financing the
004   11     construction of extensions, additions and improvements to the water, sewer
             and gas system of the city.
             Authorizing the issuance and sale of $4,900,000 principal amount of Combined
2017- 7-24-  Utilities Revenue Bonds, Series 2018, for the purpose of financing the
007   17     construction of extensions, additions and improvements to the water, sewage
             and gas system of the city.
            
 
TABLE III:  CONDEMNATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Directing the proper authorities of the city to condemn in
                     behalf of the city and for the purpose of establishing of
—      6-5-50      a park and playground within the city, lots numbers six,
                     seven and eight of block number 28 of Stafford Addition to
                     the city.
 
TABLE IV:  CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
      10-6-  Authorizing and contracting with the Tri-State Construction Company and its
—   47     subcontractor for installation and laying down of additional insulation course on
             certain streets and public way in Stafford Addition to the city.
—   4-3-51 Approving contract for purchase of gas from Kentucky West Virginia Gas Company,
             for re-sale to consumers in the city and its environs.
             Authorizing the Mayor to execute on behalf of the city a contract or agreement
75-01 2-4-75 with Kentucky-West Virginia Gas Company for the installation of a new metering
             station to be located on Burnt Cabin, Johnson County, Kentucky.
      7-22-  Approving a pooled lease program and authorizing the execution of the interlocal
86-07 86     cooperation agreement under which the program will be organized and revenue bonds
             for the financing thereof will be issued.
             Approving a joint and cooperative program for self-insurance, insurance and the
             investment of public funds among various cities, urban-county governments and
87-06 6-2-87 other public agencies within the Commonwealth of Kentucky authorizing the
             execution of the “Interlocal Cooperation Agreement to establish the Kentucky
             Municipal Risk Management Association.”
             Approving participation by the city in the Kentucky Municipal Risk Management
      7-14-  Association (KMRMA) general insurance trust and authorizing the Mayor to execute
87-07 87     for and on behalf of the city in connection with its participation in the KMRMA
             general insurance trust a binding trust participation agreement between the city
             and the KMRMA.
      10-18- Authorizing the city to enter into an agreement with the phone company to provide
88-10 88     for the construction, implementation and ongoing maintenance of “911” within the
             local area.
             The Mayor is authorized and directed to execute a contract with and accept a
             grant from the Transportation Cabinet which grant funds are in the amount of
95-   10-12- $15,200 and are for the development and construction of Phase 3 of Paint Creek
010   95     Park (a boardwalk and park signs), the acceptance of which obligates the city for
             the expenditure of $19,000, $3,800 of which shall be paid by Paintsville Main
             Street, Inc.
2000- 4-11-  Approving a lease for the financing of a project; providing for the payment and
06    00     security of the lease; creating a sinking fund; and authorizing the execution of
             various document related to such lease.
2000- 6-13-  Approving a lease for the financing of a project; providing for the payment and
07    00     security of the lease; creating a sinking fund; authorizing the execution of
             various documents related to such lease.
2001- 7-11-  Approving a lease for the financing of a project; providing for the payment and
06    01     security of the lease; creating a sinking fund; authorizing the execution of
             various documents related to such lease.
2000- 11-10- Approving a lease for the financing of a project; providing for the payment and
04    02     security of the lease; creating a sinking fund; authorizing the execution of
             various documents related to such lease.
2002- 11-18- Approving a lease for the refinancing of a project; providing for the payment and
05    02     security of the lease; creating a sinking fund; authorizing the execution of
             various documents related to such lease.
2003- 11-11- Approving a lease for the financing of a project; providing for the payment and
015   03     security of the lease; creating a sinking fund; authorizing the execution of
             various documents related to such lease.
             Authorizing participation in Kentucky Municipal League Pooled Lease Financing
2005- 12-21- Program and financing through the Program of the costs of replacing Police and
008   05     Sanitation Department vehicles and an upgrade of the 911 center radio system and
             authorizing execution of lease purchase agreement.
2011- 3-23-  Approving a lease for the financing of a project; providing for the payment and
002   11     security of the lease; creating a sinking fund; authorizing the execution of
             various documents related to such lease.
2014- 7-8-14 Electrical inspector contract between the city and Hassel D. Gullett.
003
 
TABLE V:  EASEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting an easement to the City Utilities Commission in
80-08    8-18-80     and to all rights-of-way and property owned and/or
                     controlled by the city.
                     Granting an easement to the City Utilities Commission in
4-81     4-6-81      and to all rights-of-way and property owned and/or
                     controlled by the city.
 
TABLE VI:  FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting to the Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Co., its
—      12-9-46     successors [CSX Transportation] and assigns a franchise to
                     construct, maintain and operate a spur track along Madison
                     Avenue within the city.
                     Amending the ordinance adopted on or about December 9,
                     1946, granting to the Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Co. its
78-11    12-5-78     successors [CSX Transportation] and assigns a franchise to
                     construct, maintain and operate a spur track along Madison
                     Avenue within the city.
                     Granting to Kentucky Power Company, its successors and
                     assigns, a franchise, to acquire, maintain, construction
                     and operate in, above, under, across and along the public
88-05    5-3-88      ways and other public places of the city lines, poles and
                     equipment for the transportation, transmission and
                     distribution of electric energy to the city for a 20-year
                     period.
                     Granting to Tele-Media Company, a Kentucky general
                     partnership, a nonexclusive franchise to erect,
89-05A   7-11-89     construction, maintain and operate community antenna
                     television system facilities and additions thereto, in,
                     under, over, along, across and under the public ways and
                     other public places in the city for a period of 20 years.
                     Granting to Highland Construction, Inc., a Kentucky
                     corporation, a nonexclusive franchise to erect,
89-06    8-8-89      construction, maintain and operate community antenna
                     television system facilities and additions thereto, in,
                     under, over, along, across, and under the public ways and
                     other public places in the city for a period of 20 years.
                     Granting to TriWave Communications Co. of Ky. a
2006-005 11-14-06    nonexclusive franchise to erect, construct, maintain and
                     operate community antenna television system facilities and
                     additions thereto in the city for a period of 20 years.
                     Authorizing the advertisement and sale of a franchise for
2008-002 1-29-08     the maintenance, construction and operation of electric
                     power transmission and distribution lines in the city for
                     20 years.
                     Granting to Kentucky Power Company a 20-year franchise for
2008-003 5-13-08     the transportation, transmission and distribution of
                     electric energy to the City of Paintsville.
 
TABLE VII:  REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Acceding a deed for certain property beginning at a point
                     287 easterly at right angles from center line of east
—      6-6-49      bound main track of the Big Sandy Subdivision of the
                     Chesapeake and Ohio Railway [CSX Transportation] at
                     station 3136441; for use as a waterworks site.
 
TABLE VIII:  STREET CLOSINGS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
71-06    4-6-71      Closing Old Depot Road between New Depot Road and Old
                     Depot Bridge.
71-10    9-7-71      Closing streets in the proposed neighborhood facility and
                     outdoor recreation project area.
                     Closing Bridge Street between the intersection of Bridge
71-12    12-7-71     and Preston Streets extending to Paint Creek at the site
                     of the old bridge.
                     Closing an unnamed alleyway, ten feet in width, lying
76-03    5-18-76     between Rose Street and Short Street in Bridgeford
                     addition of the city.
                     Closing the alley in Block 21 as designed by map in
80-1     6-3-80      Miscellaneous Book 4, page 592 of the Johnson County Court
                     Clerk's Office.
                     Closing the unusable portion of Sycamore Street which is
84-09    9-4-84      indicated by the map attached to Ordinance 84-09, passed
                     9-4-84.
94-009   11-15-94    Closing an unnamed alley at the South Bridgeford Addition.
99-014   9-16-99     Closing an alley at Stafford Addition between 10th Street
                     and 11th Street.
2003-006 5-13-03     Closing an alley between Broadway and Jefferson Avenue
                     beginning at 11th Street.
2004-002 3-9-04      Closing Madison Avenue between 10th Street and 11th
                     Street.
                     Closing that portion of an unnamed street located between
2009-002 5-12-09     Lincoln Avenue and Route 321 adjoining the property of
                     Gregory Meade.
 
TABLE IX:  ZONING MAP CHANGES
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
85-  10-1-  Rezoning the area bounding Depot Road and the alleyway running from Maple Street
10   85     to State Street, for commercial use as indicated by a C-1 classification.
86-  4-8-86 Establishing zoning designations for certain areas as follows:
04
            (1)  The area termed the “Island Creek Shop Area,” bounded from the street,
            Dugan Drive, from its northerly side to the Castle property, and from the Big
            Sandy River to Riverview Drive to be designated with a “C- 3” classifications.
            (2)  The area located south of Dugan Drive, bounded by the Big Sandy River and
            to the top of the ridge to the east, and all other properties not herein
            designated shall be designation with a “R-2” classification.
            (3)  The 12-acre Pugh/Castle tract petitioned for at the September 11, 1985
            hearing to be designated with a “R-3” classification.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Cite Code Section
KRS Cite                   Code Section
6.050                      32.48
6.955 — 6.975            33.04
Ch. 13A                    93.02
Ch. 13B                    93.06
Ch. 18A                    113.02
18A.225(2)                 113.02
18A.228                    113.02
Ch. 39A - 39F              36.25,
                           36.27
39A.010                    31.21
39A.020                    31.21
39A.030                    31.21
39B.010                    36.25
39B.020                    36.26
39B.030                    36.27
39B.030(3)                 36.27
39B.050                    36.25,
                           36.27
39B.070                    36.27
39F.200                    36.27
41.240(4)                  33.05
42.450 — 42.495          33.04
45A.385                    33.30
Ch. 58                     153.39
Ch. 61                     32.21
61.165                     99.03
61.810                     39.66
61.870                     34.01
61.870 — 61.882          31.36
61.870 — 61.884          34.17,
                           39.70
61.872 — 61.884          39.15
61.872(4)                  34.06
61.872(5)                  34.07
61.872(6)                  34.08
61.874(1), (2)             34.12
61.874(3), (4)             34.13
61.874(5)                  34.14
61.874(6)                  34.15
61.878                     34.01,
                           34.16
61.878(1)                  34.16
61.880                     34.09
61.880(1)                  34.16
61.884                     34.11
62.020                     31.01
65.003                     39.03,
                           54.30
65.067                     31.01
                           40.01,
65.8801 — 65.8839        40.02,
                           40.13
65.8815(5)                 40.05
65A.030                    116.05
66.660                     91.020
                           39.03,
82.082                     54.30,
                           151.01
82.600                     72.092
82.605 — 82.640          72.092
82.610                     72.026
82.615                     72.026
Ch. 83A                    31.20
83A.010(5)                 10.02
83A.010(6)                 10.02
83A.010(8)                 10.02
83A.030(1)                 30.02
83A.040                    32.01,
                           32.02
83A.040(1), (2), (6)       31.21
83A.040(2)(c)              31.21
83A.040(2)(d)              31.21
83A.040(3)                 31.21
83A.040(4)                 32.01
83A.040(5)                 32.02
83A.040(6)                 32.02
83A.040(7)                 31.21,
                           32.02
83A.040(8)                 31.21,
                           32.02
83A.040(9)                 31.03
83A.045(2)(b)(1)           31.20
83A.050                    31.20,
                           32.01
83A.060(1)                 32.35
83A.060(2)                 32.36
83A.060(3)                 32.37
83A.060(4), (7)            32.38
83A.060(5)                 32.40
83A.060(6)                 32.22
83A.060(8)                 32.41,
                           32.42
83A.060(9)                 32.43
83A.060(10)                32.44
83A.060(11)                32.45
83A.060(12), (13)          32.46
83A.060(14)                32.47
83A.060(15)                32.48
83A.065                    10.99
83A.070                    31.02
83A.075                    31.02
83A.080                    39.04
83A.080(1), (2)            31.35
83A.080(2)                 31.03
83A.080(3), (4)            31.20
83A.085                    31.36
83A.090                    31.39
83A.130 — 83A.150        31.21
83A.130(1)                 30.01
83A.130(2)                 30.02
83A.130(3)                 31.21
83A.130(4)                 31.21
83A.130(5)                 32.20
83A.130(6)                 32.39
83A.130(7)                 31.21
83A.130(8)                 31.21
83A.130(9)                 31.21
83A.130(10)                31.21
83A.130(11)                32.03,
                           32.21
83A.130(12)                32.03
83A.130(13)                32.03
83A.175                    32.02
Ch. 91                     35.03
91.484 — 91.527          35.03
91A.010(6)                 33.01
91A.010(7)                 33.01
91A.010(8)                 10.02
91A.020                    33.02
91A.030                    33.03
91A.040                    121.116
91A.040(1), (4) - (6), (8) 33.04
91A.050                    33.04
91A.060                    33.05
91A.080                    38.15
91A.200                    33.11
91A.210                    33.10
91A.220                    33.11
91A.230                    33.12
91A.240                    33.13
91A.250                    33.14
91A.260                    33.15
91A.270                    33.16
91A.280                    33.17
91A.290                    33.18
91A.350                    116.39
91A.350 et seq.            116.03
91A.360(1)(a) - (3)        116.02
91A.360(4)                 116.02,
                           116.03
91A.390                    116.39
91A.390(1)(a)              116.04
91A.390(1)(b)              116.04
91A.390(2)                 116.05
91A.390(3)                 116.04
91A.390(7)                 116.05
Ch. 92                     35.03
92.810                     35.03
Ch. 100                    154.218
100.133                    153.15
100.141                    153.15
100.183 — 100.197        153.01
100.201                    154.001,
                           154.003
100.217                    154.218
100.236                    154.022
100.237                    154.022
100.347                    154.219
100.530                    154.231
103.200                    153.39
103.285                    153.39
Ch. 107                    33.11
Ch. 116 — Ch. 121        31.20
Ch. 118                    31.20
118.305(7)                 31.21,
                           32.02
119.205                    119.01
131.010(6)                 113.03
132.285                    35.01
134.800                    35.04
134.810                    35.04
Ch. 136                    35.06
136.120                    110.03
136.602                    110.03
137.010                    114.01
137.410                    114.01
151.250                    151.15
Ch. 154                    34.16
154.20-250 - 154.20-284    110.03
                           153.31,
154.50-301 - 154.50-346    153.34,
                           153.41
154.50-330                 153.33
174.100                    91.030
174.100(1)                 91.031
174.100(2), (3)            91.032
174.100(4)                 91.033
174.100(5)                 91.034
174.100(6), (7)            91.035
178.290                    91.020
186.010(8)b                71.62
189.020                    71.27
189.285                    73.02
189.287                    73.01
189.290                    71.25
189.330(8)                 71.02
189.338                    70.15
189.394                    71.99
189.450(5), (6)            72.003
189.580                    71.15
189.725                    72.008
189.930                    71.26
189.990                    71.99
189.990(1)                 72.99
189.993(8)                 71.99
190.010(8)                 92.04
190.030                    120.01
Ch. 198B                   150.03
198B.070                   150.03
198B.990(1)                150.99
218A.040                   130.02
218A.050                   130.02,
                           121.067
218A.060                   130.02,
                           121.067
218A.070                   130.02,
                           121.067
218A.080                   130.02,
                           121.067
218A.090                   130.02,
                           121.067
218A.100                   130.02,
                           121.067
218A.110                   130.02,
                           121.067
218A.120                   130.02,
                           121.067
218A.130                   130.02,
                           121.067
219.120 — 219.250        154.050
226.010                    112.01
226.020                    112.02
226.030                    112.07
226.040                    112.03
226.050                    112.04
226.060                    112.08
226.070                    112.03
226.080                    112.05
226.090                    112.06
226.100                    112.08
226.990(1)                 112.99
226.990(3)                 112.99
227.550                    92.04
227.700 — 227.750        93.01,
                           93.06
227.700                    93.01
227.702                    93.01 —
                           93.03
227.702(1)                 93.03
227.704                    93.01
227.706                    93.01
227.708                    93.01
227.710                    93.02
227.715                    93.01 —
                           93.03
227.715(7) — (9)         93.03
227.720                    93.04
227.730                    93.05
227.750                    93.06
227.990(1)                 150.99
227.990(4)                 93.99
Ch. 241                    121.002
241.010                    121.002
241.010(2)                 121.003
241.010(20)                121.037
241.010(29)                121.037
241.010(39)                121.037
241.010(44)                121.037
241.060                    121.020,
                           121.021
241.160                    121.020
241.180                    121.024
                           121.020,
241.190                    121.021,
                           121.039
241.200                    121.023,
                           121.063
Ch. 242                    121.002
242.1244                   121.037
Ch. 243                    110.03,
                           121.002
243.036                    121.037
243.070                    121.037,
                           121.038
243.072                    121.037,
                           121.039
243.072(4)                 121.038
243.075(6)                 121.116
243.120                    121.037
243.250                    121.037
243.380                    121.060
243.440                    121.065
243.450                    121.063
243.490                    121.063
243.500                    121.063
243.550                    121.023,
                           121.063
243.610                    121.005
243.620                    121.044
243.630                    121.043
243.640                    121.043
243.650                    121.043
243.660                    121.043
Ch. 244                    121.002
244.130                    121.081
244.150                    121.022,
                           121.037
257.100(1) — (3)         90.06
257.100(4)                 90.01
Ch. 281                    72.027
318.990                    150.99
343.620                    121.066
367.952                    36.40
376.275(1), (2)            72.027
376.275(3)                 72.028
411.500 — 411.570        Ch. 92
413.072                    90.08
                           32.43,
Ch. 424                    33.04,
                           33.14,
                           33.15
424.220                    33.04
424.260                    53.21
436.600                    90.04,
                           90.99
446.010(1)                 10.02
446.010(2)                 10.02
446.010(8)                 10.02
446.010(10)                10.02
446.010(11)                10.02
446.010(13)                10.02
446.010(14)                10.02
446.010(15)                10.02
446.010(16)                10.02
446.010(18)                10.02
446.010(19)                10.02
446.010(24)                10.02
446.010(26)                10.02
446.010(27)                10.02
446.010(28)                10.02
446.010(29)                10.02
446.010(30)                10.02
446.010(31)                10.02
446.010(33)                10.02
446.010(37)                10.02
446.010(39)                10.02
446.010(43)                10.02
446.010(46)                10.02
446.010(47)                10.02
446.010(49)                10.02
446.010(55)                10.02
446.020(1)                 10.03
446.020(2)                 10.03
446.030                    10.04
446.050                    10.05
446.060                    10.06
446.080(1)                 10.03
446.080(3)                 10.03
446.080(4)                 10.03
446.090                    10.07
446.100                    10.08
446.110                    10.09
446.140                    10.01
510.010(7)                 119.28
512.020 — 512.040        52.004
525.125                    90.03
525.130                    90.03,
                           90.99
528.010                    119.01
532.090                    130.99
534.040                    10.99
                           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
—      5-8-46      T.S.O., Table I
—      12-9-46     T.S.O., Table VI
—      10-6-47     T.S.O., Table IV
—      6-6-49      T.S.O., Table VII
—      6-5-50      T.S.O., Table III
—      8-11-50     T.S.O., Table II
—      10-3-50     53.15 -
                     53.22
—      4-3-51      T.S.O., Table IV
—      5-21-51     T.S.O., Table II
—      5-13-52     50.01 -
                     50.06
70-03    4-7-70      36.01,
                     36.02
70-05    8-4-70      50.40,
                     50.41
70-09    10-6-70     116.36
71-01    1-5-71      38.10
71-06    4-6-71      T.S.O., Table VIII
71-10    9-7-71      T.S.O., Table VIII
                     154.001 -
                     154.007,
                     154.020 -
                     154.022,
                     154.035 -
                     154.038,
                     154.050,
                     154.060 -
                     154.064,
                     154.075 -
                     154.078,
                     154.090,
                     154.091,
                     154.110,
                     154.111,
71-09    9-7-71      154.125,
                     154.135 -
                     154.142,
                     154.155 -
                     154.160,
                     154.170,
                     154.171,
                     154.185 -
                     154.187,
                     154.200 -
                     154.205,
                     154.215 -
                     154.220,
                     154.230 -
                     154.235,
                     154.999
71-12    12-7-71     T.S.O., Table VIII
72-02    4-4-72      152.05
72-03    -  -72     T.S.O., Table I
72-04    12-5-72     154.139
73-02    7-3-73      91.001
—      -  -74     T.S.O., Table I
75-01    2-4-75      T.S.O., Table IV
75-1     7-23-75     33.06
76-01    2-3-76      36.15,
                     36.16
76-02    2-3-76      53.16
76-03    5-18-76     T.S.O., Table VIII
76-04    10-5-76     T.S.O., Table I
77-03    6-7-77      115.01 -
                     115.04
77-04    6-7-77      153.15,
                     153.16
77-07    8-12-77     54.01
78-04    3-7-78      38.01
78-07    6-1-78      50.40,
                     50.41
                     50.20,
78-08    6-1-78      50.22 -
                     50.24
                     37.03,
78-09    9-5-78      96.01 -
                     96.07
78-10    11-7-78     152.01 -
                     152.04
78-11    12-5-78     T.S.O., Table VI
78-12    12-11-78    116.35 -
                     116.39
79-01    2-6-79      72.014,
                     72.999
                     150.16 -
79-03    6-5-79      150.23,
                     150.36
—      9-4-79      T.S.O., Table II
79-07    10-26-79    T.S.O., Table II
80-01    2-5-80      116.35 -
                     116.39
80-02    1-28-80     33.30 -
                     33.34
80-03    1-28-80     71.60 -
                     71.64
80-06    4-1-80      94.01 -
                     94.07
80-07    4-1-80      114.01
80-08    4-1-80      38.15 -
                     38.17
80-09    4-1-80      91.002
                     130.01 -
80-10    4-1-80      130.05,
                     130.99
80-11    4-1-80      71.60 -
                     71.64
                     151.01 - 151.10,
80-12    4-1-80      151.20, 151.30 - 151.33, 151.45, 151.46,
                     151.99
80-13    5-6-80      151.31
80-14    5-5-80      95.30 -
                     95.32
                     92.20 -
81-4     4-6-81      92.25,
                     154.023,
                     T.S.O., Table V
81-09    9-1-81      T.S.O., Table II
82-03    3-29-82     T.S.O., Table II
—      5-25-82     32.38
82-06    6-10-82     T.S.O., Table II
82-09    9-14-82     71.05
83-03    3-23-83     54.02
                     154.006,
84-09    9-4-84      154.999,
                     T.S.O., Table VIII
85-01    11-4-84     113.01 -
                     113.04
85-01-A  12-10-84    113.01 -
                     113.04
85-01-B  4-2-85      113.01 -
                     113.04
85-06    6-4-85      150.15
85-07    7-2-85      53.01
85-10    10-1-85     T.S.O., Table IX
86-04    4-8-86      T.S.O., Table IX
                     116.35 -
86-06    6-10-86     116.39,
                     152.01 -
                     152.04
86-07    7-1-86      52.100 -
                     52.105
86-07    7-22-86     T.S.O., Table IV
                     151.01 - 151.10,
87-02    2-3-87      151.20, 151.30 - 151.33, 151.45, 151.46,
                     151.99
87-03    3-3-87      T.S.O., Table I
87-04    4-2-87      153.30 -
                     153.41
87-04    4-8-87      T.S.O., Table I
87-06    6-2-87      T.S.O., Table IV
87-07    7-14-87     T.S.O., Table IV
                     150.01,
87-08    8-11-87     150.02,
                     150.35
                     52.001 -
                     52.004,
                     52.015 -
                     52.019,
                     52.030,
                     52.031,
                     52.045 -
87-10    11-10-87    52.048,
                     52.060 -
                     52.074,
                     52.085 -
                     52.088,
                     52.115 -
                     52.122,
                     52.999
                     72.013,
                     72.055 -
                     72.063,
88-02    2-2-88      72.075,
                     72.076,
                     72.090,
                     72.999
88-05    5-3-88      T.S.O., Table VI
88-06    6-7-88      50.40,
                     50.41
—      4-5-88      72.012,
                     72.999
—      8-9-88      35.03
—      9-6-88      91.060 -
                     91.071
                     95.15 -
88-10    10-18-88    95.17,
                     T.S.O., Table IV
89-1     1-10-89     31.20
                     72.001,
                     72.003,
89-4     6-6-89      72.025,
                     72.093,
                     72.999
89-5A    7-11-89     T.S.O., Table VI
89-6     8-8-89      T.S.O., Table VI
89-7     10-10-89    52.101
89-8     11-14-89    T.S.O., Table II
90-01    1-22-90     51.01
90-03    2-13-90     53.16
90-04    2-13-90     51.01
90-05    3-13-90     T.S.O., Table I
90-06    3-26-90     116.99
90-07    4-10-90     154.125
90-09    6-12-90     Ch. 74, Sched. II
90-10    6-12-90     154.171
90-11    6-12-90     153.01
                     37.01,
                     37.04,
90-12    6-12-90     37.05,
                     37.15 -
                     37.39
90-14    8-14-90     72.026,
                     72.999
90-15    8-14-90     95.01
90-16    8-14-90     153.01
90-18    8-14-90     154.999
90-19    8-14-90     72.999
                     116.01,
90-20    10-9-90     116.03,
                     116.15 -
                     116.22
90-21    12-11-90    154.111
91-002   3-12-91     91.085 -
                     91.092
                     150.01,
91-003   3-12-91     150.03,
                     150.04
                     98.01,
                     98.15 -
91-004   4-9-91      98.20,
                     98.30 -
                     98.33,
                     98.99
                     37.01,
                     37.02,
91-005   5-14-91     37.04,
                     37.17,
                     37.40
91-007   6-11-91     50.02
91-008   7-9-91      72.026
91-009   7-9-91      72.092
91-010   8-13-91     37.05
                     72.077,
91-011   9-10-91     72.091,
                     72.999
91-012   9-10-91     T.S.O., Table II
92-002   1-28-92     52.101
                     54.15 -
92-005   6-9-92      54.20,
                     54.99
92-007   7-16-92     50.40,
                     50.41
                     50.20,
                     50.21,
92-008   7-16-92     50.23,
                     50.25,
                     50.26,
                     50.99
92-009   9-8-92      73.05
92-010   9-8-92      90.07,
                     90.99
93-001   4-13-93     T.S.O., Table II
93-002   5-11-93     150.05
                     90.15 -
93-003   -  -93     90.18,
                     90.99
93-005   7-13-93     154.050
93-006   8-10-93     37.05
93-008   8-10-93     151.04, 151.30
93-009   8-10-93     37.05
93-010   12-14-93    T.S.O., Table II
                     117.01 -
94-002   2-15-94     117.07,
                     117.99
94-003   3-17-94     97.01 -
                     97.06
94-006   8-16-94     T.S.O., Table II
                     39.01 -
                     39.04,
                     39.10 -
                     39.17,
94-007   9-13-94     39.30 -
                     39.35,
                     39.50,
                     39.60 -
                     39.70,
                     39.99
94-008   10-11-94    51.01
94-009   11-15-94    T.S.O., Table VIII
94-010   12-13-94    154.125
95-001   3-14-95     39.30
95-003   6-15-95     111.02
95-004   6-15-95     150.05
95-005   6-15-95     36.16
95-006   7-11-95     Ch. 118
95-007   7-11-95     37.04
95-008   9-12-95     37.06
95-009   10-10-95    Adopting Ordinance
95-010   10-12-95    T.S.O. IV
96-003   6-11-96     52.015
96-004   7-9-96      31.39
96-005   8-13-96     38.25 -
                     38.30
96-007   9-17-96     Adopting Ordinance
96-008   9-17-96     35.06
96-009   10-8-96     90.08
                     90.01,
                     90.02,
                     90.05,
                     90.06,
96-010   10-8-96     90.07,
                     90.16,
                     90.18,
                     90.19,
                     90.99
96-011   12-23-96    31.02
97-003   8-12-97     37.04
97-004   8-12-97     Adopting Ordinance
97-005   8-12-97     T.S.O. I
98-002   3-17-98     37.04,
                     37.41
98-003   3-17-98     37.04,
                     37.42
98-005   6-9-98      Adopting Ordinance
98-006   7-15-98     50.27
98-008   9-8-98      T.S.O. II
98-009   7-14-98     T.S.O. II
99-002   2-9-99      111.02
99-003   5-11-99     38.40
99-004   5-11-99     36.25 -
                     36.28
99-006   6-15-99     Ch. 119
99-007   6-15-99     150.35
99-008   6-15-99     38.25,
                     38.26
99-009   7-13-99     T.S.O. I
99-010   7-13-99     38.27
99-011   7-13-99     95.16
99-012   8-12-99     Adopting Ordinance
99-013   9-16-99     95.16
99-014   9-16-99     T.S.O. VIII
99-015   10-12-99    51.01
99-016   12-14-99    38.02
2000-01  1-11-00     155.01,
                     155.02
2000-02  1-11-00     51.01
2000-06  4-11-00     T.S.O. IV
2000-07  6-13-00     T.S.O. IV
2000-09  9-12-00     155.02
2000-010 10-17-00    155.01
2001-03  1-9-01      T.S.O. IV
2001-07  7-10-01     72.015
2001-06  7-11-01     T.S.O. IV
2001-008 8-21-01     54.30 -
                     54.32
2001-009 9-18-01     37.07
2000-04  11-10-02    T.S.O. IV
2002-01  6-11-02     52.001
2002-03  8-13-02     116.17
2002-05  11-18-03    T.S.O. IV
2003-001 1-30-03     36.50 -
                     36.53
2003-002 1-30-03     154.075
2003-004 3-11-03     116.16
2003-005 3-11-03     116.37
2003-006 5-13-03     T.S.O. VIII
2003-007 5-13-03     97.02
2003-008 5-22-03     53.15 -
                     53.22
2003-010 7-15-03     111.01
2003-011 9-25-03     153.55 -
                     153.59
2003-012 10-14-03    36.40 -
                     36.42
2003-013 11-11-03    52.064
2003-014 11-11-03    31.21
2003-015 11-11-03    T.S.O. IV
2004-002 3-9-04      T.S.O. VIII
2004-003 5-11-04     36.60 -
                     36.64
2004-005 5-21-04     52.101
2004-006 5-21-04     54.02
2004-008 8-2-04      54.02
2004-009 8-2-04      52.101
2004-010 8-2-04      51.01
2005-001 2-22-05     50.02
2005-002 2-22-05     50.26
2005-003 2-22-05     50.41
2005-004 6-14-05     35.15 -
                     35.17
2005-007 12-13-05    152.01
2005-008 12-21-05    T.S.O. IV
2006-001 5-2-06      92.30
2006-003 7-18-06     91.072
2006-004 8-8-06      T.S.O. II
2006-005 11-14-06    T.S.O. VI
                     99.01 -
2006-006 12-12-06    99.09,
                     99.98,
                     99.99
                     150.35,
2007-002 3-13-07     150.36,
                     150.99
                     37.04,
2007-004 7-10-07     37.05,
                     37.08
                     110.01 -
2007-005 12-18-07    110.12,
                     110.99
                     50.26,
2008-001 1-29-08     50.40,
                     50.41
2008-002 1-29-08     T.S.O. VI
2008-003 5-13-08     T.S.O. VI
2008-004 5-13-08     Adopting Ordinance
2008-006 6-10-08     120.01
2009-001 5-12-09     T.S.O. I
2009-002 5-12-09     T.S.O. VIII
2009-003 5-12-09     37.05
2009-004 5-12-09     54.02
                     121.001-
                     121.005,
                     121.020-
                     121.024,
                     121.035-121.045,
                     121.060-
2009-006 7-6-09      121.067,
                     121.080-
                     121.087,
                     121.100,
                     121.101,
                     121.115-
                     121.117,
                     121.999
2009-001 10-13-09    T.S.O. I
2009-007 11-10-09    150.05
2009-008 11-10-09    54.03
2010-001 5-26-10     37.05
2010-003 11-9-10     T.S.O. I
2010-004 11-9-10     T.S.O. I
2010-005 11-9-10     T.S.O. I
2010-006 11-9-10     T.S.O. I
2011-002 3-23-11     T.S.O. IV
2011-003 4-12-11     37.05
2011-004 4-12-11     T.S.O. II
2011-006 10-11-11    T.S.O. I
2011-007 12-22-11    T.S.O. I
2012-001 3-26-12     37.05
2012-002 4-23-12     53.21
2013-001 4-9-13      37.05
                     121.037 -
2013-003 12-2-13     121.040,
                     121.080,
                     121.101
2014-003 7-8-14      T.S.O. IV
                     121.004,
2014-004 8-12-14     121.037,
                     121.115,
                     121.116
2015-002 3-10-15     32.21
2015-003 3-23-15     110.03
2015-004 4-13-15     37.05
2015-005 6-8-15      T.S.O. I
2015-007 9-15-15     151.01 -
                     151.67
2015-008 11-9-15     T.S.O. I
2016-002 9-12-16     152.01
2017-001 2-13-17     110.03
2017-002 4-13-17     54.02
2017-003 4-13-17     52.101
                     116.02 -
                     116.05,
2017-004 4-13-17     116.17,
                     116.19,
                     116.21
2017-006 6-14-17     121.037,
                     121.080
2017-007 7-24-17     T.S.O. II
2017-008 7-24-17     115.02,
                     155.01
2017-009 7-24-17     40.01 -
                     40.16
                    
 
