PARK HILLS, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-10 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 9, 2024, passed 8-12-2024; and
State legislation current through KRS 2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 3, 2016
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF PARK HILLS, IN KENTON COUNTY, KENTUCKY, REVISING,
AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE.
   WHEREAS, the present general ordinances of the City of Park Hills are
incomplete and inadequate and the manner of arrangement, classification and
indexing thereof is insufficient to meet the immediate needs of the City; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the Commonwealth of Kentucky empower
and authorize the Legislative Body of this City to revise, amend, restate,
codify and to compile any existing ordinance or ordinances and all new
ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate the
ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF PARK HILLS, KENTUCKY:
SECTION l
   The general ordinances of the City of Park Hills as herein revised, amended,
restated, codified, and compiled in book form are adopted as and shall
constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Park Hills."
SECTION 2
   The Code as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the following titles:
Title I:   General Provisions
Title III:   Administration
Title V:   Public Works
Title VII:   Traffic Code
Title IX:   General Regulations
Title XI:   Business Regulations
Title XIII:   General Offenses
Title XV:   Land Usage
SECTION 3
   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in the Code shall be
deemed repealed from and after the effective date of the Code, except as they
are included and reordained in whole or in part in the Code; provided that such
repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty incurred or any right
established prior to the effective date of the Code, nor shall such repeal
affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money,
annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises or granting special
rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the
issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of
real or personal property, granting or accepting easements or plats, accepting
dedications of land to public use, vacating or setting the boundaries of
streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal affect any other
ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not
contained in or covered by the Code.
SECTION 4
   The Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and
approval by the City Legislative Body and the Clerk of the City of Park Hills
is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of the Code in the Office of
the City Clerk.
SECTION 5
   The Code shall be in full force and effect from and after its date of
passage, approval and publication as required by law. The Code shall be
presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the ordinance and all
provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein contained, and of the
date of passage, and that the same is properly signed, attested, recorded and
approved, and that any public hearings and notices thereof as required by law
have been given.
Passed by City Council this 8th of February, 2016.
 
                     CITY OF PARK HILLS, KENTUCKY
                  By: /s/ Matthew Mattone
                     Matthew Mattone, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Julie Alig
Julie Alig, City Clerk
FIRST READING: 1/11/16
SECOND READING: 2/8/16
PUBLICATION:
ORDINANCE NO. 4, 2016
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF PARK HILLS, IN KENTON COUNTY, KENTUCKY, ENACTING
AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF PARK HILLS,
KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2015 S-1 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Park
Hills, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF PARK HILLS, KENTUCKY:
SECTION 1
   That the 2015 S-1 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Park
Hills, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
SECTION 2
   That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its
date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed by City Council this 8th of February, 2016.
                     CITY OF PARK HILLS, KENTUCKY
                  By: /s/ Matthew Mattone
                     Matthew Mattone, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Julie Alig
Julie Alig, City Clerk
FIRST READING: 1/11/16
SECOND READING: 2/8/16
PUBLICATION:
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
   
10.19   Interpretations
   
10.20   Application to future legislation
   
10.21   Territorial application
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the Park
Hills Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted. Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to those
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(52))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code, shall
denote the City of Park Hills irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   CLERK/TREASURER. The Clerk/Treasurer of the City of Park Hills.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNCIL. The city legislative body.
(KRS 83A.010(5))
   COUNTY. Kenton County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor.
(KRS 83A.010(6))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, includes all those incorporated or formed by
authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   GOVERNOR. The Governor of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Council member.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes,
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, or camelid
species.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Park Hills, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH.
(KRS 446.010(28))
   OWNER. As applied to a building, land, or any other property, shall include
any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint
tenant of the whole, or part of such building, land, or other property either
alone or with others.
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited PARTNERSHIPS.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers, and other persons with similar authority
to make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even-numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected, and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN. Includes affirmed in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Exists when there is an unexpired part of a term of
office without a lawful incumbent therein, when the person elected or appointed
to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has been no
election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies whether
the VACANCY is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the state,
county, city, or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
(2010 Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to that meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   (1)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order
of court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act,
event, or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is
not to be included.
      (2)   The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned.
      (3)   When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less than seven
days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded in
the computation.
   (B)   (1)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act
to be done either at a certain time before an event or a certain time before
the day on which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in
computing the time.
      (2)   If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is
required to be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on
which the public office in which the act is required to be completed is
actually and legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none
of the days just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR NOTICE shall mean the
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include those acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part;
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council, as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment,
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances
until Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.52 should be used by the city to amend, add, or repeal a chapter, section,
or division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error be discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any word or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the
intention of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no
meaning can be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or
words was clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be
corrected, and the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will
conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same
effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as originally
published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for-word the same as the statute. Example:
(KRS 83A.090)
   (C)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.19 INTERPRETATIONS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided herein or by law or implication required,
the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as that which govern the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (B)   Where a section of this code is followed by a reference to the
Kentucky Revised Statutes, such reference indicates that the section is
analogous, derived from, or similar to such Kentucky Revised Statutes section.
(2010 Code, § 10.02)
§ 10.20 APPLICATION FOR FUTURE LEGISLATION.
   The provisions of this title, not incompatible with future legislation,
shall apply to ordinances hereafter adopted, amending, or supplementing this
code unless otherwise specifically provided.
(2010 Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.21 TERRITORIAL APPLICATION.
   This code is limited in application to the territorial boundaries of the
city, a municipal corporation, body-politic, and the city of the fourth class.
(2010 Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation, and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
Cross-reference:
   City Code Enforcement and Nuisance Board, see §
30.999
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see KRS 83A.065
   Maximum fine for violations, see KRS 534.040(2)(c)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
31.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
32.   MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.001   Definitions
Elected Officers
   
30.015   Mayor
   
30.016   Council member
   
30.017   Election procedure
   
30.018   Removal for misconduct, inability, or neglect
   
30.019   Creation of office
   
30.020   Abolition of office
   
30.021   Mayor and/or Council vacancy procedure
   
30.022   Mayor Pro Tem
Non-Elected Officers
   
30.035   Appointment and removal
   
30.036   City Clerk/Treasurer
   
30.037   City Attorney
   
30.038   City Engineer
   
30.039   City Zoning Administrator/Building Inspector
   
30.040   Chief of Police
   
30.041   City Electrical Inspectors
   
30.042   Other non-elected offices
   
30.043   Conservation/Tree Board
Compensation of Officers and Employees
   
30.055   Elected officers
   
30.056   Appointed officers
   
30.057   City employees
   
30.058   Fees and commissions
Life Squad
   
30.070   Cost
Police
   
30.085   Training cost
   
30.086   Rank structure
Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board
   
30.100   Purpose
   
30.101   Definitions
   
30.102   Enforcement powers
   
30.103   Powers of the Joint Code Enforcement Board
   
30.104   Creation and membership
   
30.105   Appointment of members; term of office; removal from office; oath;
compensation; organization of Board; meetings; quorum; conflict of interest;
minutes and records
   
30.106   Enforcement proceedings
   
30.107   Hearings; notice and final order
   
30.108   Presentation of cases
   
30.109   Appeals; final judgement
   
30.110   Liens; fines, charges, and fees
   
30.111   Ordinance fine schedule
   
30.112   Lienholder notification system
   
30.113   Liens
   
30.114   Immediate action
 
   
30.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Health and Sanitation, see
Ch. 91
   Mayor and City Council, see
Ch. 32
   Personnel Policies, see
Ch. 31
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MUNICIPAL ORDER. An official act of Council which is binding upon the
officers and employees of the municipality and any governmental agency over
which the municipality has jurisdiction.
   OFFICER. Any person elected to a position by the voters or any person
appointed to a position that:
      (1)   Is created by the Constitution, the General Assembly, or the city;
      (2)   Possesses a delegation of a portion of the sovereign power of
government;
      (3)   Has powers and duties to be discharged which are conferred directly
or by implication by the city;
      (4)   Has duties performed independently and without control of a
superior power other than law;
      (5)   Has some permanency;
      (6)   Requires an official oath;
      (7)   Is assigned by a commission or other written authority; and
      (8)   Provides for an official bond if required by proper authority.
   ORDINANCE. An official action of Council which is a regulation of a general
and permanent nature and enforceable as a law or is an appropriation of money.
   PROFESSIONAL CONTRACTOR. The persons serving as the City Attorney and the
City Engineer.
   SUMMARY. A brief narrative prepared under the supervision of the City
Attorney succinctly covering the main points of an official statement,
ordinance, or rule in a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a
clear and understandable manner as to its meaning.
(KRS 83A.010) (2010 Code, § 30.01) (Ord. 1, 2012, passed 3-12-2012)
ELECTED OFFICERS
§ 30.015 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor shall be elected by the voters of
the city at a regular election in even-numbered years for a term of office of
four years which shall begin on the first Monday of January following his or
her election and shall be for four years and until his or her successor
qualifies.
(KRS 83A.040(1))
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 25 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, Council shall
fill the vacancy within 30 days, or the Governor shall promptly fill the
vacancy by appointment pursuant to KRS 83A.040(5).
(2010 Code, § 30.10)
§ 30.016 COUNCIL MEMBER.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Council member shall be elected at-
large by the voters of the city at a regular election in the even-numbered
years for terms of two years. His or her term of office shall begin on the
first Monday of January following his or her election and shall be for two
years and until his or her successor qualifies.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
   (C)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on Council occur in a way that one
or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall, within 30 days,
fill the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice
of his or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with the
remaining members in making further appointments until all vacancies are
filled. If vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor
shall appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute
a quorum. Remaining vacancies shall be filled as provided in this section.
(KRS 83A.040(3), (4), and (5))
   (D)   Appointments. If the vacancy is not filled within 30 days after it
occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill the vacancy by appointment pursuant to
KRS 83A.040(5).
(2010 Code, § 30.11)
§ 30.017 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   The nomination and election of candidates for city office in a non-partisan
election within the city shall be conducted pursuant to the following
provisions.
   (A)   There shall be a non-partisan primary election for the nomination of
candidates to city office regardless of the number of candidates running for
each office.
   (B)   All candidates must file their nomination papers with the County Clerk
no less than 68 days before the day fixed by KRS Ch. 118 for holding a regular
election to be entitled to appear on the ballot.
   (C)   All nomination papers shall be filed no later than 4:00 p.m. local
time when filed on the last day on which such papers are permitted to be filed.
   (D)   The election of candidates to city office shall be governed by the
provisions of this section, KRS 83A.175(2) to (7), and KRS Chs. 116 to 121.
   (E)   Candidates for city office shall not be required to make pre-election
reports to the Registry of Election Finance pursuant to KRS 121.180, but shall
be required to make post-election reports within 30 days after the regular
election in November.
   (F)   The number of candidates equal to the number of city offices to be
filled who receive the highest number of votes cast in the regular election for
each city office shall be elected.
   (G)   All candidates shall be subject to all other applicable election laws
pursuant to KRS Ch. 83A and KRS Chs. 116 to 121.
   (H)   If a vacancy occurs in a candidacy for city office after the
expiration of time for filing nomination papers due to death, incapacitation,
or withdrawal of a candidate, the vacancy in candidacy shall be filled in the
following manner.
      (1)   If the vacancy in candidacy occurs less than 68 days, but more than
30 days prior to the regular election, then candidates shall file petitions of
nomination to fill the vacancy with the County Clerk not less than 30 days
prior to the regular election.
      (2)   If the vacancy in candidacy occurs less than 30 days prior to the
regular election and there are no remaining candidates running to fill the
office for which a vacancy has occurred, then the office shall remain vacant
until after the regular election, and if no person is elected to the office by
write-in ballots at the regular election, the vacancy and office shall be
filled temporarily by the officer or body designated by law to fill the
appointment.
(2010 Code, § 30.12)
§ 30.018 REMOVAL FOR MISCONDUCT, INABILITY, OR NEGLECT.
   Any elected officer, in case of misconduct, inability, or willful neglect in
the performance of the duties of his or her office, may be removed from office
by a unanimous vote of the members of Council exclusive of any member to be
removed, who shall not vote in the deliberation of his or her removal. No
elected officer shall be removed without having been given the right to a full
public hearing. The officer, if removed, shall have the right to appeal to the
Circuit Court of the county and the appeal shall be on the record. No officer
so removed shall be eligible to fill the office vacated before the expiration
of the term to which he or she was originally elected.
(KRS 83A.040(6)) (2010 Code, § 30.13)
§ 30.019 CREATION OF OFFICE.
   No elected office shall be created.
(KRS 83A.080(4)) (2010 Code, § 30.14)
§ 30.020 ABOLITION OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on the effective date
of this subchapter shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the
offices of Mayor and Council member may not be abolished.
   (B)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (C)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
(KRS 83A.080(3)) (2010 Code, § 30.15)
§ 30.021 MAYOR AND/OR COUNCIL VACANCY PROCEDURE.
   Effective January 1, 2019, the filling of vacancies in the offices of the
Mayor and/or Council Member shall be conducted pursuant to the following
provisions.
   (A)   Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the offices of the Mayor and/or
Council Member, the City Clerk shall promptly publish notice of the vacancy.
The publication shall comply with KRS Ch. 424, and shall also include a request
that interested candidates submit an application to fill the vacancy. The
application shall consist of a signed, written letter to the City Clerk
expressing the candidate’s interest in filling the vacancy.
   (B)   The City Council shall follow the following procedures to fill a
vacancy in the office of Council Member.
      (1)   The City Council and Mayor shall offer all persons who submitted
applications to fill the vacancy up to five minutes to address City Council at
a public meeting held to fill a vacancy in the office of Council Member.
      (2)   The City Council shall follow the following procedure when voting
to fill a vacancy in the office of Council Member.
         (a)   If a candidate ran in the preceding regular election, the City
Council shall vote on such candidate first. If more than one candidate ran in
the preceding election, the City Council shall vote on the candidate who
received the most votes of the unsuccessful candidates in the preceding regular
election.
         (b)   If a candidate is not selected pursuant to division (B)(2)(a),
the City Council may vote on any remaining candidates. No preference shall be
given to a candidate based on when the candidate expressed her/her intent to
apply for the vacancy.
   (C)   The procedure set forth in division (B) shall not apply to the filling
of a vacancy in the office of the Mayor. With the exception of the procedures
set forth in division (A) and in the Kentucky Revised Statutes, the City
Council is not bound by any procedure with respect to the filling of a vacancy
in the office of the Mayor.
(Ord. 2, 2018, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 30.022 MAYOR PRO TEM.
   (A)   Creation. The position of Mayor Pro Tem is created and is synonymous
with the term “Vice Mayor.”
   (B)   Selection. The Mayor Pro Tem shall be selected as follows: The Council
member receiving the highest number of votes in the most recent City Council
election shall serve as Mayor Pro Tem. If the Council member declines
acceptance, then the Council member receiving the next highest number of votes,
and so on, shall be deemed Mayor Pro Tem.
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities. The duties and responsibilities of the
Mayor Pro Tem shall be in compliance with the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (D)   Absence of Mayor. The Mayor Pro tem shall preside over meetings of the
Council in the Mayor’s absence and shall not be deemed by this section to have
been delegated any function of the Mayor which is an executive or
administrative power, duty, or responsibility.
   (E)   Compensation. The rate of compensation for acting at the Mayor Pro tem
shall remain the same.
(Ord. 8, 2022, passed 8-8-2022)
NON-ELECTED OFFICERS
§ 30.035 APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   All non-elected city officers and professional contractors shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the approval of Council.
   (B)   Such officers and professional contractors may be removed by the Mayor
at-will unless otherwise provided by statute, ordinance, or other law.
(KRS 83A.080(2))
   (C)   All officers shall take the constitutional oath of office within 30
days of receiving the notice of appointment.
(2010 Code, § 30.20) (Ord. 1, 2012, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 30.036 CITY CLERK/TREASURER.
   (A)   There is hereby established the non-elected office of full-time City
Clerk/Treasurer, pursuant to KRS 83A.080(2)(a) and KRS 83A.085.
   (B)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall be an officer of the city and take the
oath of office. His or her duties shall include:
      (1)   Attendance at all City Council meetings and taking and recording
the minutes thereof;
      (2)   Preparation and handling of the official correspondence of the city
as requested by Council;
      (3)   Preparation of annual property tax bills;
      (4)   Administration and collection of occupational taxes and license
fees;
      (5)   Preservation and safekeeping of the city’s public records,
including minute books, ordinances, contracts, and other public archives;
      (6)   Performing the duties required of the official custodian pursuant
to the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 through 61.884;
      (7)   Publication of all ordinances upon enactment;
      (8)   Preparation and advertising of bids required by Council;
      (9)   Supervising the use of the Municipal Building and maintaining
regular office hours at said building;
      (10)   Shall receive and safely keep all money belonging to the city;
      (11)   Shall pay sums as directed by order of City Council;
      (12)   Shall keep an accurate account of all receipts and disbursements
showing when, from whom, and to whom, and for what purpose, and on what account
all city funds were received or paid;
      (13)   Shall exhibit the accounts so kept;
      (14)   Shall keep a general ledger of said accounts and city funds;
      (15)   At each regular monthly meeting of City Council, shall prepare a
monthly report to the City Council with the receipts and disbursements of the
city’s funds;
      (16)   Serve as Liquor Administrator;
      (17)   Perform all duties set forth at KRS 83A.085(3); and
      (18)   Perform all other necessary and customary duties as the Mayor and
Council may direct from time to time.
   (C)   The compensation, hours, and vacation of the City Clerk/Treasurer
shall be set by the Council by ordinance.
(2010 Code, § 30.21)
§ 30.037 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   A City Attorney shall be an individual hired by the city, whose status
shall be that of an independent contractor of the city.
   (B)   The term for such City Attorney shall be determined by contract.
   (C)   The City Attorney shall be a practicing attorney and a member of the
Bar of the commonwealth and comply in all respects with the provisions of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes and Rules of the Kentucky Supreme Court.
   (D)   The duties of City Attorney shall include attendance and active
participation in all Council meetings, advising the Council and Mayor in their
meetings as to legal matters, and drafting ordinances at the direction of a
majority of Council, resolutions, and orders as required by the Mayor or
Council for adoption. He or she shall represent the interest of the city in all
actions and legal proceedings that may be brought against it, and bring all
suits and actions on its behalf as may be required by the Mayor or a majority
of Council. He or she shall perform all other legal duties required by the
Mayor or a majority of Council.
   (E)   The compensation of the City Attorney shall be determined by contract.
(2010 Code, § 30.22) (Ord. 1, 2012, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 30.038 CITY ENGINEER.
   (A)   A City Engineer shall be an individual hired by the city, whose status
shall be that of an independent contractor of the city.
   (B)   The term of such City Engineer shall be determined by contract.
   (C)   The City Engineer shall be a person who is a licensed professional
engineer in the commonwealth. The City Engineer may utilize the services of
individuals with whom he or she is employed and who are under his or her
supervision. The firm for which the City Engineer may be employed must be
licensed and permitted to practice the profession of engineering within the
commonwealth.
   (D)   The City Engineer shall perform all engineering functions that may be
required by the Mayor or a majority of Council.
   (E)   The compensation of the City Engineer shall be determined by contract.
(2010 Code, § 30.23) (Ord. 1, 2012, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 30.039 CITY ZONING ADMINISTRATOR/BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   There is hereby established the office of City Zoning Administrator/
Building Inspector, pursuant to KRS 83A.080, who shall take the oath of office
prior to assuming his or her office.
   (B)   The term of office shall be for a period of two years running
concurrently with the terms of Council members from January 1 of the first year
until December 31 of the second year or until his or her successor shall be
appointed and qualified.
   (C)   The City Zoning Administrator/Building Inspector shall be a person who
is knowledgeable in the field of buildings and building construction.
   (D)   The duties of the City Zoning Administrator/Building Inspector shall
include those specified in the zoning code and other parts of this section and
other ordinances of the city and all other duties as may be required by City
Council.
   (E)   The compensation of the City Zoning Administrator/Building Inspector
shall be set by ordinance.
   (F)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the duties and responsibilities of the
City Zoning Administrator/Building Inspector may be delegated by appropriate
legislation to the regional planning commission having jurisdiction or
authority over the county.
(2010 Code, § 30.24) (Ord. 1, 2012, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 30.040 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   Office established. There is hereby established the office of Chief of
Police, pursuant to KRS 83A.080, who shall take the oath of office prior to
assuming his or her office.
   (B)   Full-time. The Chief of Police shall be a full-time officer.
   (C)   Minimum requirement. The minimum requirements for the Chief of Police
shall include the following.
      (1)   Training and experience.
         (a)   Experience in modern police work, including supervision and
responsibility;
         (b)   An associate’s degree or additional higher education,
supplemented by formal training in modern police administration and in
scientific methods of crime prevention and detection or the equivalent
combination of experience and training which provides the required knowledge,
skills, and abilities;
         (c)   Minimum of 15-years’ experience as a full-time police officer
with experience in command/top management position;
         (d)   Certified or certifiable under the KLEFP Fund; and
         (e)   Active participant and experience in and involvement with active
patrol functions.
      (2)   Special knowledge, skills, and abilities.
         (a)   Thorough knowledge of the laws, ordinances, rules, and
regulations affecting the official capacity and operations of the Department
and the city;
         (b)   Thorough knowledge of modern police practices and techniques of
crime detection, criminal identification, and radio communication;
         (c)   Thorough knowledge of the principles and practices of modern
police administration;
         (d)   Thorough knowledge of the geographical characteristics and road
networks of the city and contiguous areas;
         (e)   Considerable knowledge of printed matter and sources of
information on police-related matters;
         (f)   Ability to carry out special and general assignments requiring
organization analysis and development of procedures and methods to maintain and
approve the effectiveness and efficiency of the Police Department;
         (g)   Ability to prepare and present clear and concise reports of
Department activities orally and in writing;
         (h)   Ability to command others and to plan, assign, supervise, and
review their work in a manner conducive to obtaining, full performance and high
morals;
         (i)   Ability to establish and maintain effective working
relationships with employees, city officials, and the general public;
         (j)   Skill in the safe and proper use of firearms and equipment used
in modern police work; and
         (k)   Possess equanimity and the physical strength and ability to
perform the duties of the position.
   (D)   Duties. The duties of Chief of Police shall include:
      (1)   Having full authority and responsibility for the financial and
other management, direction, and control of the operations and administration
of the Police Department;
      (2)   Planning, organizing, directing, and coordinating the activities of
the Police Department within the scope of accepted police techniques in guiding
laws, ordinances, and other regulations effective in the city to prevent crime
and protect life and property;
      (3)   Training and supervising all subordinate officers, as well as the
administrative staff; and
      (4)   Receiving general supervision from the Mayor and Council who review
the Department through reports, conferences, appraisals of the general
effectiveness of police work in the city, and public reaction to services
received.
      (5)   Presenting, before July 1 of each year, Police Department goals and
objectives to Council for its consideration. This shall include providing
Council with a written accounting of the status of the previous year's goals.
      (6)   Preparing the Police Department's annual proposed budget for
Council's review and approval.
      (7)   Making all operational and expenditure decisions for the Police
Department, upon Council's approval of the Police Department's budget.
      (8)   Making recommendations to the Mayor for decisions going to
employment within the Police Department, including hiring and firing.
      (9)   Controlling the use of all Police Department equipment, subject to
the policies, rules, and regulations adopted by the city or determined by state
statute.
      (10)   Meeting with the Mayor as often as necessary, but not less than
quarterly, to review the Police Chief’s performance as Chief of Police and to
discuss issues, concerns, problems, and general progress within the Department.
      (11)   Attending all regularly scheduled monthly Council meetings, and
presenting a written report describing activities, events, projects, and
concerns of the Police Department.
      (12)   Before taking any leave, designating the Lieutenant or a
replacement to be the “Officer in Charge of the Police Department.”
   (E)   Extent of services.
      (1)   The Chief of Police shall not engage in any outside part-time
employment unless he or she obtains prior written approval from the Mayor. The
Mayor shall not unreasonably withhold such approval if, in his or her sole
judgment, he or she determines such outside employment will not impair the
Chief of Police's ability to fulfill his or her responsibilities as Chief, and
no real or apparent conflict of interest or adverse public perception will
arise from the Chief of Police engaging in the proposed part-time outside
employment.
      (2)   The position of Chief of Police is exempt from the overtime
provisions of the applicable federal and state law, and the Chief of Police is
therefore not eligible for overtime pay or compensatory time for hours worked
in excess of the Department's standard work week.
      (3)   Although the Chief of Police's normal work schedule shall consist
of a 40-hour work week, the Chief s schedule may be flexible when appropriate.
The Chief of Police must set his or her schedule to have the least adverse
impact on the operations of the Department.
      (4)   If the Chief of Police is not readily available to respond to a
situation that calls for directions to be given to the Department's officers or
employees, the next senior ranking officer shall be the authorized
representative of the Police Department until the Chief of Police becomes
available to assume command.
   (F)   Dues and subscriptions. Subject to monies authorized by the City
Council through the budget and the approval of the Mayor, the City will pay for
the Police Department's professional dues and subscriptions so the Chief and
others can participate in national, regional, state, and local organizations.
These organization include, but are not limited to: the International
Association of Chiefs of Police, the National Chiefs of Police Association, the
Kentucky Association of Police Chiefs, the Northern Kentucky Police Chiefs
Association, and the Kenton County Chiefs Association.
   (G)   Professional development. Subject to monies authorized by the City
Council through the budget and the approval of the Mayor, the Chief of Police
and others may attend conferences and seminars necessary for the Police
Department's professional development, including but not limited to, the
International Association of Police Conference, the Kentucky Association of
Police Chiefs Conference, and the Kentucky Department of Criminal Justice
Training Police Executive Command Course, as well as short courses and
institutes through the FBI National Academy and/or Southern Police Institute.
   (H)   Automobile, cellular telephone, and uniform allowance.
      (1)   The city shall provide the Chief of Police a vehicle, as long as
the Police Department's resources, as determined by the Mayor, are able to
support assignment of such vehicle. The Chief of Police may use the vehicle to
respond to emergencies and report to work from the Chiefs residence to the
police station or any other location deemed as reporting for duty. The Chief of
Police may also enjoy de minimis personal use of the vehicle.
      (2)   If, due to budget constraints, or for some other reason such as
breakdowns or shortage, a city vehicle is not available, the city shall
reimburse the Chief of Police for mileage at the rate per mile established for
all employees who use personal vehicles on City businesses.
      (3)   The city shall reimburse the Chief of Police $100 per month
(payable the first pay period in June and December of each year) for the
Chief’s cellular phone service. If the Chief of Police's cellular phone is
damaged or destroyed because of his or her work, the city shall reimburse the
Chief for the replacement cost of the phone.
      (4)   The Chief of Police shall receive a uniform allowance equal to the
other officers' allowance of the city's Police Department.
   (I)   Compensation, vacation, and health insurance.
      (1)   The compensation for the Chief of Police shall be set by the
Council by ordinance.
      (2)   The Chief of Police shall be subject to the same vacation benefits
provided all other city employees, unless otherwise provided by ordinance.
      (3)   The Chief of Police shall be eligible for all health insurance
benefits received by other city employees.
      (4)   The Chief of Police shall receive longevity pay as provided other
full-time city employees.
      (5)   The Chief of Police shall be entitled to all paid holidays provided
other full-time city employees.
      (6)   The Chief of Police shall be entitled to the same amount of sick
days, personal days, bereavement and any other leave provided to other full-
time city employees, unless otherwise provided by ordinance.
   (J)   Termination. The Chief of Police may be terminated for cause only, by
the Mayor, as provided in Chapter 9, Section 3 of the city's personnel policy.
In the event of termination, the Chief of Police shall be entitled to a post-
termination hearing before Council or may appeal the decision pursuant to the
city's appeals and grievance procedures.
   (K)   (1)   Salary, compensation and vacation. The city authorizes an annual
salary in the amount of $60,320 plus $4,000 incentive pay from the Commonwealth
of Kentucky for the Chief of Police. This figure is subject to change by
ordinance or amendment to the city's then existing budget ordinance.
      (2)   The Chief shall be eligible to participate in the deferred
compensation plan through Kentucky Deferred Compensation.
      (3)   The Chief shall receive 160 hours of vacation time each year which
shall accrue on January 1 of each year. The Chief’s vacation leave shall be
carried over at year end in the same manner as other full-time employees.
(2010 Code, § 30.25) (Ord. 1, 2012, passed 3-12-2012; Ord. 10, 2012, passed 7-
9-2012; Ord. 10, 2014, passed 6-6-2014; Ord. 11, 2014, passed 6-10-2014; Ord.
6, 2018, passed 6-18-2018)
§ 30.041 CITY ELECTRICAL INSPECTORS.
   (A)   Any individual or entity who:
      (1)   Has qualified as an “Electrical Inspector” (as defined at KRS
227.450(9)); and
      (2)   Has been duly designated as a County Electrical Inspector by the
county, pursuant to KRS 227.480(3), and other applicable law (hereinafter, the
“official City Electrical Inspector”), and they are hereby designated City
Electrical Inspectors and authorized to conduct electrical inspections to
ascertain whether or not the provisions of this section and other applicable
law and standards are being fully complied with.
   (B)   Each official City Electrical Inspector shall have the right to charge
a reasonable fee, which shall be full and complete compensation for services
rendered by it in the making of said inspection, which fee shall also include
the rendering of a written report. Said fee shall be paid by the contractor or
person or persons performing or installing said electrical wiring or equipment,
and no part thereof shall be paid by the city. The fees to be charged and paid
for the inspection and the issuing of the certificate of approval, hereinafter
provided for, shall be in accordance with the recognized scale of fees charged
for similar work and inspections by the official City Electrical Inspector and
shall not be in excess thereof.
   (C)   The designation of the official City Electrical Inspectors as the
official Electrical Inspectors under this section, KRS 227.480(3), and other
applicable law, is subject to termination by the city in its sole discretion.
Any official City Electrical Inspector shall immediately cease to be designated
as such upon either:
      (1)   No longer designated as a County Electrical Inspector under KRS
227.480(3); or
      (2)   No longer being certified as an Electrical Inspector under KRS
227.489 with no further action by the city.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the person, firm, or corporation installing
electrical wiring or equipment, or repairing or rearranging the same, to notify
one of the official City Electrical Inspectors prior to the time said work is
commenced, and also when the work is ready for inspection, and it shall be
unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to conceal any such electrical
wiring or installations until after the same has been reported to one of the
official City Electrical Inspectors and has been inspected and approved by one
of the official City Electrical Inspectors, and a certificate of approval
issued by it.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, including
any electric light or power company to connect with or furnish current to any
electrical installation within the boundaries of the city until after such
electrical installation shall have been inspected and approved by one of the
official City Electrical Inspectors, and a certificate of approval issued by
it.
   (F)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to enter into agreements with each of
the official City Electrical Inspectors carrying out the terms and conditions
of this section, and other applicable laws and standards.
(2010 Code, § 30.25(A)) Penalty, see §
30.999
§ 30.042 OTHER NON-ELECTED OFFICES.
   (A)   The Council may create other non-elected city officers by ordinance.
   (B)   Such ordinances shall specify:
      (1)   The title of office;
      (2)   The powers and duties of the office;
      (3)   The oath of office;
      (4)   The bond, if required; and
      (5)   Compensation.
(2010 Code, § 30.26)
§ 30.043 CONSERVATION/TREE BOARD.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation in
public parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the city or to
which the public has free access as a park.
      STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and other woody vegetation on land
lying in rights-of-way on either side of all streets, avenues, or ways within
the city.
   (B)   City Tree Board. There is hereby created and established a Tree Board
which shall have a membership of seven persons, each of whom shall be a citizen
and resident of the city. A Chairperson and the members shall be appointed by
the Mayor with the approval by the Council.
   (C)   Term of office. The term of office of the members of the Tree Board
shall be two years. In the event a vacancy occurs during the term of any
member, a successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of the term by
the Mayor with the approval of Council.
   (D)   Compensation. Members of the Tree Board shall serve without
compensation.
   (E)   Plan. A plan submitted to Council by the Tree Board for review and
approval. The city provides plan funding.
      (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the Tree Board to study,
investigate, counsel, develop, and update annually, and administer a written
plan for the care, preservation, pruning, replanting, removal, or disposition
of park trees and street trees.
      (2)   Such plan will be presented annually to the City Council with
budget and, upon its acceptance and approval, shall constitute the official
comprehensive tree plan for the city.
      (3)   The Board, when requested by the city, shall consider, investigate,
make findings, report, and recommend upon any special matter or question coming
within the scope of its work.
      (4)   (a)   The Board shall authorize periodically an inventory utilizing
a certified arborist to identify as many park trees and street trees as allowed
by time and budget, for the purpose of creating a list of park trees and street
trees to be removed and replanted based on priority (the “tree inventory”). The
Board’s annual plan shall include the tree inventory. The tree inventory shall
identify the problem(s) associated with the park and/or street tree(s) as
follows:
 
Tree Problem Key
1 Dead or dying
2 Cavity or decay
3 Pest problem
4 Poor structure
5 Exotic invasive species
6 Other
 
      (5)   The Tree Board shall have the ability to contract with consultants,
experts and certified arborists to assist the Tree Board in identifying tree
problems and to assist in the development of the comprehensive plan.
         (b)   The City Council’s acceptance and approval of the Board’s annual
plan shall include a determination, based on the budget and the recommendations
of the Board, as to what park and/or street tree(s), if any, shall be removed
during the following year.
   (F)   Procedure and rules.
      (1)   The Board shall, with the exception of the office of Chairperson,
choose its own officers, make its own procedural rules and regulations, and
keep a journal of its activities.
      (2)   A majority of the members shall be a quorum for the transaction of
business.
   (G)   Maintenance.
      (1)   The city shall have the right, but not the duty to plant, prune,
maintain, and remove trees, plants, and shrubs within the lines of all streets,
alleys, avenues, lanes, squares, and public grounds as may be necessary to
ensure public safety or preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such
public grounds.
      (2)   The Tree Board may order to be removed any tree or part thereof
which is in an unsafe condition, or which by reason of its nature, is injurious
to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, injurious fungus, insects, or other
pests. The enforcement of such removal, replanting, pruning will be the
responsibility of the city, a city employee, officer or other official and not
the Tree Board.
   (H)   Topping.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm, or
city department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public
property. TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs
larger than three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a degree
as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
      (2)   Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees
under utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices are
impractical may be exempt from this section at the determination of the Tree
Board.
   (I)   Owner’s duties.
      (1)   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way
within the city shall prune the branches, so that such branches shall not
obstruct the light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street
intersection and so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the
surface of the street or sidewalk.
      (2)   Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased, or dangerous trees, or
broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of the public.
      (3)   The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private
property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street
from a street light or interferes with the visibility of any traffic control
device or sign.
      (4)   The city shall have the right to cause the planting of a new tree
to replace a dead or diseased tree on any street or right-of-way which has been
removed for any reason. The planting of any tree must comply with the Tree
Board's list of approved trees. Park trees and street trees removed must
include all parts of the tree including the removal of the tree stump. The
replacement tree must be planted no closer than five feet from the removed park
or street tree, or whatever is recommended for best growth.
   (J)   Removal. The city shall have the right to cause the removal of any
dead or diseased trees on private property including within abutting rights-of-
way within the city when such trees constitute a hazard to life and property,
or harbor insects or disease constituting a potential threat to other trees,
property, or persons within the city. The trees constitute an imminently
dangerous condition and may be removed pursuant to the provision set forth in §
91.25(A). Park trees and street trees removed must be replanted within one year
and replanted from the Tree Board's list of approved trees. The city shall have
the right to cause the replanting of such trees.
   (K)   Interference prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to
prevent, delay, or interfere with the Tree Board or any of its agents or
servants while engaging in and about the planting, cultivating, mulching,
pruning, spraying, or removing of any street tree, park trees, or trees on
private grounds as authorized in this section.
   (L)   License required.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the
business or occupation of pruning, treating, or removing street or park trees
within the city without first applying for an occupational license.
      (2)   No license shall be required of any public service company or city
employee doing such work in the pursuit of his, her, or its public service
endeavors.
      (3)   Before any license is issued, each applicant shall first file
evidence or possession of liability insurance in the minimum amounts of $25,000
for bodily injury and $10,000 property damage indemnifying the city of any
person injured or damaged resulting from the pursuit of such endeavors as
herein described.
   (M)   Review. The Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts,
and decisions of the Tree Board. Any person may appeal from any ruling or order
of the Tree Board to the Council who may hear the matter and make the final
decision.
(2010 Code, § 30.26(A)) (Ord. 5, 2011, passed 3-28-2011; Ord. 18, 2013, passed
12-9-2013; Ord. 17, 2017, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2, 2019, passed 4-8-2019)
Penalty, see §
30.999
COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 30.055 ELECTED OFFICERS.
   Council shall by ordinance fix the compensation of every elected city
officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in which the officer
is elected. An elected officer’s compensation shall not be changed after his or
her election or during his or her term of office.
(KRS 83A.070(1)) (2010 Code, § 30.28)
§ 30.056 APPOINTED OFFICERS.
   Council shall fix the compensation of each appointed city officer in the
ordinance that creates the office and may change it by ordinance.
(KRS 83A.070(2)) (2010 Code, § 30.29)
§ 30.057 CITY EMPLOYEES.
   Council shall fix the compensation of city employees in accordance with a
personnel and pay classification plan which shall be adopted by ordinance.
(KRS 83A.070(3)) (2010 Code, § 30.30)
§ 30.058 FEES AND COMMISSIONS.
   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid to the City Clerk/
Treasurer for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
(2010 Code, § 30.31)
LIFE SQUAD
§ 30.070 COST.
   (A)   (1)   Any person transported by the City Rescue Squad from one
location to another shall reimburse the Rescue Squad $375 for such service, and
shall reimburse the City Rescue Squad $6 per mile for transportation from one
location to another, $20 for oxygen actually used, and $250 if a defibrillator
is used.
      (2)   This reimbursement shall be paid by the person transported or his
or her parent, guardian, or other entity legally responsible for the payment of
his or her medical expenses within 30 days of the date upon which a bill for
these services is mailed by ordinary mail to said person, parent, guardian, or
other entity legally responsible for the payment of said expenses.
   (B)   Balances unpaid after 30 days from the date of billing shall bear
interest at the rate of 1% per month until the balance and interest is paid in
full.
(2010 Code, § 30.32)
POLICE
§ 30.085 TRAINING COST.
   Any police officer hired by the city required to undergo basic training, the
costs of which are paid by the city, shall, should such officer leave the
employ of the city, except for reasons of permanent disability, before the
expiration of three years from the date of completion of such basic training,
reimburse the city the costs paid by the city or payable by the city for such
basic training authorized at KRS 70.290 and other applicable law.
(2010 Code, § 30.33) (Ord. 13, 2011, passed 10-10-2011)
§ 30.086 RANK STRUCTURE.
   (A)   There is hereby established a rank structure within the Police
Department of the city from highest to lowest rank:
      (1)   Chief of Police (rank of Colonel, full-time, sworn officer);
      (2)   Lieutenant (full-time, sworn officer);
      (3)   Sergeant (full-time, sworn officer);
      (4)   Sergeant (part-time, sworn officer);
      (5)   Specialist (full-time, sworn officer);
      (6)   Police officer (full-time, sworn officer); and
      (7)   Police officer (part-time, sworn officer).
   (B)   All ranks not enumerated within division (A) above are hereby
abolished.
   (C)   All promotions within the Police Department will be made only upon the
recommendation of the Chief of Police, the appointment by the Mayor, and the
approval of City Council.
   (D)   The Chief of Police shall prepare and publish a directive addressing
the implementation of this section and the criteria for advancement within the
rank structure.
(2010 Code, § 30.34) (Ord. 11, 2012, passed 7-9-2012)
KENTON COUNTY JOINT CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
§ 30.100 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to conform to all provisions of KRS
65.8801 through 65.8839, commonly known as the “Local Government Code
Enforcement Boards Act” and any subsequent amendments thereto.
(2010 Code, § 101.01) (Ord. 6, 2016, passed 3-14-2016; Ord. 22, 2016, passed
12-12-2016)
§ 30.101 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this subchapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   ABATEMENT COSTS. A city's necessary and reasonable costs for and associated
with clearing, preventing unauthorized entry to, or demolishing all or a
portion of a structure or premises, or taking any other action with regard to a
structure or premises necessary to remedy a violation and to maintain and
preserve the public health, safety and welfare in accordance with any city
ordinance.
   JOINT CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. An administrative body created and acting
under the authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act, KRS
65.8801 to 65.8839.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A city police officer, safety officer, citation
officer, or other public law enforcement officer with the authority to issue a
citation.
   FINAL ORDER. Any order:
      (1)   Issued by the Code Enforcement Board following a hearing in
accordance with §
30.107;
      (2)   Created because a violator neither paid nor contested the citation
within seven days as provided in §
30.106; or
      (3)   Created because a violator failed to appear at a hearing the
violator requested to contest the citation as provided in §
30.107.
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
   ORDINANCE. An official action of the local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and
shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by the city
legislative body which embodies all or part of an ordinance.
   OWNER. A person, association, corporation, partnership or other legal entity
having a legal or equitable title in real property.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, including any structures upon it.
(Ord. 22, 2016, passed 12-12-2016)
§ 30.102 ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial
orders and impose civil fines as a method of enforcing city ordinances when a
violation of the ordinance has been classified as a civil offense.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Board shall not have the authority to enforce any
ordinance regulating conduct which would also, under any provision of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes, constitute a criminal offense or a moving motor
vehicle offense.
(Ord. 22, 2016, passed 12-12-2016)
§ 30.103 POWERS OF THE JOINT CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.
   The Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board shall have the powers and
duties as set forth by the Interlocal Agreement for the Kenton County Joint
Code Enforcement Board filed of record with the Kenton County Clerk in Book
C5439, Page 321 as incorporated by reference as set forth herein.
(Ord. 22, 2016, passed 12-12-2016)
§ 30.104 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 65.8811(1)(b), the city participates in a Joint Code
Enforcement Board through an Interlocal Agreement executed with other
participating city and county members. This Joint Code Enforcement Board shall
operate in lieu of a City Code Enforcement Board, and have jurisdiction and
authority throughout the city in the same manner as a City Code Enforcement
Board created under KRS 65.8811(1)(a).
   (B)   The city's representation on the Joint Code Enforcement Board is
established through the Interlocal Agreement with the participating cities and/
or Kenton County, and any and all amendments to the Interlocal Agreement. The
city shall appoint one member, and two alternate members to the Kenton County
Joint Code Enforcement Board. All appointments shall be made by the Mayor, with
approval of the City Council. Members of the Kenton County Joint Code
Enforcement Board shall serve consistent with the provisions of the Interlocal
Agreement.
   (C)   All appointments to the Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board
shall be for a term of three years. Upon expiration of a term, a member or
alternate member may be re-appointed by the Mayor, with approval by the City
Council.
   (D)   Each member and alternate member appointed by the city to the Kenton
County Joint Code Enforcement Board shall have resided within the boundaries of
the city for a period of at least one year prior to the date of the member's
appointment, and shall reside there throughout the term in office.
   (E)   In the event that the appointed member of the city vacates his/her
membership on the Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board, the city shall,
following the procedures in KRS 65.8811, fill the vacancy within 60 days. If
the Mayor has not filled the vacancy within 60 days, then the remaining member
of the Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board shall fill the vacancy with
another person who meets the qualifications in KRS 65.8811. All vacancies shall
be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (F)   Any member or alternate member appointed by the Mayor to the Kenton
County Joint Code Enforcement Board, pursuant to KRS 65.8811, may be removed by
the Mayor for misconduct, inefficiency, or willful neglect of duty. In the
event of removal, the Mayor shall submit a written statement to the member
subject to removal, and to the City Council, setting forth the reasons for
removal. The member so removed shall have the right to appeal the removal to
the Kenton County Circuit Court.
   (G)   Any member or alternate member shall, prior to entering their duties,
take the oath of office prescribed by Section 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (H)   The members of the Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board may be
compensated or reimbursed per the terms of the Interlocal Agreement, and its
amendments.
   (I)   No member or alternate member appointed by the city to the Kenton
County Joint Code Enforcement Board shall hold any elected or appointed office,
whether paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city.
   (J)   A copy of the governing Interlocal Agreement shall be maintained in
the office of the City Clerk for inspection by the public.
(Ord. 22, 2016, passed 12-12-2016)
§ 30.105 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; OATH;
COMPENSATION; ORGANIZATION OF BOARD; MEETINGS; QUORUM; CONFLICT OF INTEREST;
MINUTES AND RECORDS.
   Membership, oath and terms of office, quorum, vacancies, removal of members,
and other statutory requirements related to the Board’s activities shall be as
stated in the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act and as set forth by
the Interlocal Agreement for the Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board
(hereinafter “Interlocal Agreement”) filed of record with the Kenton County
Clerk in Book C5439, Page 321 as incorporated by reference as set forth herein.
(Ord. 22, 2016, passed 12-12-2016)
§ 30.106 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Code Enforcement Board:
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings shall only be initiated by the issuance of a
citation by a code enforcement officer.
   (B)   Except when immediate action is necessary pursuant to §
30.114, if a code enforcement officer believes, based on his personal
observation or investigation, that a person has violated a city ordinance, he
shall issue a notice of violation allowing the alleged violator a specified
period of time to remedy the violation without incurring a fine. If the alleged
violator fails or refuses to remedy the violation within the time specified,
the code enforcement officer is authorized to issue a citation.
   (C)   The code enforcement officer shall issue a citation by one of the
following methods:
      (1)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
      (2)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person 18 years of age or
older who is on the premises, if the alleged violator is not on the premises at
the time the citation is issued; or
      (3)   Posting a copy of the citation in a conspicuous place on the
premises and mailing a copy of the citation by regular, first-class mail to the
owner of record of the property, if no one is on the premises at the time the
citation is issued.
   (D)   The citation issued by the code enforcement officer shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (4)   The date and time the offense was committed;
      (5)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (6)   The section of the code or the number of the ordinance violated;
      (7)   The name of the code enforcement officer;
      (8)   The civil fine that may be imposed for the violation, including, if
applicable;
         (a)   The civil fine that will be imposed if the person does not
contest the citation; and
         (b)   The maximum civil fine that may be imposed if the person elects
to contest the citation;
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (10)    A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation within the time allowed: the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board to contest the citation; the determination that the violation
was committed shall be final: the citation as issued shall be deemed a final
order determining that the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine
as set forth in the citation; and the person shall be deemed to have waived the
right to appeal the final order to District Court.
   (E)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the code enforcement
officer shall notify the Code Enforcement Board by delivering a copy of the
citation to board Chairman.
   (F)   (1)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven days of the date of issuance by either paying the civil
fine or requesting, in writing, a hearing to contest the citation. If the
person fails to respond to the citation within seven days, the person shall be
deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a
violation was committed shall be considered final. In this event, the citation
as issued shall be deemed a final order determining that the violation was
committed and imposing the civil fine as set forth in the citation, and the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to appeal the final order to
District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the notice.
(Ord. 22, 2016, passed 12-12-2016)
§ 30.107 HEARINGS; NOTICE AND FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing has been requested, the Code Enforcement Board or its
administrative staff shall schedule a hearing.
   (B)   Not less than seven days before the date of the hearing, the Code
Enforcement Board shall notify the requester of the date, time, and place of
the hearing. The notice may be given by regular first-class mail; certified
mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at
the person's usual place of residence with any individual residing therein who
is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of the notice.
   (C)   (1)   Any person requesting a hearing who fails to appear at the time
and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to a
hearing to contest the citation, and the determination that a violation was
committed shall be final. In this event, the citation as issued shall be deemed
a final order determining the violation was committed and imposing the civil
fine set forth in the citation, and the alleged violator shall be deemed to
have waived the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the notice.
   (D)   All testimony at the hearing shall be taken under oath and recorded.
Testimony shall be taken from the code enforcement officer, the alleged
violator, and any witnesses to the violation offered by the code enforcement
officer or alleged violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but
fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (E)   The Code Enforcement Board shall, based on the evidence, determine
whether a violation was committed. If it is determined that no violation was
committed, an order dismissing the citation shall be entered. If it is
determined that a violation was committed, an order may be issued upholding the
citation. The Board may impose a fine up to the maximum authorized by
ordinance, or require the offender to remedy a continuing violation to avoid a
fine, or both.
   (F)   (1)   Every final order following a hearing shall be reduced to
writing, which shall include the findings and conclusions reached and the date
the order was issued. A copy shall be furnished to the person named in the
citation.
      (2)   If the person named in the citation is not present when the final
order is issued, the order shall be delivered to the person by regular first-
class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by
leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence with any individual
residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the
contents of the notice.
(Ord. 22, 2016, passed 12-12-2016)
§ 30.108 PRESENTATION OF CASES.
   Each case before the Code Enforcement Board may be presented by an attorney
selected by the city, a code enforcement officer for the city, or by a member
of the city’s administrative staff.
(Ord. 22, 2016, passed 12-12-2016)
§ 30.109 APPEALS; FINAL JUDGEMENT.
   (A)   An appeal from a final order of the Code Enforcement Board following a
hearing conducted pursuant to §
30.107 may be made to the Kenton County District Court within 30 days of the
date the order is issued. The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a
complaint and a copy of the final order in the same manner as any civil action
under the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   If no appeal from a final order of the Code Enforcement Board is filed
within the time period set in division (A) of this subsection, the Code
Enforcement Board’s order shall be deemed final for all purposes.
(Ord. 22, 2016, passed 12-12-2016)
§ 30.110 LIENS; FINES, CHARGES, AND FEES.
   (A)   The city delegates the Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board to
prepare and record liens on its behalf.
   (B)   The city shall possess a lien on property owned by the person found by
a non-appealable final order as defined by §
30.101, or by a final judgment of the court, to have committed a violation of a
city ordinance. The lien shall be for all civil fines assessed for the
violation and for all charges and fees incurred by the city in connection with
the enforcement of the ordinance, including abatement costs, and reasonable
attorney's fees. An affidavit of the code enforcement officer shall constitute
prima facie evidence of the amount of the lien and regularity of the
proceedings pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839.
   (C)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The lien
shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear
interest until paid. The lien shall continue for ten years following the date
of the non-appealable final order or final court judgment.
   (D)   Subject to §
30.112, the lien shall take precedence over all other liens, except state,
county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial
proceedings, including a foreclosure action.
   (E)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (A) of this section,
the person found to have committed the violation shall be personally
responsible for the amount of all civil fines assessed for the violation and
for all charges, fees and abatement costs incurred by the city in connection
with the enforcement of the ordinance, including reasonable attorney's fees.
The city may bring a civil action against the person and shall have the same
remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt.
(Ord. 22, 2016, passed 12-12-2016)
§ 30.111 ORDINANCE FINE SCHEDULE.
   Violations of ordinances that are enforced by the Kenton County Joint Code
Enforcement Board shall be subject to the schedule of civil fines as set forth
by separate ordinance.
(Ord. 22, 2016, passed 12-12-2016)
§ 30.112 LIENHOLDER NOTIFICATION SYSTEM.
   The Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board shall establish and maintain
a lienholder notification system on behalf of the city. The Kenton County Joint
Code Enforcement Board shall obtain and maintain priority over previously filed
liens, as provided in §
30.110, in accordance with the provisions of KRS 65.8836.
(Ord. 22, 2016, passed 12-12-2016)
§ 30.113 LIENS.
   (A)   A lienholder of record who has registered pursuant to §
30.112 may, within 45 days from the date of issuance of notification under §
30.112:
      (1)   Correct the violation, if it has not already been abated; or
      (2)   Pay all civil fines assessed for the violation, and all charges and
fees incurred by the city in connection with enforcement of the ordinance,
including abatement costs.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action if necessary under §
30.114.
   (C)   The lien provided by §
30.110 of this chapter shall not take precedence over previously recorded liens
if:
      (1)   The city failed to comply with the requirements of §
30.112 for notification of the final order; or
      (2)   A prior lienholder complied with division (A) of this section.
   (D)   A lien that does not take precedence over previously recorded liens
under division (C) of this section shall, if the final order remains partially
unsatisfied, continue to take precedence over all other subsequent liens except
liens for state, county, school board and city taxes.
   (E)   The city may record a lien before the 45 day period established in
division (A) of this section expires. If the lien is fully satisfied prior to
the expiration of the 45 day period, the city shall release the lien in the
County Clerk's office where the lien is recorded within 15 days of
satisfaction.
   (F)   Failure of the city to comply with §§
30.110 and
30.112, or failure of a lien to take precedence over previously filed liens as
provided in division (C) of this section, shall not limit or restrict any other
remedies the city has against the property of the violator.
(Ord. 22, 2016, passed 12-12-2016)
§ 30.114 IMMEDIATE ACTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the city from taking immediate action
to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is reason to believe that
the violation presents a serious threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of the violation
will be irreparable or irreversible.
(Ord. 22, 2016, passed 12-12-2016)
§ 30.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
30.043 shall be, upon conviction or a plea of guilty, subject to a civil
penalty not to exceed $500.
(2010 Code, § 30.26(A))
   (C)   Each section of a code or ordinance violated under §§
30.100 through
30.114 shall be considered a separate finable offense. If two or more sections
of a code or ordinance are violated, the fines shall be cumulative and be
enforced under the same citation. Each day a violation exists shall be
considered a separate offense upon issuance of a separate citation. Upon the
issuance of the fifth citation for the same violation, each day that the
violation continues thereafter shall be considered a separate offense without
the need for the issuance of any additional citations.
(2010 Code, § 101.08) (Ord. 22, 2016, passed 12-12-2016)
CHAPTER 31: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
Personnel Policies
   
31.001   Adoption
   
31.002   Revised policy
Code of Ethics
   
31.015   Title
   
31.016   Findings
   
31.017   Purpose and authority
   
31.018   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
31.030   Conflicts of interest in general
   
31.031   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
31.032   Receipts of gifts
   
31.033   Use of city property, equipment, and personnel
   
31.034   Representation of interest before city government
   
31.035   Misuse of confidential information
   
31.036   Post-employment restriction
   
31.037   Honoraria
Financial Disclosure
   
31.050   Who must file
   
31.051   When to file statements; amended statements
   
31.052   Form of statement of financial interest
   
31.053   Control and maintenance of the statement of financial interest
   
31.054   Contents of financial interest statement
   
31.055   Noncompliance with filing requirements
Nepotism
   
31.070   Nepotism prohibited
Enforcement
   
31.085   Northern Kentucky Regional Ethics Authority (Board of Ethics)
   
31.086   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
31.087   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
 
   
31.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Officers, Employees, and Organizations, see
Ch. 30
PERSONNEL POLICIES
§ 31.001 ADOPTION.
   The personnel policy, a full copy of which is on file with the City Clerk/
Treasurer’s office, is hereby adopted as the official personnel policy of the
city, including all amendments made by the Personnel Policy Committee.
(2010 Code, § 30.34) (Ord. 15, 2010, passed - -; Ord. 11, 2011, passed 7-25-
2011; Ord. 17, 2011, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 6, 2013, passed 4-29-2013; Ord. 7,
2016, passed 11-14-2016; Ord. 4, 2021, passed 4-12- 2021; Ord. 4, 2024, passed
5-13-2024; Ord. 8, 2024, passed 8-12-2024)
§ 31.002 REVISED POLICY.
   (A)   The revised policies and procedures shall be the system of personnel
administration for the city.
   (B)   The policies and procedures may be waived, altered, or suspended only
by ordinance.
(2010 Code, § 30.35) (Ord. 15, 2010, passed - -; Ord. 11, 2011, passed 7-25-
2011; Ord. 17, 2011, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 6, 2013, passed 4-29-2013)
CODE OF ETHICS
§ 31.015 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Park Hills
Code of Ethics”.
(2010 Code, § 30.36)
§ 31.016 FINDINGS.
   The legislative body of the city finds and declares that:
   (A)   Public office and employment with the city, and service as City
Attorney and City Engineer, are public trusts;
   (B)   The vitality and stability of the government of this city depends upon
the public’s confidence in the integrity of its elected and appointed officers,
employees, and professional contractors. Whenever the public perceives a
conflict between the private interests and public duties of a city officer,
employee, or professional contractor, that confidence is imperiled; and
   (C)   The government of this city has a duty to provide its citizens with
standards by which it may determine whether public duties are being faithfully
performed, and to make its officers, employees, and professional contractors
aware of the standards that the citizenry rightfully expects them to comply
with while conducting their public duties.
(2010 Code, § 30.37) (Ord. 1, 2012, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 31.017 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide a method of assuring
that standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for
officers, employees, and the professional contractors of the city shall be
clearly established, uniform in their application, and enforceable, and to
provide the officers, employees, and professional contractors of the city with
advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest which might
arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this subchapter to meet the requirements
of KRS Ch. 65.
   (C)   This subchapter is enacted under KRS 65.003, the power vested in the
city of KRS 82.082, and pursuant to requirements of KRS Ch. 65.
(2010 Code, § 30.38) (Ord. 1, 2012, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 31.018 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF ETHICS. The Northern Kentucky Regional Ethics Authority which is
created and vested by this subchapter with the responsibility of enforcing the
requirements of the City Code of Ethics.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation, or any legal entity through which BUSINESS is conducted for
profit.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city office.
An individual is a CANDIDATE when the individual files a notification and
declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk/Treasurer or
Secretary of State, is nominated for office by a political party, or files a
declaration of intent to be a write-in candidate with the County Clerk/
Treasurer or Secretary of State.
   CITY. The City of Park Hills, Kentucky.
   CITY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, non-stock corporation, or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by the city.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides services to the city. The term EMPLOYEE
shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of their employees.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent, or grandchild.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in the
officer’s or employee’s household, or a person claimed by the officer or
employee, or the officer’s or employee’s spouse, as a dependent for tax
purposes.
   OFFICER. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   A Council member;
      (3)   The City Clerk/Treasurer and any assistant or Deputy City Clerk/
Treasurer;
      (4)   Any person who occupies a non-elected office created by the City
Council pursuant to KRS 83A.080; or
      (5)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency.
   PROFESSIONAL CONTRACTOR. The persons serving as the City Attorney and the
City Engineer.
(2010 Code, § 30.39) (Ord. 1, 2012, passed 3-12-2012)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 31.030 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN GENERAL.
   Every officer, employee, or professional contractor of the city, and every
city agency shall comply with the following standards of conduct.
   (A)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of any officer,
employee, or professional contractor shall have an interest in a business or
engage in any business, transaction, or activity which is in substantial
conflict with the proper discharge of the officer’s, employee’s, or
professional contractor’s public duties.
   (B)   No officer, employee, or professional contractor shall intentionally
use or attempt to use his or her official position with the city to secure
unwarranted privileges or advantages for himself or herself or others.
   (C)   No officer, employee, or professional contractor shall intentionally
take or refrain from taking any discretionary action, or agree to take or
refrain from taking any discretionary action, or induce or attempt to induce
any other officer, employee, or professional contractor to take or refrain from
taking any discretionary action, on any matter before the city to obtain a
financial benefit for any of the following:
      (1)   The officer, employee, or professional contractor;
      (2)   A family member;
      (3)   An outside employer;
      (4)   Any business in which the officer, employee, or professional
contractor, or any family member has a financial interest; and/or
      (5)   Any business with which the officer, employee, or professional
contractor, or any family member is negotiating or seeking prospective
employment or other business or professional relationship.
   (D)   No officer, employee, or professional contractor shall be deemed in
violation of any provision in this section if, by reason of the officer’s,
employee’s, or professional contractor’s participation, vote, decision, action,
or inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the officer, employee, or
professional contractor, a family member, an outside employer, or a business as
defined in divisions (C)(4) and (C)(5) above, as a member of any business,
occupation, profession, or other group to any greater extent than any gain
could reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member of the business,
occupation, profession, or other group.
   (E)   Every officer, employee, or professional contractor who has a
prohibited financial interest that the officer, employee, or professional
contractor believes or has reason to believe may be affected by his or her
participation, vote, decision, or other action taken within the scope of his or
her public duties shall disclose the precise nature of the interest, in
writing, to the governing body of the city or city agency served by the
officer, employee, or professional contractor, and the disclosure shall be
entered on the official record of the proceedings of the governing body. The
officer, employee, or professional contractor shall refrain from taking action
with respect to the matter that is the subject of the disclosure.
(2010 Code, § 30.40) (Ord. 1, 2012, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 31.031 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   No officer, employee, or professional contractor of the city or any
city agency shall directly or through others undertake, execute, hold, or
enjoy, in whole or in part, any contract made, entered into, awarded, or
granted by the city or a city agency with certain exceptions.
      (1)   The prohibition in this division (A) shall not apply to contracts
entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for city office,
before an appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency office,
before an employee was hired by the city or a city agency, or before the
professional contractor was retained by the city as a professional contractor.
However, if any contract entered into by a city or city agency, officer,
employee, or professional contractor before he or she became a candidate, was
appointed to office, was hired as an employee, or was retained as a
professional contractor is renewable after he or she becomes a candidate,
assumes the appointed office, is hired as an employee, or is retained as a
professional contractor, then the prohibition in this division (A) shall apply
to the renewal of the contract.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (A) shall not apply if the
contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the
officer, employee, or professional contractor is authorized to participate in
establishing the contract specifications, awarding the contract, or managing
contract performance after the contract is awarded. If the officer, employee,
or professional contractor has any of the authorities set forth in the
preceding sentence, then the officer, employee, or professional contractor
shall have no interest in the contract, unless the requirements set forth in
division (A)(3) below are satisfied.
      (3)   The prohibition in this division (A) shall not apply in any case
where the following requirements are satisfied.
         (a)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer’s, employee’s, or professional contractor’s interest or
potential profit in the contract are publicly disclosed at a meeting of the
governing body of the city or city agency.
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
         (c)   A finding is made by a unanimous vote of the governing body of
the city or city agency that the contract with the officer, employee, or
professional contractor is in the best interest of the public and the city or
city agency because of price, limited supply, or other specific reasons.
         (d)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
      (4)   Nothing within this division (A) shall prevent the professional
contractors from entering into personal service contracts with the city or a
city agency pursuant to §
30.037 (City Attorney) and §
30.038 (City Engineer).
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor,
and upon conviction, the court may void any contract entered into in violation
of this section. Additionally, a violation of this section shall be grounds for
removal from office, employment, or engagement with the city in accordance with
any applicable provision of state law and ordinances, rules, or regulations of
the city. Upon any violation of this section, the city may seek appropriate
remedies and relief against the offending officer, employee, or contractor in
any court of competent jurisdiction including, without limitation, obtaining
declaratory relief to void any contract in violation of this section or
disgorgement of all revenues, economic benefits or gains, or other
consideration obtained by any officer, employee, professional contractor, or
other person or entity from any contract in violation of this section.
(2010 Code, § 30.41) (Ord. 1, 2012, passed 3-12-2012) Penalty, see §
31.999
§ 31.032 RECEIPTS OF GIFTS.
   No officer, employee, or professional contractor of the city or any city
agency shall directly, or indirectly through any other person or business,
solicit or accept any gift having a fair market value of more than $100,
whether in the form of money, service, loan, travel, entertainment,
hospitality, thing or promise, or any other form, where the gift was intended
to influence, or could reasonably be expected to influence the officer,
employee, or professional contractor in the performance of his or her public
duties, except campaign contributions.
(2010 Code, § 30.42) (Ord. 1, 2012, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 31.033 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT, AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer, employee, or professional contractor of the city shall use or
permit the use of any city time, funds, personnel, equipment, or other personal
or real property for the private use of any person unless the use is
specifically authorized by a stated city policy, or the use is available to the
general public, and then only to the extent and upon the terms that such use is
available to the general public.
(2010 Code, § 30.43) (Ord. 1, 2012, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 31.034 REPRESENTATION OF INTEREST BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No officer, employee, or professional contractor of the city or any
city agency shall represent any person or business, other than the city, in
connection with any cause, proceeding, application, or other matter pending
before the city or any city agency; provided, however, that the professional
contractors:
      (1)   May represent other public or quasi-public entities (for example,
utility companies) in conjunction with the performance of his or her duties; or
      (2)   May represent other private entities after full disclosure to
Council and receiving its unanimous consent.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an employee from representing
another employee or employees where the representation is within the context of
official labor union or similar representational responsibilities.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer, employee, or
professional contractor from representing himself or herself in matters
concerning his or her own interest.
   (D)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward,
or other thing of value is promised to, given to, or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(2010 Code, § 30.44) (Ord. 1, 2012, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 31.035 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No officer, employee, or professional contractor of the city or any city
agency shall intentionally use or disclose information acquired in the course
of his or her official duties, if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure
is to further his or her personal financial interest or that of another person
or business. Information shall be deemed confidential if it is not subject to
disclosure pursuant to the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 to 61.884, at
the time of its use or disclosure.
(2010 Code, § 30.45) (Ord. 1, 2012, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 31.036 POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTION.
   No officer, employee, or professional contractor of the city or any city
agency shall appear or practice before the city or any city agency with respect
to any matter on which the officer, employee, or professional contractor
personally worked while in the service of the city or city agency for a period
of one year after the termination of the officer’s or employee’s service with
the city or city agency or professional contractor’s service.
(2010 Code, § 30.46) (Ord. 1, 2012, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 31.037 HONORARIA.
   (A)   No officer, employee, or professional contractor of the city or a city
agency shall accept any compensation, honorarium, or gift with a fair market
value greater than $100 in consideration of an appearance, speech, or article
unless the appearance, speech, or article is both related to the officer’s,
employee’s, or professional contractor’s activities outside of municipal
service and is unrelated to the officer’s, employee’s, or professional
contractor’s service with the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an officer, employee, or
professional contractor of the city or any city agency from receiving and
retaining from the city or on behalf of the city actual and reasonable out-of-
pocket expenses incurred by the officer, employee, or professional contractor
in connection with an appearance, speech, or article, provided that the
officer, employee, or professional contractor can show by clear and convincing
evidence that the expenses were incurred or received on behalf of the city or
city agency and primarily for the benefit of the city or city agency and not
primarily for the benefit of the officer, employee, or professional contractor
or any other person.
(2010 Code, § 30.47) (Ord. 1, 2012, passed 3-12-2012)
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 31.050 WHO MUST FILE.
   The following classes of officers and employees of the city and city
agencies shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the Board
of Ethics:
   (A)   Elected city officials;
   (B)   Candidates for elected city office;
   (C)   Members of the City Planning and Zoning Commission and Board of
Adjustments;
   (D)   Members of the Board of Ethics created by this section; and
   (E)   Non-elected officers and employees of the city or any city agency who
are authorized to make purchases of materials or services, or award contracts,
leases, or agreements involving the expenditure of more than $500 of public
funds.
(2010 Code, § 30.48)
§ 31.051 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   A statement of financial interests required by this section shall be
filed with the Board of Ethics or the designated administrative office no later
than 5:00 p.m. on April 30 of each year, provided that:
      (1)   An officer or employee newly-appointed to fill an office or
position of employment with the city or a city agency shall file his or her
initial statement no later than 30 days after the date of the appointment; and
      (2)   The date on which the person becomes a candidate for elected city
office.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interest for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board, the officer or
employee shall, no later than 30 days after becoming aware of the material
change, file an amended statement with the Board.
(2010 Code, § 30.49)
§ 31.052 FORM OF STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTEREST.
   The statement of financial interest shall be filed on a form prescribed by
the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated by the Board of
Ethics. The Board, or the designated administrative official, shall deliver a
copy of the form to each officer and employee required to file the statement,
by first class mail or hand delivery, no later than March 1 of each year. The
failure of the Board, or the designated administrative official, to deliver a
copy of the form to any officer or employee shall not relieve the officer or
employee of the obligation to file the statement.
(2010 Code, § 30.50)
§ 31.053 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTEREST.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics shall be the official custodian of the statements
of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance of the
statements of financial interests. The statement of financial interest shall be
maintained by the Board of Ethics as custodian, as public documents, available
for public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interest shall be retained by the Board, or
the designated administrative official, for a period of five years after
filing, provided that:
      (1)   Upon the expiration of three years after a person ceases to be an
officer or employee of the city or a city agency, the Board shall cause to be
destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those statements
filed by the person; or
      (2)   Upon the expiration of three years after any election at which a
candidate for elected city office was not elected or nominated, the Board shall
cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those
statements filed by the person.
(2010 Code, § 30.51)
§ 31.054 CONTENTS OF FINANCIAL INTEREST STATEMENT.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number, and
home address of the filer;
      (2)   The title of the filer’s office, office sought, or position of
employment;
      (3)   The occupation of the filer and the filer’s spouse;
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer and
the filer’s immediate family members that exceeds $5,000 during the preceding
calendar year;
      (5)   The name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had at any time
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 fair market value or
5% ownership interest or more;
      (6)   The name and address of any business located outside of the state,
if the business had engaged in any business transactions with the city during
the past three years, or which is anticipated to engage in any business
transactions with the city in which the filer or any member of the filer’s
immediate family had at any time during the preceding calendar year an interest
of $10,000 at fair market value or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (7)   A designation as commercial, residential, or rural, and the
location of all real property within the county, other than the filer’s primary
residence, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 or more; or
      (8)   Each source by name and address or gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of $100 or more from any single source, excluding
gifts received from family members, received by the filer or any member of the
filer’s immediate family during the preceding calendar year.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts or the names of individual
clients or customers of business listed as sources of income.
(2010 Code, § 30.52)
§ 31.055 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENTS.
   The Board of Ethics shall notify by certified mail each person required to
file a statement of financial interest who fails to file the statement by the
due date, files an incomplete statement, or files a statement in a form other
than that prescribed by the Board. The notice shall specify the type or failure
or delinquency, shall establish a date by which the failure or delinquency
shall be remedied, and shall advise the person of the penalties for a
violation.
(2010 Code, § 30.53) Penalty, see §
31.999
NEPOTISM
§ 31.070 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer, employee, or professional contractor of the city or a city
agency shall advocate, recommend, or cause the:
      (l)   Employment;
      (2)   Appointment;
      (3)   Promotion;
      (4)   Transfer; or
      (5)   Advancement of a family member to an office or position of
employment with the city or a city agency.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall supervise or
manage the work of a family member.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall participate in any action relating to the
employment or discipline of a family member, except that this prohibition shall
not prevent an elected or appointed official from voting on or participating in
the development of a budget which includes compensation for a family member,
provided that the family member is included only as a member of a class of
persons or group, and the family member benefits to no greater extent than any
other similarly situated member of the class or group.
   (D)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to
December 15, 1994.
(2010 Code, § 30.54) (Ord. 1, 2012, passed 3-12-2012) Penalty, see §
31.999
ENFORCEMENT
§ 31.085 NORTHERN KENTUCKY REGIONAL ETHICS AUTHORITY (BOARD OF ETHICS).
   (A)   The city has entered into an interlocal agreement and joined the
Northern Kentucky Regional Ethics Authority.
   (B)   Incorporated herein by reference is an interlocal cooperation
agreement authorized by KRS 65.210 et seq., that the Mayor of the city is
hereby authorized and directed to sign on behalf of the city and the provisions
of this section shall be enforced by the Northern Kentucky Regional Ethics
Authority and the Northern Kentucky Ethics Enforcement Committee according to
the provisions thereof.
      (1)   To enforce the provisions of this section with regard to all
officers and employees of the city and city agencies who are subject to its
terms by issuing appropriate orders and imposing penalties authorized by this
section;
      (2)   To control and maintain all statements of financial interests that
are required to be filed by this section and to ensure that the statements are
available for public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this
section and the Kentucky Open Records Act;
      (3)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business that may be required by the Mayor or Council of the city; and
      (4)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this section, provided that the
rules, regulations, and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
section or any state or federal law.
   (C)   The Board of Ethics shall have the authorities, duties, and
responsibilities as set forth in this section to enforce the provisions of this
section.
(2010 Code, § 30.55)
§ 31.086 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this section
shall be submitted to the Board of Ethics. All complaints shall be in writing,
signed by the complainant under oath, and shall meet any other requirements
established by the Board of Ethics.
(2010 Code, § 30.56)
§ 31.087 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer, employee, or professional contractor of the city or any
city agency shall be subject to reprisal, or directly or indirectly use, or
threaten to use, any official authority or influence, in any manner whatsoever
which tends to discourage, restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce, or
discriminate against any person who in good faith reports, discloses, divulges,
or otherwise brings to the attention of the Board of Ethics or any other agency
or official of the city or the commonwealth any facts or information relative
to an actual or suspected violation of this section.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting disciplinary or
punitive action if an officer, employee, or professional contractor of the city
or any city agency discloses information which he or she knows:
      (1)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless regard for
its truth or falsity;
      (2)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of the
Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 to 61.884; and
      (3)   Is confidential under any provision of law.
(2010 Code, § 30.57) (Ord. 1, 2012, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 31.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this
chapter, any officer, employee, or professional contractor of the city or any
city agency who is found by the Board of Ethics to have violated any provision
of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to
a civil penalty imposed by the Board of Ethics not to exceed $1,000, which may
be recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the
offender fails to pay the penalty within a prescribed period of time.
      (2)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer, employee, or professional contractor of the city or any
city agency who is found by the Board of Ethics to have violated any provision
of this chapter shall forfeit to the city or the city agency an amount equal to
the revenue, other consideration, economic benefit, or gain which the officer,
employee, or professional contractor is determined by the Board to have
realized as a result of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender
fails to pay the amount of the forfeiture within the period of time prescribed
by the Board.
      (3)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board of Ethics that an officer, employee, or
professional contractor of the city or any city agency is guilty of a violation
of this chapter shall be sufficient cause for removal, termination of contract,
suspension, demotion, or other disciplinary action by the Mayor of the city or
city agency, or by any other officer or agency having the power of removal or
discipline. Any action to remove, terminate, or discipline any officer,
employee, or professional contractor for a violation of this chapter shall be
taken in accordance with all applicable ordinances and regulations of the city
and all applicable laws of the commonwealth.
(2010 Code, § 30.58)
   (B)   (1)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who
fails or refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice
under §
31.055 within the time period established in the notice shall be guilty of a
civil offense and shall be subject to a civil penalty imposed by the Board in
an amount not to exceed $25 per day, up to a maximum total civil fine of $500.
Any civil penalty imposed by the Board under this section may be recovered by
the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails or
refuses to pay the penalty within a prescribed period of time.
      (2)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial
interest which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally
omits required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(2010 Code, § 30.53) (Ord. 1, 2012, passed 3-12-2012)
CHAPTER 32: MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Form of government
   
32.02   Governing officers
Mayor
   
32.15   Powers and duties
   
32.16   Promulgation of administrative procedures
   
32.17   Participation in Council proceedings
   
32.18   Approval or disapproval of ordinances
   
32.19   Delegation of duties by executive order
   
32.20   Committees
   
32.21   Execution of bonds, notes, and contracts
   
32.22   Appointment of city employees
   
32.23   Procedure upon disability; vacancy
   
32.24   Salary
Council
   
32.35   Powers and duties
   
32.36   Meetings
   
32.37   Establishment of appointive offices
   
32.38   Management of city resources
   
32.39   Investigation of city government activities
   
32.40   Salary
Passage of Ordinances
   
32.50   One subject; title
   
32.51   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.52   Form of amendment
   
32.53   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.54   Quorum of Council
   
32.55   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.56   Official city records
   
32.57   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.58   Publication requirements
   
32.59   Periodic review required
   
32.60   Municipal orders
   
32.61   Proved by Clerk/Treasurer; received in evidence
   
32.62   Legislative immunity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided in §§
32.01 and
32.02,
32.15 through
32.23, and
32.35 through
32.39 for the city shall be known as the “Mayor-Council Plan” as provided in
KRS 83A.130.
(2010 Code, § 31.01)
§ 32.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City Council
or Council, and by such other officers and employees as are provided under this
code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.130(2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of six members.
(2010 Code, § 31.02)
MAYOR
§ 32.15 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The executive authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised
by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council Plan, city ordinances
and orders, and all applicable statutes. He or she shall supervise all
departments of city government and the conduct of all city officers and
employees under his or her jurisdiction and shall require each department to
make reports to him or her required by ordinance or as he or she deems
desirable.
   (B)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
   (C)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he or she finds appropriate or as
required by ordinance, but not less than annually. He or she shall make any
recommendations for actions by the Council that he or she finds in the public
interest.
(KRS 83A.130(3)) (2010 Code, § 31.10)
§ 32.16 PROMULGATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate procedures
to ensure orderly administration of the functions of city government and
compliance with statute or ordinance. Upon promulgation or upon revision or
rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the City Clerk/
Treasurer.
(KRS 83A.130(4)) (2010 Code, § 31.11)
§ 32.17 PARTICIPATION IN COUNCIL PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council. The Council shall,
by majority vote, select one of its members to preside at meetings in the
absence of the Mayor. A duly elected and serving member of City Council shall
be selected to preside at meetings of Council in place of the Mayor in his or
her absence.
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in Council proceedings, but shall not have a
vote, except that he or she may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130(5)) (2010 Code, § 31.12)
§ 32.18 APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who shall, within ten days after submission, either approve the ordinance by
affixing his or her signature or disapprove it by returning it to the Council
together with a statement of his or her objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor’s approval unless he
or she fails to return it to the legislative body within ten days after
receiving it or unless the Council votes to override the Mayor’s veto, upon
reconsideration of the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting
following its return, by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of
the membership.
(KRS 83A.130(6)) (2010 Code, § 31.13)
§ 32.19 DELEGATION OF DUTIES BY EXECUTIVE ORDER.
   Any delegation of the Mayor’s powers, duties, or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his or her official
authority to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order.
Executive orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and shall be kept in a
permanent file by the City Clerk/Treasurer.
(KRS 83A.130(7)) (2010 Code, § 31.14)
§ 32.20 COMMITTEES.
   The Mayor may appoint standing committees for recreation, roads, finance,
public works, or others as he or she deems necessary and may appoint ad hoc
committees for public purposes as needed.
(2010 Code, § 31.15)
§ 32.21 EXECUTION OF BONDS, NOTES, AND CONTRACTS.
   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city shall be
made and executed by the Mayor or his or her agent designated by executive
order.
(KRS 83A.130(8)) (2010 Code, § 31.16)
§ 32.22 APPOINTMENT OF CITY EMPLOYEES.
   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint and remove
all city employees, except as tenure and terms of employment are protected by
statute, ordinance, or contract, and except for employees of the Council.
(KRS 83A.130(9)) (2010 Code, § 31.17)
§ 32.23 PROCEDURE UPON DISABILITY; VACANCY.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he or she is unable to attend to the
duties of his or her office by delegating responsibility for any function to be
performed in accordance with §
32.19, provided that approving ordinances or promulgating administrative
procedures may only be delegated to an elected officer.
      (2)   With approval of the Council, the Mayor may rescind any action
taken in his or her absence under this section within 30 days of such action.
   (B)   If for any reason the disability of the Mayor to attend to his or her
duties persists for 60 consecutive days, the office of Mayor may be declared
vacant by a majority vote of the Council and the provisions of §
32.15(C) shall apply.
(KRS 83A.130(10)) (2010 Code, § 31.18)
§ 32.24 SALARY.
   (A)   The salary of the Mayor is fixed at $10,000 per year, payable monthly,
remaining effective January 1, 2023.
   (B)   Pursuant to the provisions of KRS 83A.075, for each year thereafter,
with prior approval of Council, the salary of the Mayor shall be automatically
adjusted in accordance with the annual change in the Consumer Price Index (CPI)
reported by the U.S. Department of Labor, as determined by the Commonwealth of
Kentucky’s Department of Local Government, pursuant to the formula application
of Section 246 of the Kentucky Constitution, rounded up to the nearest $10.
However, no such adjustment shall be made below the base amount set forth in
division (A) above should the CPI decrease.
(Ord. 4, 2014, passed 4-14-2014; Ord. 2, 2022, passed 4-25-2022; Ord. 1, 2023,
passed 3-13-2023)
COUNCIL
§ 32.35 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised
by the elected Council of the city.
   (B)   The Council shall not perform any executive functions except those
functions assigned to it by statute.
(KRS 83A.130(11)) (2010 Code, § 31.30)
§ 32.36 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The City Council shall meet for its regular Council meeting on the
second Monday of each month, beginning at 7:00 p.m. prevailing time.
   (B)   The following city committees shall meet as determined by the
chairperson on an as-needed basis at the date, time and location set forth on
the city’s meeting calendar and posted on the city's website:
      (1)   Economic Development and Business Committee;
      (2)   Financial Oversight Committee;
      (3)   Historic Preservation Committee;
      (4)   Infrastructure and Public Works Committee;
      (5)   Parks, Beautification and Recreation Committee;
      (6)   Tree Board.
   (C)   All Council regular, caucus and special meetings and all committee
meetings (if not conducted virtually) shall physically take place at the Park
Hills City Building located at 1106 Amsterdam Road, Park Hills, Kentucky, or at
the location designated by the city on its published agenda or the city’s
meetings calendar, all until such time a suitable or permanent location may be
had.
   (D)   With proper notice provided beforehand, any meeting of City Council or
any committee meeting may be conducted virtually to allow public observance in
accordance with the provisions of KRS 61.826 and the Kentucky Open Meetings
Act.
   (E)   The City Council shall meet for its regular caucus meeting on the
fourth Monday of each month, beginning at 7:00 p.m. prevailing time.
   (F)   Special meetings of the City Council may be called by the Mayor or
upon written request of a majority of the City Council. In the call, the Mayor
or City Council shall designate the purpose, time, and place of the special
meeting with sufficient notice for the attendance of City Council members and
for compliance with KRS Ch. 61.
   (G)   At a special meeting, no business may be considered other than that
set forth in the designation of purpose.
   (H)   The minutes of all city regular, caucus or special meetings shall be
signed by the person responsible for maintaining city records, provided under §
32.56, and by the officer presiding at the meeting.
   (I)   The Kentucky Open Meetings Act does not require the city to allow the
public to be heard or participate at any of its meetings unless public comment
is provided for as part of the agenda or if such person is otherwise permitted
and recognized to do so by the presiding officer at meetings of Council or by
the chairperson at meetings of any of the committees.
(2010 Code, § 31.31) (Ord. 1, 2011, passed 1-24-2011; Ord. 16, 2011, passed 11-
21-2011; Ord. 16, 2015, passed 4-11-2015; Ord. 21, 2016, passed 12-12-2016;
Ord. 24, 2016, passed 12-12-2016; Ord. 3, 2017, passed 1-9-2017; Ord. 6, 2017,
passed 3-13-2017; Ord. 3, 2018, passed 4-9-2018; Ord. 1, 2020, passed 5- 11-
2020; Ord. 1, 2021, passed 3-8-2021; Ord. 2 2024, passed 5-13-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see KRS 83A.130(11)
§ 32.37 ESTABLISHMENT OF APPOINTIVE OFFICES.
   The Council shall by ordinance establish all appointive offices and the
duties and responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and regulations
for the public health, safety, and welfare.
(KRS 83A.130(12)) (2010 Code, § 31.32)
§ 32.38 MANAGEMENT OF CITY RESOURCES.
   The Council shall by ordinance provide for sufficient revenue to operate
city government, and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget which
shall provide for the orderly management of city resources.
(KRS 83A.130(12)) (2010 Code, § 31.33)
§ 32.39 INVESTIGATION OF CITY GOVERNMENT ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Council shall have the right to investigate all activities
of city government.
      (2)   The Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and
submit to it sworn statements regarding his or her performance of his or her
official duties.
   (B)   (1)   Any statement required by the Council to be submitted or any
investigation undertaken by the Council, if any office, department, or agency
under the jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or
undertaken unless and until written notice of the Council’s action is given to
the Mayor.
      (2)   The Mayor shall have the right to review any statement before
submission to the Council and to appear personally or through his or her
designee on behalf of any department, office, or agency in the course of any
investigation.
(KRS 83A.130(13)) (2010 Code, § 31.34)
§ 32.40 SALARY.
   (A)   The salary of Council members is fixed at $2,500 per year, payable
monthly, remaining effective January 1, 2023.
   (B)   Pursuant to the provisions of KRS 83A.075, for each year thereafter,
with prior approval of Council, the salary of each member of the Council shall
be automatically adjusted in accordance with the annual change in the Consumer
Price Index (CPI) reported by the U.S. Department of Labor, as determined by
the Commonwealth of Kentucky’s Department of Local Government, pursuant to the
formula application of Section 246 of the Kentucky Constitution, rounded up to
the nearest $10. However, no such adjustment shall be made below the base
amount set forth in division (A) above should the CPI decrease.
(Ord. 5, 2014, passed 4-14-2014; Ord. 3, 2022, passed 4-25-2022; Ord. 2, 2023,
passed 3-13-2023)
PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES
§ 32.50 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace but one subject and shall have a title which
shall clearly state the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1)) (2010 Code, § 32.01)
§ 32.51 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled “Be it ordained by the City of Park Hills”.
(KRS 83A.060(2)) (2010 Code, § 32.02)
§ 32.52 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060(3)) (2010 Code, § 32.03)
§ 32.53 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)    Except as provided in division (B) below, no ordinance shall be
enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication for an ordinance by naming and describing the emergency in the
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(4) and (7)) (2010 Code, § 32.04)
§ 32.54 QUORUM OF COUNCIL.
   A majority of the Council shall constitute a quorum and a vote of a majority
of a quorum shall be sufficient to take action unless otherwise provided by
law.
(KRS 83A.060(6)) (2010 Code, § 32.05)
§ 32.55 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance which identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date, and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, provided a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance
and is made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5)) (2010 Code, § 32.06)
§ 32.56 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   Every ordinance and municipal order of the Council shall be made a part of
the permanent records of the city, and upon passage of an ordinance the vote of
each member of the Council shall be entered on the official record of the
meeting.
(2010 Code, § 32.07)
§ 32.57 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   All ordinances adopted in the city shall, at the end of each year, be
indexed and maintained in the following manner.
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be maintained in this code of
ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8)) (2010 Code, § 32.08)
§ 32.58 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No ordinance shall be  enforceable  until published pursuant to KRS
Ch. 424 except as provided in §
32.53(B).
   (B)   Ordinances, except bond ordinances, imposing fines, forfeitures,
imprisonment, taxes, or fees shall be published in full.
   (C)   The publication requirements for all other ordinances shall be
satisfied by publication in full or in summary as designated by Council.
   (D)   The requirements for summary publication shall be satisfied by
publication of the title and a certified summary of the contents prepared by
the City Attorney.
   (E)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9)) (2010 Code, § 32.09)
§ 32.59 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years, the city shall cause all ordinances in
the composite index or code of ordinances to be examined for consistency with
state law and with one another and to be revised to eliminate redundant,
obsolete, inconsistent, and invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11)) (2010 Code, § 32.10)
§ 32.60 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Council may adopt municipal orders. Any order shall be in writing and
may be adopted only at an official meeting. Any order may be amended by a
subsequent municipal order or ordinances. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, a municipal order may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the city has control.
(KRS 83A.060(12) and (13)) (2010 Code, § 32.11)
§ 32.61 PROVED BY CLERK/TREASURER; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk/Treasurer, and when the ordinances are placed in a printed composite
index or code of ordinances by authority of the city, the printed copy shall be
received in evidence by any state court without further proof of such
ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14)) (2010 Code, § 32.12)
§ 32.62 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Council members shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protection allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15)) (2010 Code, § 32.13)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.001   Definitions
   
33.002   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.003   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.004   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.005   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
   
33.006   Capital Improvement Fund
Taxation
   
33.010   Levy of ad valorem tax; assessment
   
33.011   Payable date
   
33.012   Delinquency
Improvements
   
33.020   Definitions
   
33.021   Financing of improvements
   
33.022   Apportionment of cost
   
33.023   Comprehensive report required
   
33.024   Public hearing required
   
33.025   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.026   Affected owner may contest
   
33.027   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.028   Effect of additional property or change in financing
Investment Policy
   
33.040   Adoption
Taxes For the Acquisition Fund and Street Repair Fund
   
33.070   Collection
   
33.071   Street Repair Fund; Acquisition Fund
   
33.072   Applications
   
33.073   Reductions
 
   
33.999   Penalty
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an ENCUMBRANCE
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the National Council of
Governmental Accounting, the Municipal Finance Officers of the United States
and Canada, and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
(KRS 91A.010) (2010 Code, § 33.01)
§ 33.002 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions;
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles; and
      (3)   Readily provide such financial data as may be required by the
federal revenue sharing program.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020) (2010 Code, § 33.02)
§ 33.003 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section and KRS Ch. 91A.
No monies shall be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund, except
in accordance with a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Assets held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)    If, in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year shall
have full force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year. The
fiscal year of the city shall commence on July 1 and end June 30 of each and
every year commencing July 1, 1985, and thereafter.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor, with the advice of the Council Finance Committee.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in such form and detail as is
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal, together with a budget message, shall be
submitted to Council not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the
fiscal year it covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the
governmental goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year, explain
important features of the activities anticipated in the budget, set forth the
reasons for stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs,
and appropriation levels, and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1) Council shall adopt a budget ordinance making appropriations for
the fiscal year in such sums as it finds recommended in the budget proposal.
The budget ordinance may be in any form that Council finds most efficient in
enabling it to make the necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of § 157
of the Constitution of the commonwealth.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated.
   (J)   Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance’s adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. Such responsibility shall include the
preparation and submission to Council of operating statements which shall
include budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual
budget has been adopted. Such reports shall be submitted not less than once
every three months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.002.
   (M)   No city, agency, or member, director, officers, or employee thereof
may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money at that
time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts, agreements, and
obligations, express or implied, beyond such existing appropriations are void,
nor shall any city officer issue any bond, certificate, or warrant for the
payment of money by the city in any way to any extent, beyond the unexpected
balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS91A.030 ) (2010 Code, § 33.03)
§ 33.004 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A) The city shall, after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund of
the city to be audited by the Auditor of Public accounts or a certified public
accountant. The audits shall be completed by February 1 immediately following
the fiscal year being audited. The city shall forward an electronic copy of the
audit report to the Department for Local Government for information purposes no
later than March 1 immediately following the fiscal year being audited.
   (B)   If a city is required by another provision of law to audit its funds
more frequently or more stringently than is required by this section, the city
shall also comply with the provisions of the law.
   (C)   The Department for Local Government shall, upon request, make
available electronic copies of the audit reports and financial statements
received by it under this section to the Legislative Research Commission to be
used for the purposes of KRS 6.955 60 6.975 or to the Auditor of Public
Accounts.
   (D)   The city shall enter into a written contract with the selected
Auditor. The contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement
which shall include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The Auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The Auditor shall include in the annual or biennial city audit
report an examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to
the city under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The Auditor shall include a certification
with the annual or biennial audit report that the funds were expended for the
purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which includes such tests of the
accounting records and such auditing procedures as considered necessary in the
circumstances. Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal funds,
appropriate state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The Auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The Auditor's opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit.
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to Council at a regular or special meeting.
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the right to review the certified public
accountant’s work papers upon request.
   (E)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting nay official request to
the city for financial date, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975 or to the Auditor of Public Accounts.
   (F)   Each city shall within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the city legislative body, publish and advertisement, in accordance with KRS
Ch. 424 containing:
      (1)   The Auditor's opinion letter;
      (2)   The "Budgetary Comparison Schedules - Major Funds", which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at City Hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from City Hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $0.25 per page; and
      (6)   In addition, the advertisement shall contain a statement that
copies of the financial statement prepared in accordance with KRS 424.220, when
a financial statement is required thereby, are available to the public at no
cost at the business address of the officer responsible for preparation of such
statement.
   (G)   Any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city may
bring an action in the Circuit Court to enforce the provisions of this section.
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any officer who fails to comply with
any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be subject to a
forfeiture of not less than $50 nor more than $500, in the discretion of the
court, which may be recovered only once, in a civil action brought by any
resident of the city or owner of real property within the city. The costs of
all proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident or
property owner bringing the action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful
party.
   (H)   In the event of extenuating circumstances that prevent a city from
completing and submitting a required audit or financial statement in compliance
with the applicable deadlines of this section, the city may submit a written
request for an extension of time to the Department for Local Government on a
form prescribed by the Department for Local Government. The Department for
Local Government shall approve the request if it is submitted on or before the
applicable deadline, and in the judgment of the Department for Local Government
the request is warranted by extenuating circumstances beyond the control of the
city. Extensions granted under this subsection shall not exceed nine months
from the original due date of the audit or financial statement. If the
Department for Local Government approves an extension for a city and the city
fails to complete and submit the required audit or financial statement in
compliance with that extended deadline, then the provisions of division (G) of
this section shall apply.
   (I)   If a city fails to complete an audit or financial statement and submit
it to the Department for Local Government as required in this section, the
Department for Local Government shall notify the Finance and Administration
Cabinet that the city has failed to comply with the audit requirements of this
section, and that any funds in the possession of any agency, entity, or branch
of state government shall be withheld from the city until further notice. The
Department for Local Government shall immediately notify the Finance and
Administration Cabinet when the city complies with the requirements of this
section for all prior fiscal years it has failed to comply with the audit
requirements of this section, and the Finance and Administration Cabinet shall
direct the reinstatement of payments to the city, including any funds that were
withheld due to the noncompliance.
   (J)   Within a reasonable time after the completion of a special audit or
examination conducted pursuant to (A), the Auditor shall bill the city for the
actual expense of the audit or examination conducted. The actual expense shall
include the hours of work performed on the audit or examination as well as
reasonable associated costs, including but not limited to travel costs. The
bill submitted to the city shall include a statement of the hourly rate, total
hours, and total costs for the entire audit or examination.
(KRS 91A.040) (2010 Code, § 33.04)
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see KRS 91A.040
§ 33.005 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city’s official depositories one or
more banks, federally- insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or surety bonds.
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which shall
state the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the
payment, and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization
shall be numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060) (2010 Code, § 33.05)
§ 33.006 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   There is hereby established a Capital Improvement Fund of the City of Park
Hills, Kentucky. The Capital Improvement Fund shall be used for the purchase of
equipment, vehicles and machinery, and other long-lasting goods that are not
consumed in the normal course of business, and the construction, installation,
repair, renovation, or maintenance of public buildings or structures. The
Capital Improvement Fund shall not be used to pay salaries of any public
officials or employees or to purchase real property. Any expenditure made from
the fund must be based on the written recommendation of a department head or
the Mayor and approved by City Council in the budget for the fund.
(Ord. 4, 2018, passed 6-18-2018)
TAXATION
§ 33.010 LEVY OF AD VALOREM TAX; ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   Under KRS 132.285, the city elects to use the annual Kenton County
assessment for property situated within the city as a basis of ad valorem tax
levies ordered or approved by the City Council.
   (B)   For the purpose of providing revenue to pay the general operating
expenses of the city, each year there shall be levied an ad valorem tax at the
rate set by ordinance on all property subject to taxation within the city.
(Ord. 6, 2015, passed 5-11-2015; Ord. 12, 2018, passed 11-12-2018; Ord. 7,
2019, passed 8-12-2019; Ord. 5, 2020, passed 8-10-2020; Ord. 7, 2022, passed 8-
8-2022; Ord. 8, 2023, passed 8-14-2023; Ord. 9, 2024, passed 8-12-2024)
§ 33.011 PAYABLE DATE.
   All ad valorem taxes shall be payable to the City Clerk/Treasurer between
the dates of September 1 and September 30.
(Ord. 6, 2015, passed 5-11-2015; Ord. 12, 2018, passed 11-12-2018; Ord. 7,
2019, passed 8-12-2019; Ord. 5, 2020, passed 8-10-2020; Ord. 7, 2022, passed 8-
8-2022; Ord. 8, 2023, passed 8-14-2023; Ord. 9, 2024, passed 8-12-2024)
§ 33.012 DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   Anyone failing to pay the taxes during the period set forth in §
33.011 shall be deemed delinquent, and the bill shall have added thereto a
penalty on the amount of the taxes in an amount equal to 10% between October 1
and October 31; and an amount equal to 25% after October 31. Interest shall
accrue at the rate of 12% per annum from the due date until paid. The
delinquent taxpayer shall also pay the costs of collection, including
reasonable attorney fees, court costs and related expenses.
   (B)   The city has a lien upon the property assessed under the terms of this
chapter for the taxes levied upon that property, and for all penalties,
interest, fees, commissions, charges, and other expenses, including court costs
and attorney’s fees as an additional penalty under KRS 90A.070(2), incurred by
reason of delinquency in payment of the tax bill or in the process of
collecting it. The lien has priority over all other obligations or liabilities
for which the property is liable.
(Ord. 6, 2015, passed 5-11-2015; Ord. 12, 2018, passed 11-12-2018; Ord. 7,
2019, passed 8-12-2019; Ord. 5, 2020, passed 8-10-2020; Ord. 7, 2022, passed 8-
8-2022; Ord. 8, 2023, passed 8-14-2023; Ord. 9, 2024, passed 8-12-2024)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of the cost of an improvement
according to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property
bears to the total assessed value of all such properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by Council of the special benefit received
by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis, front foot
basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may include
consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different classes
of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received, and other
factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition, and construction costs, fiscal and legal
fees, financing costs, and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to such front footage of all such properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by such facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefitted by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all such property.
(KRS 91A.210) (2010 Code, § 33.10)
§ 33.021 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may finance the cost of any improvement in whole or in part
by special assessments made as provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
that may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or
financing.
(KRS 91A.220) (2010 Code, § 33.11)
§ 33.022 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on the benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization. Council
may assess such property in the same matter as for privately-owned or it may
pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230) (2010 Code, § 33.12)
§ 33.023 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240) (2010 Code, § 33.13)
§ 33.024 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   (A)   After preparation of the report required by §
33.023, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Ch. 424, and
mailed to each affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt
requested, and shall include:
      (1)   The nature of the improvement;
      (2)   Description of area of the improvement;
      (3)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in
whole or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
      (4)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
      (5)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250) (2010 Code, § 33.14)
§ 33.025 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   (A)   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed, shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.023 and a description of all properties.
   (B)   Promptly upon passage, the city shall publish such ordinance pursuant
to KRS Ch. 424 and shall mail by certified mail to each affected property owner
a notice of determination to proceed with the project, the fair basis of
assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to the property owner, and the
ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the total cost of the entire
project.
(KRS 91A.260) (2010 Code, § 33.15)
§ 33.026 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.025, any affected property owner may file an action in the Circuit Court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his or her property in the improvement, or the amount of his
or her assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by
the special assessment method or the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution shall be final and binding with respect to
such property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the
lapse of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties shall be
forever barred.
(KRS 91A.270) (2010 Code, § 33.16)
§ 33.027 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.026, or after favorable final judgment in any such action, whichever comes
later, the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof as was stayed
by the action, including notice requiring payment of special assessment or
installment thereon and bonds or other method proposed to finance the
improvement. The first installment may be apportioned so that other payments
will coincide with payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   (1)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof
on any property, and accrued interest and other charges, shall constitute a
lien on the property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source
of financing of the improvement.
      (2)   The lien shall take precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and shall not be defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale,
by any mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property
or in the names of the owners.
      (3)   No error in the proceedings of the Council shall exempt any
benefitted property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or from
payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein provided.
(KRS 91A.280) (2010 Code, § 33.17)
§ 33.028 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.023 through
33.027 shall apply if additional property is included in the improvement or if
change is made in the method or period of financing, but additional property
may be included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof
without compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost
apportioned to any other property or any other change may be made without such
compliance if all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290) (2010 Code, § 33.18)
INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 33.040 ADOPTION.
   The City Council hereby adopts the investment policy attached to the
ordinance codified herein and incorporated herein by reference.
(2010 Code, § 33.20)
TAXES FOR THE ACQUISITION FUND AND STREET REPAIR FUND
§ 33.070 COLLECTION.
   The tax revenues generated by the special ad valorem taxes shall be in
addition to other taxes imposed by the city and shall be used solely for the
Project and the Acquisition Project. The special ad valorem taxes shall be due
at the same time and be collected in the same manner, from time to time in
effect, as are other ad valorem taxes levied by the city, and taxes not paid
shall be subject to the same interest, penalty, costs of collection expenses,
and attorney’s fees from time to time in effect, as are other ad valorem taxes
levied by the city.
(2010 Code, § 54.02)
§ 33.071 STREET REPAIR FUND; ACQUISITION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a separate fund to be known as the “Street
Repair Fund” into which shall be transferred and set aside the proceeds of the
special ad valorem tax for the Project. All proceeds of the Street Repair Fund
shall be kept apart from other funds of the city and shall be accounted for
separately. The proceeds in the Street Repair Fund shall be invested in
accordance with applicable law, and all income derived therefrom shall be
carried to the credit of the Street Repair Fund and shall become a part of the
proceeds of said Fund. The proceeds constituting the Street Repair Fund shall
not be disbursed, expended, pledged, encumbered, or transferred by any use or
purpose other than provided by this section. Any proceeds remaining in the
Street Repair Fund at the end of any fiscal year shall remain in said Fund and
be carried over to the succeeding fiscal year for use as provided by this
section.
   (B)   There is hereby created a separate fund to be known as the
“Acquisition Fund” into which shall be transferred and set aside the proceeds
of the special ad valorem tax for the Acquisition Project. All proceeds of the
Acquisition Fund shall be kept apart from other funds of the city and shall be
accounted for separately. The proceeds in the Acquisition Fund shall be
invested in accordance with applicable law, and all income derived therefrom
shall be carried to the credit of the Acquisition Fund and shall become a part
of the proceeds of said Fund. The proceeds constituting the Acquisition Fund
shall not be disbursed, expended, pledged, encumbered, or transferred by any
use or purpose other than provided by this section. Any proceeds remaining in
the Acquisition Fund at the conclusion of fiscal year 2012-2013 shall be
transferred to the Street Repair Fund.
(2010 Code, § 54.03) (Ord. 5, 2012, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 33.072 APPLICATIONS.
   To the extent permitted under and in accordance with the Constitution of the
commonwealth and other applicable laws and regulations, proceeds anticipated to
be derived, and the proceeds held in the Street Repair Fund and the Acquisition
Fund so derived, respectively from the special ad valorem taxes levied
hereunder may be pledged, encumbered, and/or expended to pay the principal and
interest on any indebtedness incurred, including bonds issued, by the city to
carry out and perform the project or the Acquisition Project, respectively.
(2010 Code, § 54.04)
§ 33.073 REDUCTIONS.
   In any fiscal year in which the City Council determines that the full amount
of the special ad valorem taxes levied hereunder are not necessary to fund the
Project or the Acquisition Project, respectively, the city may by ordinance in
any fiscal year reduce the rate of the special ad valorem tax or taxes, as
applicable, for such year below the amount set forth herein. In any fiscal year
following the fiscal year for which the special ad valorem tax rate or rates
may have been reduced by ordinance, the special ad valorem tax rate or rates
shall revert to the maximum amounts as set forth in this subchapter unless
reduced for such subsequent year by ordinance.
(2010 Code, § 54.05) (Ord. 5, 2012, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 33.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, individual, corporation, or company violating the
provisions of §§
33.055 through
33.057 shall receive a citation, pursuant to §§
30.100 through
30.109. Each day these sections are violated shall be deemed a separate
offense. All subsequent proceedings, hearings, appeals, imposition of civil
penalties, liens, remedies, and enforcement with regard to such citation shall
be governed by §§
30.100 through
30.109.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the division (B)(1) above, on the thirty-first
calendar day after the issuance of a second citation for violating the
provisions of §§
33.055 through
33.057, the vehicle that is the subject of the citations may be impounded by a
police officer, pursuant to §
70.05.
(2010 Code, § 34.07) (Ord. 5, 2013, passed 4-29-2013; Ord. 14, 2011, passed 10-
24-2011)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SEWERS
      
51.   GARBAGE COLLECTION
      
52.   STREET EXCAVATION, UTILITY CUTTING AND ENCROACHMENTS
CHAPTER 50: SEWERS
Section
   
50.01   Terms and conditions; fees for permits
   
50.02   Obstructing sewers prohibited
   
50.03   Nuisances
   
50.04   Permission to tap sewer lines
   
50.05   Time limits to tap into sewers
   
50.06   Plugging of sewer taps
   
50.07   Sewer use charges
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 TERMS AND CONDITIONS; FEES FOR PERMITS.
   (A)   When any person, persons, firm, partnership, company, or corporation
shall be desirous of connecting with and/or tapping into any main sewer line in
the city, and not affecting the construction, sanitation, safety, or other
vital features of same, application shall be made to the City Council for a
permit to do so.
   (B)   The City Council shall, upon application, grant said permit for said
connection with and/or tapping into said sewer line if it is disclosed that
same is in complete conformity with all ordinances of the city and the laws,
rules, and regulations of the commonwealth or its duly appointed agencies
thereunder.
   (C)   Before any such permit shall be granted under the terms of this
section, the applicant shall pay therefor the sum of $3, $1 of which shall be
paid to the Clerk/Treasurer for the issuance of said permit, and $2 of which
shall be paid to a licensed plumber designated by the City Council to make an
inspection of the sewer connection at the time same is made.
(2010 Code, § 50.01) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.02 OBSTRUCTING SEWERS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm, company, or corporation
to obstruct or cause to be obstructed any gutter, sewer, or drain within the
limits of the city, so as to hinder the free passage of water there through,
including, without limitation, any dropping, placing, raking, or plowing of
dirt, leaves, yard waste, snow, or other objects into said gutters, sewers, or
drains.
(2010 Code, § 50.02) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 NUISANCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm, company, or
corporation to maintain, erect, construct, or operate an outhouse, privy,
cesspool, vault, blind sewer, and septic tank within the confines of the city,
and the same is declared to be a nuisance.
   (B)   All persons now maintaining or operating an outhouse, privy, vault,
blind sewer, or septic tank shall, within 90 days after passage of this chapter
where a public sewer is located in a street or alley adjacent to said property,
immediately provide and construct the necessary connection therewith.
(2010 Code, § 50.03) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 PERMISSION TO TAP SEWER LINES.
   (A)   No property owner or agent therefor shall be permitted to tap into or
use the sewer system in the city, including the new sewer system designed at
the I-75, Far Hills Drive, Elberta Circle or Saint Joseph Lane, Exter, Mt.
Allen Lane, Mt. Allen Road, Cecelia, and Scenic Avenue sewer system without
permission in writing from the City Building Inspector.
   (B)   All property owners in the city shall tap into and use the sewer
system in the city for sanitary and sewer disposal only, prohibiting
specifically the tapping in or use of the system, directly or indirectly for
drain and surface water or other than sewage disposal.
   (C)   Septic tanks and like sewage disposal methods are hereby declared
illegal and a health hazard, and are entirely prohibited in the city.
   (D)   Private or undedicated and unaccepted sewer lines are hereby declared
illegal and a health hazard, and are entirely prohibited in the city.
   (E)   (1)   There shall be no drainage into the sanitary sewer lines from
roofs, downspouts, area drains, catch basis, or any surface water drains
whatsoever.
      (2)   The sanitary sewer lines are only capable of carrying sanitary
sewage and they are not storm sewers.
      (3)   Only sanitary sewers are permitted to be tapped into the sanitary
sewer lines in the city.
(2010 Code, § 50.04) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 TIME LIMITS TO TAP INTO SEWERS.
   (A)   The city has a continuing program of installation, construction, and
renovations of sewers in said city.
   (B)   Every property owner benefitted by or abutting a newly-constructed or
renovated sewer line in the city shall tap his, her, or their sewer lateral
into said new or renovated sewer within 60 days of its being accepted by the
city.
   (C)   The person installing the tap-in shall obtain a permit prior to said
tap, and the tap-in shall be inspected prior to covering up said tap-in by the
Public Works official designated by Council for said inspection, and said tap-
in approved or else any defect shall be corrected, reinspected, and approved
before covering up the tap-in.
   (D)   The sewer line (house laterals) from the entrance of the sewer line at
the house all the way to the tap-in at the city sanitary sewer shall be
inspected prior to covering up said sewer line (house lateral) by the Public
Works official designated by Council for said inspection, and said sewer line
(house lateral) approved or else any defect shall be corrected, reinspected,
and approved before covering up the sewer line (house laterals).
(2010 Code, § 50.05) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 PLUGGING OF SEWER TAPS.
   (A)   It shall hereby be unlawful to allow any sewer tap to be unplugged or
open on real estate or rental property in the city.
   (B)   No person shall remove or demolish a structure and allow a sewer tap
to be open or unplugged.
   (C)   All sewer tap plugs shall be accomplished by a licensed plumber and
inspected thereafter by the Public Works Department.
(2010 Code, § 50.06) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 SEWER USE CHARGES.
   It is hereby established the following sewer use charges be made to all
persons who are billed for water usage in the city by Sanitation District No. 1
of Campbell-Kenton Counties.
 
Cubic Feet of Water Used                          Charge
First 800 cubic feet of water used per quarter    $3.38 (minimum charge)
All over 800 cubic feet of water used per quarter $0.06 per hundred cubic feet
 
(2010 Code, § 50.07)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, persons, firm, partnership, company, or corporation found
guilty of the violation of the terms of §
50.01 shall be fined in a sum not in excess of $100, and the cost of
prosecution.
(2010 Code, § 50.01)
   (B)   Any person, persons, firm, company, or corporation found guilty of the
violation of the terms of §
50.02 shall incur a civil penalty in an amount provided within §
30.999(C), and each separate 24 hours said obstruction is suffered to remain
shall constitute a separate violation.
(2010 Code, § 50.02)
   (C)   Any person, persons, firm, company, or corporation violating the
provisions of §
50.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be subject
to a penal fine in a sum not exceeding $25 for each offense, and each separate
day, or a part thereof which the same shall be maintained beyond the limit
fixed within this section, shall be considered a separate offense.
(2010 Code, § 50.03)
   (D)   Any person, firm, entity, corporation, or association violating any
terms of §
50.04 shall be fined $10 per each day the violation continues, and the city
shall be entitled to enjoin the violation thereof by civil action in the County
Circuit Court at the violator’s cost.
(2010 Code, § 50.04)
   (E)   Any person or property owner violating §
50.05 shall be fined $10 to $100 per day the violation continues, and each day
shall be a separate offense. The real estate and personal property of the
offending property owner may be attached to recover said fines.
(2010 Code, § 50.05)
   (F)   The penalty for violation of §
50.06  shall be a fine of $10 to $100, and each day the offense continues shall
be a separate offense.
(2010 Code, § 50.06)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE COLLECTION
Section
   
51.01   Short title
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Storage practices
   
51.04   Storage of refuse
   
51.05   Collection practices
   
51.06   Heavy user containers
   
51.07   Licensing of collectors
   
51.08   Collection of vehicles
   
51.09   Cost
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as “Garbage Collection”.
(2010 Code, § 51.01)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ASHES. The residue resulting from the burning of wood, coal, coke, or
other combustible material.
      DISPOSAL. Includes the storage, collection, disposal, or handling of
refuse.
      GARBAGE. All animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, or consumption of foods.
      PERSON. Includes any natural person, association, partnership, firm,
company, or corporation.
      REFUSE. All solid wastes, except body wastes, and shall include garbage,
ashes, and rubbish.
      RUBBISH. Includes glass, metal, paper, plant growth, wood, or non-
putrescible solid wastes.
   (B)   Tense and gender. The singular shall include the plural and the
masculine shall include the feminine and the neutral gender.
(2010 Code, § 51.02)
§ 51.03 STORAGE PRACTICES.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   No garbage shall be allowed or permitted to remain in any dwelling,
house, hotel, boarding house, café, restaurant, lunch stand, fruit stand,
market house, meat market, store room, store, or other building, or on any
premises a longer time than shall be reasonably necessary to remove and deposit
the same in a can, or cans as hereinafter provided.
      (2)   No waste paper, barrels, boxes, rags, or any other combustible
matter or material shall be stored, kept, or allowed to remain in any building
or premises in such manner as to be or become a fire menace for a longer time
than is reasonably necessary to remove the same.
   (B)   Preparation of refuse.
      (1)   All refuse shall be drained free of liquids before disposal.
      (2)   Garbage shall be wrapped in paper or similar material.
      (3)   All cans, bottles, or other food containers shall be rinsed free of
food particles and drained before disposal.
      (4)   Rubbish shall be:
         (a)   Placed in approved containers; or
         (b)   Cut and bailed, tied, bundled, stacked, or packaged so as not to
exceed 36 inches in length and 50 pounds in weight.
(2010 Code, § 51.03) (Ord. 10, 2011, passed 6-30-2011) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 STORAGE OF REFUSE.
   (A)   Each householder, commercial establishment, or person having refuse
shall provide himself or herself with approved refuse containers and shall
place and keep all refuse therein.
   (B)   Containers shall not be placed on the street right-of-way prior to 6:
00 p.m., prevailing time, on the day before scheduled collections, and shall be
removed to the rear of premises before 9:00 a.m., prevailing time, the day
following scheduled collections.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to place refuse in any street, alley, stream,
body of water, or any other public place, or upon private property, whether
owned or not, unless such refuse is placed in an approved container.
(2010 Code, § 51.04) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   (A)   Place of collection.
      (1)   Refuse containers shall, for the purpose of collection, be placed
at ground level, and be made readily accessible to the collector.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (A)(1) above, householders, commercial
establishments, or other persons may, by contract with collectors, shall be
permitted to place containers at agreed places upon their premises.
   (B)   Frequency of collection.
      (1)   Refuse shall be collected once per week.
      (2)   Restaurants, institutions, and commercial establishments may be
required to have more frequent collection, if determined by the City Council to
be essential to protect the public health.
(2010 Code, § 51.05) (Ord. 10, 2011, passed 6-30-2011) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 HEAVY USER CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      HEAVY USER. An individual, public or private corporation, partnership,
company, association, firm, person, or other entity whatsoever whose set out on
a scheduled garbage or trash collection day exceeds seven 30-gallon cans or
three toters.
      HEAVY USER CONTAINER. A container, with a lid, designed for mechanical
loading.
   (B)   Provision of containers. Heavy users shall provide heavy user
containers for use in garbage or trash collection. In the event that the
present number of heavy user containers on site does not prove adequate to
accommodate the amount of garbage or trash generated at a particular property
or business, then the heavy user shall increase the number of weekly
collections at the site or the number of heavy user containers for the site.
   (C)   Location. All garbage or trash collection areas of a heavy user shall
be located in the rear yard with a minimum setback of two feet from any
property line unless site limitations such as topography, yard area, or access
prevent such placement, as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
   (D)   Screening.
      (1)   All heavy users shall screen heavy user containers as set forth
within this section.
      (2)   (a)   All heavy users required to maintain one or more heavy use
containers on site shall provide a screened enclosure by means of a class one,
three, four, or six fence/wall, or combination thereof. In all cases, the class
of fence/wall chosen shall be modified to be 100% closed. Screening shall be in
excess of the height of the heavy user container to be enclosed.
         (b)   The screening shall be three-sided. The unscreened side of the
heavy user container may be open only to the interior of the site on which it
is located. In the event that the placement of the heavy user container is on
the opposite side of a traveled roadway or parking area from the building that
the heavy user container serves, the open side shall not face the traveled
roadway or parkway area.
         (c)   If access to the heavy user container faces the traveled
roadway, then that side shall be enclosed by a gate that is to remain latched
in a closed position when the heavy user container is not being emptied.
      (3)   Any heavy user having one or more heavy use containers that are
temporary in nature for the purpose of remodeling, refurbishing, or
constructing any building shall not be subject to this section for so long as
the remodeling, refurbishing, or constructing is in progress.
(2010 Code, § 51.06) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 LICENSING OF COLLECTORS.
   (A)   No person shall collect, remove, haul, or convey any refuse through or
upon any of the streets or alleys of the city or dispose of the same in any
manner or place without obtaining a license from said city.
   (B)   Every person who shall apply for a license under this section shall
state the type of refuse to be collected, the manner of collection, and the
place and method of disposal.
   (C)   Every person contracting to collect refuse within the city must secure
an occupational license.
(2010 Code, § 51.07) (Ord. 10, 2011, passed 6-30-2011) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08 COLLECTION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   All vehicles used for collection of garbage or refuse shall be
equipped with compacting devices or equivalent types of closed bodies and shall
have enclosed cargo space.
   (B)   No person or persons shall collect, handle, haul, or transport on any
of the streets, alleys, public thoroughfares, or public places of the city any
garbage or refuse for profit except as provided herein.
   (C)   All garbage or refuse shall be collected by a person or persons
designated by the City Council for that purpose and shall be transported in and
about the streets in said city for the purposes of disposal in as nearly water-
tight and air-tight receptacles as possible, so that there will be no spilling,
dripping, or drainage while the same is being transported through the streets
of said city for the purpose of disposal under the discretion of the City
Council.
   (D)   All garbage and refuse shall be collected in as nearly air-tight
receptacles as possible, so there will be no spilling, dripping, or drainage,
nor escaping odors while the same is being transported through the streets of
said city, or through the streets or thoroughfares of any other city or county,
for the purpose of disposal. Said vehicles shall be subject to the inspection
and approval of the City Council or any member designated therefor at all
times.
   (E)   All ashes, cinders, and other non-combustible matters shall be
transported through the streets of the city or through the streets or
thoroughfares of any other city or county, in covered vehicles or containers,
so that the same shall not be blown upon or over the streets, causing any
unreasonable or unnecessary dust, or give off any odor, or cause any nuisance
to the residents living along the streets where such ashes, and the like, are
being transported within the confines of the city, or any other city or county.
   (F)   All collections as herein mentioned shall be made between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., prevailing time.
   (G)   All garbage or refuse collected shall be disposed of outside the
boundaries of the city.
   (H)   Each person, firm, company, or corporation entering into a contract
with a private collector for the disposition of trash, garbage, refuse, and/or
recyclables shall be responsible for the payment of all charges agreed upon and
no liability shall inure to the city.
   (I)   Frequency of collection and location of pick-up service shall be a
subject of negotiation between the two contracting parties, except that no
cans, dumpsters, or other containers shall be so placed as to constitute a
hazard to pedestrians or motorists within the city.
   (J)   Trash collectors’ trucks shall be subject to all weight limitations
imposed under the authority of the Department of Highways of the commonwealth,
the county, and such ordinances as may be enacted by the City Council. All
collectors shall also comply with all rules and regulations of the Solid Waste
Disposal Division of the Environmental Protection Agency of the commonwealth,
and all federal regulations applicable to the disposal of solid waste and other
refuse.
   (K)   Failure on the part of any private contractor to abide by the terms of
this chapter shall result in the cancellation of his or her occupational
license and permission to do business within the city.
(2010 Code, § 51.08) (Ord. 10, 2011, passed 6-30-2011) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 COST.
   (A)   Effective July 1, 2023 all residents of the city shall pay $282 per
year per residential unit for the collection and removal of garbage, trash,
refuse, and recyclables from each resident’s premises once a week.
   (B)   Payment shall be made by each resident to the Clerk/Treasurer upon
receipt of a bill for same between September 1 and September 30, and the city
shall act as collecting agent of said garbage assessments payments for the
payment of the contract carrier(s) collecting and removing the garbage, trash,
refuse, and recyclables from city residents.
   (C)   All trash, garbage, and recyclables shall be collected and removed
from the premises of the residents of city as prescribed in this chapter.
   (D)   Business houses (and certain designated apartments or multiple-
dwelling units) in the city shall have their garbage, trash, refuse, and
recyclables collected and removed from their premises at their own cost, and
may do so either through the garbage collection agencies of the city or by
private contract, but their garbage, trash, refuse, and recyclables shall be
removed from the city each week to protect the heath, safety, and general
welfare of the city.
   (E)   This section shall be in effect for the period from July 1, 2023
through June 30, 2024.
   (F)   Each residence unit, whether a single apartment or single unit within
a multiple-dwelling unit of any like dwelling unit, shall be considered a
resident user of the garbage, trash, refuse, and recyclables collection(s), and
each shall pay the required garbage, trash, refuse, and recyclables collection
fee to the city under this section, except where exempted by specific action of
the City Council.
(2010 Code, § 51.09) (Ord. 10, 2011, passed 6-30-2011; Ord. 14, 2014, passed 6-
10-2014; Ord. 11, 2016, passed 7-11-2016; Ord. 5, 2019, passed 6-10-2019; Ord.
4, 2020, passed 8-10-2020; Ord. 5, 2021, passed 6-7-2021; Ord. 6, 2022, passed
7-11-2022; Ord. 7, 2023, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
      (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, company, or corporation who violates any provision
of §
51.04 shall be fined $25 for each such violation.
(2010 Code, § 51.04)
   (C)   Any resident who violates the terms of §
51.05 shall be subject to a fine not exceeding $50 for each offense.
(2010 Code, § 51.05)
   (D)   Any individual, public or private corporation, partnership, company,
association, firm, person, or other entity whatsoever violating the provisions
of §
51.06 shall be subject to a civil fine of not less than $25 nor more than $250
per day, plus the costs of a court action for each offense. Each day a
violation continues occurring shall be deemed a separate violation of §
51.06.
(2010 Code, § 51.06)
CHAPTER 52: STREET EXCAVATION, UTILITY CUTTING AND ENCROACHMENTS
Section
   
52.01   Excavation; permit required
   
52.02   Conformance with agencies having jurisdiction; approval required
   
52.03   Requirements of application for permit
   
52.04   Public Works Director inspections
   
52.05   Fees for inspection time
   
52.06   Permittee to post performance bond
   
52.07   Definition
   
52.08   Public utilities
   
52.09   Violations; remedial orders; refusal to issue permit; appeals
   
52.10   Encroachments
§ 52.01 EXCAVATION; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, entity, or utility shall cut, excavate, damage, or in any
way alter any road, street, sidewalk, or right-of-way within the city without
first obtaining a permit for such action from the Clerk/Treasurer. Nor shall
any person, entity, or utility cause such action to be done or suffer, or
permit any person, entity, or utility acting on his or her behalf or under his
or her control to do such action, without first obtaining such permit.
   (B)   Contractors, employees, and agents performing the work for or on
behalf of a permittee must have in his or her possession at all times a copy of
the permit and detailed specifications and drawings of the work to be
performed.
(2010 Code, § 52.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.02 CONFORMANCE WITH AGENCIES HAVING JURISDICTION; APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   No permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall constitute a license
or other authority to perform any work inconsistent with, or that does not
satisfy the requirements of any other local, regional, state, or federal
governmental person having jurisdiction over the permitted work location.
   (B)   It is the responsibility of the permittee to obtain approval from all
governmental persons having jurisdiction before commencing any work.
(2010 Code, § 52.02)
§ 52.03 REQUIREMENTS OF APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Such permit shall be granted pursuant to application thereof or made
to the Clerk/Treasurer in such manner and in such form as he or she may
prescribe. A non-refundable fee of $100 shall be paid for each such
application. A separate permit shall be required:
      (1)   For each road, street, or sidewalk sought to be cut, excavated or
altered;
      (2)   In each instance access to a road in the right-of-way system is
desired; or
      (3)   Any other instance where any type of work is desired to be
performed upon the right-of-way of any road. Such permit shall contain, among
other things, a clause whereby the permittee agrees to be bound by the terms of
this chapter.
   (B)   Unless an earlier expiration date is provided therein, all permits
required hereby shall expire at midnight on the one-hundred and twentieth day
following the date of issuance.
(2010 Code, § 52.03)
§ 52.04 PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Every cut, excavation, or alteration made pursuant to this chapter
shall be fully repaired and restored by the permittee or the person, entity, or
utility on whose behalf the permittee is acting, according to generally
accepted engineering standards. Such repair or restoration shall be inspected
by the Public Works Director, or such qualified person as he or she may
designate. The permittee shall notify the Public Works Director of the progress
of such repair or restoration upon request, and shall comply with the
reasonable directions of the Public Works Director or such person as he or she
may designate.
   (B)   (1)   In order to properly repair any cut, excavation, or damage made
on any portion of one side of a road, street, or sidewalk having a length
greater than ten feet, the permittee shall restore the road surface by
resurfacing the entire side of the road, street, or sidewalk for the length of
the cut, excavation, or damage plus ten feet at both ends of the cut,
excavation, or damage.
      (2)   In order to properly repair any cut, excavation, or damage made on
both sides of a road, street, or sidewalk having a length greater than ten
feet, the permittee shall restore the road surface by resurfacing the entire
road for the length of the cut, excavation, or damage plus ten feet at both
ends of the cut, excavation, or alteration.
      (3)   Unless otherwise approved by the Public Works Director, all
openings will be saw cut and all back fill will be flowable fill. The Public
Works Director may promulgate regulations, subject to the approval of the City
Council, setting forth the standards and requirements for acceptable repair and
restoration.
(2010 Code, § 52.04)
§ 52.05 FEES FOR INSPECTION TIME.
   The permittee shall pay to the City Clerk/Treasurer a flat fee of $100 for
each inspection required by this chapter.
(2010 Code, § 52.05)
§ 52.06 PERMITTEE TO POST PERFORMANCE BOND.
   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall, as a condition precedent to granting a
permit under this chapter, require said permittee to post a performance bond in
an amount specified by the Public Works Director sufficient to defray the cost
of performing the repair and restoration work that will arise out of the work
to be done pursuant to that permit.
(2010 Code, § 52.06)
§ 52.07 DEFINITION.
   The term PERMITTEE as used herein shall include and apply to any person or
entity on behalf of whom the work being done under the permit is to be
performed, and the application for such permit shall be signed by such person
or entity in addition to the person or entity actually doing the work.
(2010 Code, § 52.07)
§ 52.08 PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   In addition to any other requirements imposed in this chapter, prior to
performing any work on public or private property in the city, a public
utility, as defined in KRS 278.010, must notify the City Clerk in writing of
its intent to perform such work in the city. The written notification shall
include:
   (A)   A scope of work that describes the specific work to be done; and
   (B)   The estimated time frame for how long it will take the public utility
to complete the work.
(Ord. 8, 2019, passed 9-9-2019)
§ 52.09 VIOLATIONS; REMEDIAL ORDERS; REFUSAL TO ISSUE PERMIT; APPEALS.
   (A)   Each violation of this chapter is hereby classified as a civil
offense.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided by applicable ordinance or law, §§
30.100 to
30.109 and
30.999, concerning the City Code Enforcement Board, shall govern all appeals,
proceedings, and imposition of civil penalties arising from the issuance of a
citation for alleged violations of this chapter.
      (2)   The Public Works Director is hereby designated a Code Enforcement
Officer for purposes of enforcing this chapter.
      (3)   Any Code Enforcement Officer may, in lieu of immediately issuing a
civil citation, require that any violation of this chapter be remedied within a
designated period of time. Additionally, in the event of imminent or
irreparable danger to persons or property, a Code Enforcement Officer may order
the person, entity, utility or contractor immediately to cease and desist
performing any additional work and to perform remedial activities.
   (B)   Each day that a road, street, or sidewalk is or remains cut,
excavated, or altered in a manner not in conformity with this chapter, the
permit or applicable law shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   The City Council may, if it deems it necessary to protect the public
ways of the city, refuse to grant additional permits under this chapter to any
person or entity having twice been found to have violated this chapter or any
permit issued hereunder. Any refusal to issue a permit shall be set forth in
writing indicating the date of and reason(s) for the refusal and signed by the
Mayor.
   (D)   Any person, entity, or utility aggrieved by the issuance of a
citation, remedial order, cease and desist order, or a refusal to issue a
permit may appeal therefrom to the City Code Enforcement Board in the manner
provided by Ordinance No. 5, 2005, as amended.
(2010 Code, § 52.08) (Ord. No. 8, 2019, passed 9-9-2019)
§ 52.10 ENCROACHMENTS.
   (A)   No permanent structure of any kind or nature shall be permitted to be
constructed within or upon any city rights-of-way or roadways.
   (B)   However, any request, upon application, for installation and
construction of any parking pad within, upon or which crosses any city rights-
of-way or roadway shall be in accord with the city's Zoning Code and any and
all other regulations or requirements of the city and which shall also be
approved by Planning and Development Services of Kenton County.
(Ord. 11, 2023, passed 12-11-2023)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   WEIGHT AND WIDTH RESTRICTIONS
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   State traffic laws adopted
   
70.03   Authority to enforce and direct traffic
   
70.04   Traffic control signals
   
70.05   Impounding vehicles
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. Any public way not more than 12 feet wide affording a secondary means
of vehicular access to abutting properties.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department (Fire Patrol),
police vehicles, and such ambulances and emergency vehicles of municipal
departments as are designated or authorized by the Chief of Police of this
city.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two tandem wheels, either of which is more than 20 inches in
diameter, and including any device generally recognized as a BICYCLE though
equipped with two front or two rear wheels.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway or
roadway when 50% more of the frontage thereon for a distance of 300 feet or
more is occupied by buildings used for business.
   BUS STOP. The part of any roadway officially set apart and reserved
exclusively for the loading and unloading of passengers by buses or passenger
vehicles.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   The part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
street measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway.
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two highways which join one another at or approximately at right angles, or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon the different highways joining at
any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   When a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION. In the event such
intersecting highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of two roadways of such highways shall be regarded as a separate
INTERSECTION.
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LIMITED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every street, highway, or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting property or lands and other persons have
no legal right of access to or from the same except at such points and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
such highway, street, or roadway.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle that is self-propelled.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat and designed to travel on not
more than three wheels in contact with the ground, but excluding tractors.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall
mean standard time as may be in current use in the city.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings, and devices
not inconsistent with this title placed or erected by authority of the state or
county, or the legislative body of the city, for the purpose of regulating,
warning, or guiding traffic.
   PARK. When prohibited, means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association, company, or
corporation.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the Municipal Police Department or any
officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for
violations of traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway or
roadway when the property on such highway or roadway for a distance of 300 feet
or more is in the main improved with dwellings or dwellings and buildings in
use for residence.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway. When the
context requires, RIGHT-OF-WAY shall also mean the entire width between the
boundary lines of every public way, whether open to vehicular traffic or not.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street or highway improved, designed, or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel including any drainage ditches. In the
event a highway includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY, as
used herein shall refer to any such ROADWAY separately but not to all such
roadways collectively.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb line, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians, including any strip of ground between curb and paved sidewalk.
   STOP, STOPPING, or STANDING. 
      (1)   When required, means complete cessation of movement.
      (2)   When prohibited, means any stopping or standing of a vehicle,
whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic
control sign or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
when any part thereof is open to the use of the public as a matter of right for
the purpose of vehicular traffic.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway or portion thereof at the entrance
to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is required by
law to stop before entering or crossing the same and when stop signs are
erected as provided in this title.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden animals, vehicles, and other conveyances,
either singly or together, while using any street for purpose of travel.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power.
(2010 Code, § 70.01)
§ 70.02 STATE TRAFFIC LAWS ADOPTED.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or bicycle in violation of the
provisions of KRS Ch. 189 or any other traffic law of the commonwealth.
(2010 Code, § 70.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 AUTHORITY TO ENFORCE AND DIRECT TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department of the city to enforce
all traffic laws of the city and all state vehicle laws applicable to street
traffic of the city.
   (B)   The Chief of Police and police officers of the city are authorized to
direct all traffic in accordance with the provisions of this title and
applicable state laws or in emergencies as public safety or convenience may
require, and it shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply
with any lawful order, signal, or direction of a city police officer. Except in
case of an emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by a
city police officer to direct or attempt to direct traffic.
   (C)   The Fire Department officer in command, or any firefighter designated
by him or her, may exercise the powers and authority of a police officer in
directing traffic at the scene of any fire or where the Fire Department has
responded to any emergency call for so long as Fire Department equipment is on
the scene, in the absence of or in assisting the city police.
(2010 Code, § 70.03) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNALS.
   (A)   Signs and signals. It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle
to disobey the instructions of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by
authority of the City Council or in accordance with the laws of the
commonwealth. All signs established by direction of the governing body shall
conform to the state standards for traffic signs.
   (B)   Unauthorized signs. It shall be unlawful for any person to place,
maintain, or display any device, other than an official warning or direction
sign or signal authorized by statute or ordinance, upon or in view of any
street. If such device purports to be, or is in imitation of, an official
warning or direction sign or signal, or directs or purports to direct the
movement of traffic, then any such unauthorized device is hereby declared to be
a nuisance, and may be removed by the city police.
   (C)   Interference with signs. It shall be unlawful for any person, persons,
firm, company, or corporation to destroy, damage, mutilate, or deface any
street signs or markers, traffic signs, or control signs, or any polls upon
which the same are erected, within the confines of the city.
(2010 Code, § 70.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
   (A)   Any police officer of the city is hereby authorized to remove a
vehicle from a street or highway to a public or private garage or other place
of safety, and place the same in storage under the circumstances hereinafter
enumerated:
      (1)   When a vehicle upon a highway is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and a person or persons in charge of the vehicle are, by
reason of physical injury, incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to
provide for its custody or removal;
      (2)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a roadway and is so parked
illegally as to constitute a hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of
traffic;
      (3)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a roadway for a longer
period than three days and under circumstances indicating abandonment; or
      (4)   Under any circumstances provided by state law.
   (B)   Whenever a police officer removes a vehicle from a street as
authorized by this section and such officer knows or is able to ascertain from
the registration records of the vehicle the name and address of the owner
thereof, such officer shall, as soon possible, give or cause to be given notice
in writing to such owner of the fact of such removal and the reasons therefor
and the place to where said vehicle has been removed. In the event that any
such vehicle is stored in a public or private garage, a copy of the notice
shall be given to the proprietor of such garage. All charges and fees resulting
from said removal and impounding shall be the liability of and assessed against
the owner of the vehicle so impounded.
   (C)   Any person desiring to redeem such impounded vehicles shall first
reimburse the city for storage and handling charges.
(2010 Code, § 70.05) (Ord. 7, 2011, passed 6-30-2011; Ord. 14, 2011, passed 10-
24-2011; Ord. 3, 2012, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this title for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating the terms of §
70.04 shall be fined in a sum not exceeding $15 and the costs of prosecution.
(2010 Code, § 70.04)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
   
71.01   Police administration
   
71.02   Enforcement and obedience to traffic regulations
   
71.03   Speed restrictions
   
71.04   Vehicle load limits
   
71.05   Bus routes designated
   
71.06   Pedestrians to walk in sidewalks or facing traffic
   
71.07   Riding bicycles on paved roadways at night; reflective material
   
71.08   Traffic control during fire emergency
   
71.09   Operational prohibitions
   
71.10   Bus and truck routes
   
71.11   Stop streets
   71.12   Signage posting authority
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Traffic Schedules, see
Ch. 74
§ 71.01 POLICE ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   The Police Department shall keep a record of all violations of
this chapter or of the commonwealth’s vehicle laws of which any person has been
charged, together with the record of the final disposition of all such
offenses.
      (2)   Such record shall be so maintained as to show all types of
violations and the total of each. Said record shall accumulate during at least
a five-year period, and from that time on, the record shall be maintained
complete for at least the most recent five-year period.
      (3)   All forms for records of violations and notices of violations shall
be serially numbered. For each month and year, a written record shall be kept
available to the public showing the disposal of all such forms. All such
records and reports shall be public records.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to investigate
traffic accidents, and to arrest and to assist in the prosecution of those
persons charged with violations of law causing or contributing to such
accidents. Whenever the accidents at any particular location become numerous,
the Police Department shall cooperate with the City Engineer in conducting
studies of such accidents and determine remedial measures.
      (2)   The Police Department shall maintain a suitable system of filing
traffic accident reports. Accident reports or cards referring to them shall be
filed alphabetically by location. Such reports shall be available for the use
and information of the officer in charge.
      (3)   The Police Department shall receive and properly file all accident
reports made to it under state law or under this chapter, but all such accident
reports made by drivers shall be for the confidential use of the Police
Department, and no such report shall be admissible in any civil or criminal
proceeding other than upon request of any person making such report or upon the
request of the court having jurisdiction to prove compliance with the law
requiring the making of any such report.
      (4)   The Police Department shall maintain a suitable record of all
traffic accidents, warnings, arrests, convictions, and complaints reported for
each driver, which shall be filed alphabetically under the name of the driver
concerned.
      (5)   Said Department shall study the cases of all the drivers charged
with frequent or serious violations of the traffic laws or involved in frequent
traffic accidents, shall attempt to discover the reasons therefor, and shall
take whatever steps are lawful and reasonable to prevent the same or to have
the licenses of such persons suspended or revoked.
      (6)   Such records shall accumulate during at least a five-year period
and from that time on such records shall be maintained for at least the most
recent five-year period.
   (C)   (1)   The Police Department shall annually prepare a traffic report
which shall be filed with the Mayor.
      (2)   Such report shall contain information on traffic matters in the
city as follows:
         (a)   The number of traffic accidents, the number of persons killed,
the number of persons injured, and other pertinent traffic accident data;
         (b)   The number of traffic accidents investigated and other pertinent
data on the safety activities of the police; and
         (c)   The plans and recommendations of the Department for future
traffic safety activities.
   (D)   (1)   The Chief of Police is hereby empowered to make regulations
necessary to make effective the provisions of this chapter and to make and
enforce temporary or experimental regulations to cover emergencies or special
conditions.
      (2)   No such temporary or experimental regulation shall remain in effect
for more than 90 days.
(2010 Code, § 71.01)
§ 71.02 ENFORCEMENT AND OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Authority of Police and Fire Department officials.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department and/
or such officers as are assigned by the Chief of Police to enforce all traffic
laws of this city and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to traffic in
this city.
      (2)   Officers of the Police Department and/or such officers as are
assigned by the Chief of Police are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by
voice, hand, or signal in conformance with traffic laws, provided that, in the
event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard
pedestrians, officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as conditions
may require notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
      (3)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, or
when in route to the scene of a fire, may direct or assist the police in
directing traffic at or in the immediate vicinity.
   (B)   Required obedience to traffic ordinance. It is a misdemeanor for any
person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required in this
chapter.
   (C)   Obedience to Police and Fire Department officials. No person shall
willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of a
police officer or Fire Department official.
   (D)   Persons propelling push carts or riding animals to obey traffic. Every
person propelling any push cart or riding an animal upon a roadway, every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle, and any person riding a bicycle, shall
be subject to the provisions of this chapter applicable to the driver of any
vehicle, except those provisions of this chapter which by their very nature can
have no application.
   (E)   Use of coasters, roller skates, and similar devices restricted. No
person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle, or similar device, shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a
street at a crosswalk and when so crossing, such person shall be granted all of
the rights and be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
   (F)   Public employees to obey traffic regulations. The provisions of this
chapter shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned by or used in the
service of the United States government, this state, county, or city, and it
shall be unlawful for any said driver to violate any of the provisions of this
chapter, except as otherwise permitted in this chapter or by federal or state
statutes.
   (G)   Exceptions to authorized emergency vehicles. The provisions of this
chapter regulating the operation, parking, and standing of vehicles shall apply
to authorized emergency vehicles, as defined in this chapter, except as
follows:
      (1)   A driver when operating any such vehicle in an emergency, except
when otherwise directed by a police officer, may:
         (a)   Park or stand notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter;
         (b)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
         (c)   Exceed the prima facie speed limits so long as he or she does
not endanger life or property; or
         (d)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning
in specified directions so long as he or she does not endanger life or
property.
      (2)   Those exceptions hereinbefore granted in reference to the movement
of an authorized emergency vehicle shall apply only when the driver of said
vehicle shall sound a siren, bell, or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably
necessary, and the vehicle displays a lighted red lamp visible from the front
as a warning to others.
      (3)   The foregoing examples shall not, however, protect the driver of
any such vehicle from the consequences of his or her reckless disregard for the
safety of others.
   (H)   Operation of vehicles on approach of authorized emergency vehicles.
      (1)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
equipped with at least one lighted lamp exhibiting red light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such
vehicle and when the driver is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust whistle,
or bell the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and
shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any intersection, and shall
stop and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has
passed except when otherwise directed by a police officer.
      (2)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highways.
   (I)   Immediate report of accidents.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury
to or death of any person or property damage shall immediately by the quickest
means of communication, either verbal or written, give notice of such accident
to the Police Department if such accident occurs within the city.
      (2)   The Police Department of this city may require any driver of a
vehicle in an accident of which report must be made as provided in this section
to file supplemental reports whenever the original report is insufficient in
the opinion of said Department, and may require witnesses of accidents to
render reports to said Department.
   (J)   Driver’s inability to report. Whenever the driver of a vehicle is
physically unable to make the required accident report and there was another
occupant in the vehicle at the time of the accident capable of making the
report, such occupant shall make or cause to be made said report.
(2010 Code, § 71.02) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any of the streets of the
city at a greater speed than 20 mph unless otherwise posted.
   (B)   (1)   The maximum speed limit for Exeter Drive should be reduced to 15
miles per hour.
      (2)   The Public Works Director shall post the 15 mph speed limit on
Exeter Drive.
(2010 Code, § 71.03) (Ord. 17, 2014, passed 12-8-2014) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLE LOAD LIMITS.
   No person shall operate any truck on any street within the city when the
total gross weight of such truck, with load, exceeds 20,000 pounds; provided,
however, that trucks having a greater gross weight, including load, may be
permitted to make delivery of cargo.
(2010 Code, § 71.04) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 BUS ROUTES DESIGNATED.
   No bus shall be operated over any street within the city, except for those
designated in
Chapter 74, Schedule II, unless a special permit to operate shall have been
previously obtained. School buses are an exception and may be operated on any
street in the city so long as the school bus is being used for the pick-up or
delivery of children within the city.
(2010 Code, § 71.05) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 PEDESTRIANS TO WALK IN SIDEWALKS OR FACING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   PEDESTRIAN is defined as a person or persons walking, running, or
jogging.
   (B)   All pedestrians shall be required to stay out of the city streets and
highways and walk only on the sidewalks of the city where such sidewalks are
provided.
   (C)   On those streets of the city where sidewalks are unavailable,
pedestrians shall walk in single file on the side of the street facing oncoming
traffic.
   (D)   Pedestrians walking, running, or jogging upon any paved roadway other
than a sidewalk shall wear or carry one piece of reflective material, white
material, or a source of light from one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour
before sunrise.
(2010 Code, § 71.06)
§ 71.07 RIDING BICYCLES ON PAVED ROADWAYS AT NIGHT; REFLECTIVE MATERIAL.
   No person shall ride a bicycle on a paved roadway from one-half hour after
sunset to one-half hour before sunrise unless wearing or carrying one piece of
reflective material, white material, or a source of light.
(2010 Code, § 71.07) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 TRAFFIC CONTROL DURING FIRE EMERGENCY.
   (A)   The Fire Department, in making fire runs, shall have the right-of-way
over all other vehicles, and all other vehicles upon hearing the fire alarm
siren shall pull as close to the right curb as possible and stop until the Fire
Department and all members have passed. All vehicles shall, upon hearing the
warning of the Fire Department, do everything possible to clear the right-of-
way.
   (B)   No vehicle shall proceed in front of the Department on a run, and no
vehicle shall follow the Fire Department closer than 300 feet.
   (C)   No vehicle shall park any closer to a fire than 500 feet and the Fire
Chief shall have authority to cause the removal of any vehicle parked in any
manner in any place where he or she deems necessary for fighting a fire.
   (D)   The Fire Chief shall have the authority to issue emergency traffic
regulations as he or she deems necessary during the fighting of a fire, and the
police shall immediately enforce those regulations.
   (E)   No vehicle shall proceed in between different vehicles of the Fire
Department.
(2010 Code, § 71.08) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09 OPERATIONAL PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Driving over new pavement. No person shall operate any vehicle over or
across any newly-made pavement at which there is a barrier, a person, or a sign
giving warning to such effect.
   (B)   Boarding or alighting from vehicles. No person shall board or alight
from a vehicle while such vehicle is in motion.
   (C)   Jumping on or off a moving train. It shall be unlawful for any person
to jump on or off any moving train while the same is in motion in the city
limits.
   (D)   Mufflers. Every vehicle with an internal combustion, steam, or air
motor shall be equipped with a suitable and efficient muffler, and it shall be
unlawful while on a public street to operate said vehicle with the muffler cut-
out or removed. No cut-out shall be so arranged or connected as to permit the
operation or control thereof by the driver of any vehicle while in position for
driving.
   (E)   Drivers in a procession. Each driver in a funeral or other procession
shall drive as near to the right-hand edge of the roadway as practical and
shall follow the vehicle ahead as close as is practical and safe.
   (F)   Limitations on backing. The driver of a vehicle shall not back the
same unless such movement can be made with reasonable safety and without
interfering with other traffic.
   (G)   Riding on motorcycles. A person operating a motorcycle shall not ride
other than upon the permanent and regular seat attached thereto or carry any
other person, nor shall any other person ride upon such motorcycle other than
upon a firmly attached seat to the rear or side of the operator.
   (H)   Injury to streets. No person shall willfully operate any vehicle on
any street, public way, or thoroughfare in the city in such a manner as to do
injury thereto.
   (I)   Racing on street or endurance tests. It shall be unlawful for any
person to drive or propel any motor vehicle in any race, endurance test, or
speed contest upon any street in the city.
   (J)   Leaking contents. No vehicle shall be operated upon any public way or
street in the city unless it is so constructed as to prevent its contents from
dropping, sifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping from such vehicle.
   (K)   Horn, brakes, steering apparatus, windshield wipers, or rear vision
mirrors.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, when in operation on a public street of this
city, shall be provided with good and sufficient brakes and with a suitable
horn or other signal device capable of making an abrupt sound sufficiently loud
to be heard for a distance of not less than 50 feet under all ordinary
conditions of traffic. It shall be the duty of the operator of any motor
vehicle to sound said horn or other device whenever there is danger of
collision or accident.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle on the
streets, ways, alleys, or thoroughfares of the city that is equipped with a
faulty or defective steering device, wheel, or appliance.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle
without a rear vision mirror and without two windshield wipers on the front
windshield of said motor vehicle.
(2010 Code, § 71.09) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.10 BUS AND TRUCK ROUTES.
   The Chief of Police shall designate various streets of the city as bus
routes and truck routes, and it shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
bus or truck over any other street in the city.
(2010 Code, § 71.10) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.11 STOP STREETS.
   No person shall cause, permit, encourage, assist, or engage in the operation
of a motor vehicle in the city without first coming to a complete stop
immediately prior to the intersection on any streets set out in
Ch. 74, Schd. I or at which a stop sign has been posted.
(2010 Code, § 71.11) (Ord. 15, 2021, passed 11-8-2021) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.12 SIGNAGE POSTING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Upon making a reasonable determination, the Mayor, with the approval
of Council, is authorized to direct the Director of Public Works to place speed
limit, stop signs and other appropriate traffic control signage upon any city
street where deemed necessary for vehicular traffic control and to insure
public safety without the necessity of enacting individual ordinances or
necessary inclusion in any traffic schedule to assert validity.
   (B)   The provisions of §
71.03 and
Ch. 74, Schd. I, already in place, shall not be effected hereby.
(Ord. 14, 2021, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating §
71.06 shall, upon conviction, be fined a sum of not less than $5 nor more than
$10 plus the cost of court.
(2010 Code, § 71.06)
   (C)   Any person found guilty of violating §
71.07 shall, upon conviction, be fined a sum not less than $5 nor more than $10
plus the cost of court.
(2010 Code, § 71.07)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Regulations
   
72.01   Method of parking
   
72.02   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited in specified places
   
72.03   Stopping for loading or unloading only
   
72.04   Stopping, standing, or parking restricted or prohibited on certain
streets
   
72.05   No parking on unimproved right-of-way
   
72.06   No parking on unpaved lawn, lot, yard, or rights-of-way
   
72.07   Snow emergency
   
72.08   Blocking of sidewalk
   
72.09   No parking of large motor vehicles and trucks on city streets and
driveways
   
72.10   Parking citation enforcement
On-Street Disabled Parking
   
72.20   Application required; criteria
   
72.21   Application guidelines
   
72.22   Additional eligibility
   
72.23   Appeal
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Parking Schedules, see
Ch. 75
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 72.01 METHOD OF PARKING.
   (A)   Standing or parking close to the curb. No person shall stand or park a
vehicle in a roadway other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in
the direction of lawful traffic movement and with the right-hand wheels of the
vehicle within 12 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway except as otherwise
provided in this section.
   (B)   Signs or markings indicating angle parking.
      (1)   The Chief of Police shall determine upon what streets angle parking
shall be permitted and shall mark or sign such streets, but such angle parking
shall not be indicated upon any federal aid or state highway within this city
unless the Commonwealth Department of Highways has determined that the roadway
is of sufficient width to permit angle parking without interfering with the
free movement of traffic.
      (2)   Angle parking shall not be indicated or permitted at any place
where passing traffic would thereby be caused or required to drive upon the
left side of the street.
   (C)   Obedience to angle parking signs or markings. Upon those streets which
have been signed or marked by the Chief of Police for angle parking, no person
shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or edge of
the roadway indicated by such signs or markings.
   (D)   Permit for loading or unloading at an angle to the curb. The Chief of
Police is authorized to issue special written permits to permit the backing of
a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of loading or unloading merchandise or
materials subject to the terms and conditions of such permit. Such permits may
be issued either to the owner or lessee of real property or to the owner of the
vehicle, and shall grant to such person the privilege as therein stated and
authorized herein, and it shall be unlawful for any permittee or other persons
to violate any of the special terms or conditions of such a permit.
   (E)   Lights on parked vehicles.
      (1)   Whenever a vehicle is lawfully parked at nighttime upon any street
within a business or residential district, no lights need be displayed upon
such parked vehicle.
      (2)   Any lighted headlamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or
dimmed.
   (F)   Setting brakes on parked vehicles. No vehicle shall be parked on any
highway without first setting the brakes thereon and stopping the motor
thereof, and without turning the wheels of such vehicle to the curb or side of
the highway if it is standing upon a slope.
   (G)   Double parking. No person shall at any time double park any vehicle on
any city street for any purpose.
(2010 Code, § 72.01) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   Stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles prohibited at the following
places.
      (1)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (2)    Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (3)   On a sidewalk;
      (4)   Within an intersection;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 30 feet of a crosswalk intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign,
or traffic control signal located at the side of the roadway;
      (8)   In any parkway in any street, or in any parkway dividing two
streets;
      (9)   Within ten feet of the driveway, entrance to any fire station, and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 50
feet of said entrance (when properly signposted);
      (10)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (11)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street; or
      (12)   At any place where official signs or marking prohibits stopping,
standing, and parking. No person shall move a vehicle not owned by such person
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
   (B)   Parking not to obstruct traffic. No person shall park any vehicle upon
a street, other than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to
leave available less than eight feet of the width of the roadway for free
movement of vehicular traffic.
   (C)   Parking in alleys. No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in
such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than eight
feet of the width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic,
and no person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such a
position as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
   (D)   Parking for certain purposes prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal
purpose of:
         (a)   Displaying such vehicle for sale;
         (b)   Washing, greasing, or repairing, such vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency; or
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any automobile repair shop, tire shop,
accessory store, filling station, or any other establishment to use any part of
any street for the storage, repair, adjustment, or equipment of vehicles or
accessories therefor.
   (E)   Parking adjacent to schools. The Chief of Police is hereby authorized
to erect signs indicating no parking upon the side of any street adjacent to
any school property when such parking would, in his or her opinion, interfere
with traffic or create a hazardous situation.
   (F)   Using vehicle for primary purpose of advertising prohibited. No person
shall operate or park any vehicle on any street for the primary purpose of
advertising. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any sound truck or
public address system for any purpose on any city street except with the
written permission of the Chief of Police or his or her authorized agent.
   (G)   Parking prohibited at all times at designated places. No person shall
park a vehicle at any time upon any street where the curb is painted yellow or
other signs have been erected by the Chief of Police designating no parking.
   (H)   Parking on parade route. The Chief of Police is hereby authorized,
whenever in his or her judgment it is necessary or proper, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street, or part thereof, constituting
the route, or part of a route, of a parade, and he or she shall erect temporary
traffic signs to that effect. It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended
any vehicle in violation of such signs.
   (I)   Parking time limited in certain designated areas. Where signs are
erected, including signs on parking meters, giving notice thereof, no person
shall park a vehicle for a longer period of time than is designated on the
signs at such places, except Sundays and public holidays, upon any of the
streets where such signs have been erected.
   (J)   Parking exceptions, funeral cars. The provisions of any of the
foregoing sections, restricting the time during which parking is prohibited,
shall not apply to funeral cars parked in the vicinity of a church, chapel, or
residence while a funeral is in progress therein.
   (K)   Impounding of vehicles parked in violation of the law.
      (1)   Any vehicle parked upon the streets of the city at a place, in a
manner, or for a length of time prohibited by this chapter, is, if unoccupied,
declared to be an obstruction in such streets and a public nuisance; and any
police officer of the city is authorized to cause the same to be removed to and
impounded in the depository provided by the city for such purpose.
      (2)   Any police officer of the city is also authorized to cause any
motor vehicle to be towed and impounded that has been parked in violation of
the law and with respect to which notice has been sent pursuant to §
72.10(E) and seven days have elapsed after receipt of said notice and the fines
remain unpaid.
      (3)   All charges shall be paid to or on behalf of the city for any fine,
storage charges, or hauling charges before the release of such impounded
vehicle is authorized.
      (4)   Impounded vehicles shall be held for a period of 90 days and, if
unclaimed by that time, shall be advertised and sold.
   (L)   No stopping, standing, or parking near hazardous or congested places.
It shall be unlawful to stop, stand, or park vehicles in any manner as would
create an especially hazardous condition or would cause unusual delay in
traffic.
(2010 Code, § 72.02) (Ord. 4, 2023, passed 5-8-2023) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 STOPPING FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING ONLY.
   (A)   Standing in loading zone. No person shall stop, stand, or park a
vehicle for any purpose or length of time other than for the expeditious
unloading and delivery or pick-up and loading of materials in any place marked
as a loading zone during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are
in effect. In no case shall the stop for loading or unloading of materials
exceed 30 minutes except where so marked by appropriate signs.
   (B)   Prohibiting parking of vehicles carrying cattle, livestock, and the
like. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, company, or corporation to
park any vehicle that is carrying or has carried cattle, other livestock,
offal, or manure, that omits offensive odors, or attracts flies or other
insects on any street in the city.
   (C)   Transporting explosives. It shall be unlawful to transport any
explosive in quantities of more than 50 pounds anywhere in the city except in a
vehicle with springs and with a top and with the sign “explosive-dangerous”
painted on each of its four sides or carried upon a vertical pole at the front
of such vehicle high enough and large enough to be readily readable from both
front and rear at a distance of 100 feet; provided, moreover, that if the
transportation be at night, such sign shall be illuminated so as to be readily
readable from both front and rear for a distance of 100 feet.
   (D)   Loading and unloading. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any
vehicle to park such vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary for
the loading or unloading of passengers or property, and shall not consume more
than ten minutes in any street where parking is prohibited, or 30 minutes in
any of the following places:
      (1)   Within an alley in such a manner or under such conditions as to
leave available less than eight feet of the width of the roadway for the free
movement of vehicular traffic, or within an alley in such a position to block
the driveway entrance to any abutting property; or
      (2)   In any loading zone between the hours specified by the official
signs any day except as is otherwise provided in this section.
   (E)   Parking of buses regulated. The driver of a bus shall not park upon
any street in the city other than at a bus stop, except that this provision
shall not prevent the driver of any such vehicle from temporarily stopping in
accordance with other stopping and parking regulations at any place for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers.
   (F)   Stopping to discharge passengers on a bus. It shall be unlawful for
the operator of any bus to receive or discharge passengers at a bus stop
without first having stopped such bus with its two right wheels within 12
inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (G)   Citations for violations by bus drivers. Whenever a police officer
observes a bus violating any traffic regulation, it shall not be necessary for
the officer to stop the bus, but he or she shall take the number of the bus,
write a ticket against the number of the bus, and mail said ticket to the
company concerned.
   (H)   Restricted use of bus and taxicab stands. No person shall stop, stand,
or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a
taxicab stand when any such stop or stand has been officially designated and
appropriately signed, except that the driver of a passenger vehicle may stop
therein temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading passengers when such stopping does not interfere with any bus or
taxicab waiting to enter or about to leave such zone.
(2010 Code, § 72.03) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING RESTRICTED OR PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN
STREETS.
   (A)   Application of section. The provisions of this section prohibiting the
standing or parking of a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times
herein specified or as indicated on official signs except when it is necessary
to stop a vehicle to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with
the directions of a police officer or official traffic control device.
   (B)   Regulations not exclusive. The provisions of this section imposing a
time limit on parking shall not relieve any person from the duty to observe
other and more restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping,
standing, or parking vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
   (C)   Parking prohibited. When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no
person shall park a vehicle at anytime upon any street so marked.
   (D)   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited during certain hours on
certain streets. When signs are erected in each block giving notice thereof, no
person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle between the hours specified on such
signs.
   (E)   Parking signs required. Whenever by this or any other ordinance of
this city a parking limit is imposed or parking is prohibited on designated
streets, it shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to erect appropriate signs
giving notice thereof, and no such regulations shall be effective unless said
signs are erected and in place at the time of any alleged offense. Where
parking meters are used, the sign on the meter shall indicate the parking
limit, and these signs shall be used in place of the signs set forth herein.
   (F)   Regulating the driving of vehicles in public parks of this city. No
person, firm, company, or corporation shall obstruct any of the driveways in
any park in this city. No person, firm, company, or corporation shall operate
any motor vehicle or any truck or wagon in any city park except on driveways of
said park or in such other parking space that may be designated as a parking
space for any such vehicle.
   (G)   Prohibiting the parking of trucks in any residential section. It shall
be unlawful for any person to park a truck (over one-ton capacity) in any
residential section for longer than one hour, except when loading and
unloading.
(2010 Code, § 72.04) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 NO PARKING ON UNIMPROVED RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   There shall be no parking on any unimproved right-of-way in the city where a
no parking pad is installed.
(2010 Code, § 72.07)
§ 72.06 NO PARKING ON UNPAVED LAWN, LOT, YARD, OR RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm, company, or corporation to park
or store any motor vehicle upon any unpaved lawn, lot, yard, or right-of-way
within the city at any time.
   (B)   The term PAVED, as used herein, means plain Portland cement, asphalt
concrete, pervious paving or grass infiltration systems, full depth two-inch
paving bricks set on six-inch of stabilized aggregate, or solid rock
(creekstone, cobblestone, or flagstone) placed upon six-inch stabilized
aggregate, maintained, or placed so as to provide a solid surface, but does not
include crushed rock, crushed brick, or gravel.
   (C)   The term UNPAVED, as used herein, means not paved as that term is
defined in division (B) above.
(2010 Code, § 72.08) (Ord. 9, 2020, passed 1-11-2021)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is operated by means other than muscular
power.
      PERSON. Any natural person, company, corporation, partnership, joint
venture, unincorporated association, or any combination thereof.
   (B)   The provisions of this section are applicable to all streets in the
city.
   (C)   No person shall cause or permit any motor vehicle to be located upon
the pavement or right-of-way of any portion of any street in the city at any
time during which a snow emergency has been declared by the Mayor or the
Mayor’s designee.
   (D)   A snow emergency shall be declared by the Mayor or the Mayor’s
designee, at such time as he or she determines that falling snow, sleet, or
freezing rain requires restrictions of vehicular traffic for the purpose of
plowing, cleaning of snow or ice, or at such time as three inches or more of
new snow has fallen.
   (E)   Upon the declaration of any snow emergency, the Mayor or the Mayor's
designee shall, as soon as possible, notify local radio stations, television
stations, newspapers, and other members of the news media as will, in the
judgment of the Mayor or Mayor's designee, afford the earliest and best
information to persons using the public ways of the city of the existence of
the snow emergency. The Mayor or Mayor's designee should also attempt, to the
extent possible, to get the notification placed on the city's website. In
notifying the members of the news media, the Mayor or Mayor's designee shall
request that the notice of the snow emergency and its requirements be broadcast
or published as soon as possible. No other notices of the existence of the snow
emergency shall be required. Owners and operators of motor vehicles shall be
deemed to have notice of the snow emergency two hours after the broadcast or
publishing of the announcement and are subject to the prohibitions of this
section. Posting on the city's website constitutes official notice.
   (F)   The head of Public Works of the city is hereby authorized and directed
to install at all entrance points to the city signs containing the following
information:
 
NO PARKING ON CITY STREETS DURING A DECLARED SNOW EMERGENCY
 
   (G)   A vehicle parked on the pavement or right-of-way of any dedicated
street at the time a snow emergency is declared shall be removed from the
street within three hours if a snow emergency is declared between 6:00 a.m. and
8:00 p.m. If declared between 8:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., the vehicle shall be
removed prior to 9:00 a.m. of that morning. The owner or operator of a motor
vehicle found in violation of this section shall be responsible for all towing
and storage costs for such vehicle during the snow emergency.
   (H)   All peace officers of the commonwealth are hereby authorized and
directed to cause all motor vehicles located upon any portion of the streets of
the city in violation of the terms of this section to be removed from said
streets. Additionally, all peace officers of the Commonwealth of Kentucky are
hereby authorized and directed to cite all motor vehicles located upon any
portion of the streets of the city in violation of the terms of this section in
the following manner:
      (1)   A citation shall be issued and served by regular U.S. mail service
upon the registered owner or lessee of the vehicle in violation of this
section.
      (2)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be fined
$25 which shall become due and payable to the City Clerk of the city within ten
days of the date of the issuance of the citation.
      (3)   The amount of the fine shall double if not paid within 30 days of
the date of issuance of the citation.
   (I)   In any prosecution for a violation of the terms and provisions of this
section, it shall be presumed in the absence of conclusive evidence to the
contrary that the person to whom the motor vehicle is registered caused or
permitted the vehicle to be in violation of this section.
(2010 Code, § 72.09) (Ord. 8, 2014, passed 5-14-2014) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 BLOCKING OF SIDEWALK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle within the city when any
portion of the motor vehicle blocks or is parked over or upon any sidewalk.
   (B)   No person shall park a motor vehicle over or upon any sidewalk,
whether that vehicle is parked upon an installed parking pad or in any other
manner, nor shall any person while parking upon an installed parking pad permit
any portion of his or her vehicle to block any designated sidewalk within the
city.
(2010 Code, § 72.10) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 NO PARKING OF LARGE MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRUCKS ON CITY STREETS AND
DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Motor vehicles and trucks having a gross vehicle weight rating (as
defined at KRS 81A.010) (“GVWR”) in excess of 11,000 pounds may not be parked
on the city streets, roads, alleys, and abutting parking pads or areas at any
time.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any individual or entity to park on the city
streets, roads, alleys, and abutting parking pads or areas any motor vehicle or
truck having a GVWR in excess of 11,000 pounds.
   (C)   Motor vehicles and trucks having a GVWR in excess of 15,000 pounds may
not be parked on any public or private driveway at any time, including parking
pads and similar areas.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any individual or entity to park on any public or
private driveway, including parking pads and similar areas, any motor vehicle
or truck having a GVWR in excess of 15,000 pounds.
   (E)   Truck-tractors, semi-trailers, trailers, tow trucks, dump trucks, and
trucks having a box body appearance may not be parked on the city streets,
roads, alleys, and abutting parking pads or areas at any time. For purposes of
this chapter, a truck has a “box body appearance” where its chassis is
manufactured separately from the box that is attached to it, the box is either
rectangular or square in size, and the box is covered or fully enclosed.
   (F)   It is unlawful for any individual or entity to park on the city’s
streets, roads, alleys, and abutting parking pads or areas at any time any
truck-tractors, semi-trailers, trailers, tow trucks, dump trucks, or trucks
having a box body appearance.
   (G)   Truck-tractors, semi-trailers, and trailers may not be parked on any
driveway at any time.
   (H)   It is unlawful for any individual or entity to park on any driveway at
any time any truck-tractors, semi-trailers, or trailers.
   (I)   Motor vehicles or trucks having a width greater than seven feet may
not be parked on the streets at any time.
   (J)   It is unlawful for any individual or entity to park any motor vehicle
on the streets having a width greater than seven feet.
   (K)   All violations of this section shall be a Class B misdemeanor.
(2010 Code, § 72.11) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING CITATION ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Establishment of Hearing Board. It is hereby established within the
city a Hearing Board pursuant to KRS 82.600 consisting of one person who shall
also serve as a Hearing Officer. All actions of the Hearing Officer shall be
considered to be actions of the Board.
   (B)   Definition. As used herein, the term PARKING ORDINANCE means an
ordinance regulating parking, standing, or stopping upon the public streets or
ways within the city.
   (C)   Enactment of parking ordinances. The city hereby declares its
intention to enforce parking penalties as civil violations pursuant to the
procedures set forth in KRS 82.600 to KRS 82.640.
   (D)   Citation for parking violation; notice.
      (1)   If any motor vehicle is found parked, standing, or stopped in
violation of a parking ordinance of the city, the vehicle may be cited for the
appropriate parking violation.
      (2)   Citing officers shall note the vehicle’s registration number and
any other information concerning the vehicle which will identify it and, if the
driver is not present, shall conspicuously affix to the vehicle a note of the
parking violation containing a statement that the notice represents the
determination that a parking violation has been committed by the owner of the
vehicle, and that determination shall be final unless contested as provided in
KRS 82.600 to 82.640, a statement that a parking violation may result in
impoundment of the vehicle for which the owner may be liable for a fine and
towing, handling and storage charges or fees, a statement of the specific
parking violation for which the citation was issued, a statement of the
monetary penalty established for the parking violation, and a statement of the
options provided in KRS 82.600 to 82.640 for responding to the notice and the
procedures necessary to exercise these options.
      (3)   The notice of parking violation represents a determination that a
parking violation has been committed, and such determination shall be final
unless contested as provided in KRS 82.600 to 82.640.
   (E)   Response to notice.
      (1)   Any person who receives notice of a parking violation shall respond
to such notice as provided in this section within seven days of the date of the
notice, by either paying the fine set forth in the notice or requesting a
hearing pursuant to KRS 82.620.
      (2)   If the owner of a vehicle cited for a parking violation has not
responded to the notice within seven days, as provided in division (E)(1)
above, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall send a second notice by ordinary mail to
the last known address of the registered owner of the vehicle as listed on the
certificate of title. Such notice shall state the violation, date, location,
and type of vehicle and:
         (a)   The fines provided for in this section hereof have doubled;
         (b)   The motor vehicle involved in the violation is subject to towing
and impoundment; and
         (c)   The owner shall be deemed to have waived his or her right to a
hearing and the determination that a violation was committed shall be
considered final. Any person who fails to request a hearing or pay the fine
within the seven days shall be deemed to have refused to pay the fine levied by
the citation and such person shall be charged the sum of a $10 administrative
fee related to the aforesaid notice, which fee shall be added to any penalties
assessed under this section.
      (3)   The registered owner of a vehicle at the time the violation
occurred shall be liable for all fines, fees, and penalties which he or she has
refused to pay.
   (F)   Contest of violation determination; hearing; appeal.
      (1)   Any person cited for a parking violation under KRS 82.610 may
contest the determination that a violation occurred by requesting in writing a
hearing before the Board. Such hearing shall be held no later than 14 days from
the date of the receipt of the request, unless prior to the hearing the person
requesting such hearing requests an extension of time not to exceed 14 days.
Not less than seven days prior to the date set for hearing, the Board shall
notify the registered owner of the vehicle of the date, time, and place of the
hearing. Any person requesting a hearing who fails to appear at the time and
place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have refused to pay the fine
levied by this citation.
      (2)   At the hearing, after consideration of the evidence, the Board
shall determine whether a violation was committed. Where it has not been
established that the violation was committed, an order dismissing the citation
shall be entered. Where it has been established that a violation was committed,
the Board shall uphold the citation and order the owner to pay the citation
within seven days. A copy of such order shall be furnished to the owner. Any
person ordered to pay the fine who fails to do so within seven days shall be
deemed to have refused to pay the fine levied by the citation.
      (3)   The Board may consider the parking citation and any other written
report made under oath by the officer who issued the citation in lieu of the
officer’s personal appearance at the hearing.
      (4)   An appeal from the Hearing Board’s determination may be made to the
County District Court within seven days of the Board’s determination. The
appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint and a copy of the
Board’s order in the same manner as any civil action under the Kentucky Rules
of Civil Procedure. The action shall be tried de novo, and the burden shall be
upon the city to establish that a violation occurred. If the Court finds that a
violation occurred, the owner shall be ordered to pay to the local government
all fines, fees, and penalties occurring as of the date of the judgment. If the
Court finds that a violation did not occur, the local government shall be
ordered to dismiss the citation and the plaintiff shall be authorized to
recover his or her costs.
      (5)   The judgment of the District Court may be appealed to the Circuit
Court in accordance with the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (G)   Impoundment; charges; hearing on validity of impoundment; appeal.
      (1)   The city may impound a motor vehicle parked, stopped, or standing
upon a street or public way within its jurisdiction in violation of an
ordinance or statute prohibiting parking, stopping, or standing in the
location, manner, or at the time the vehicle is cited, or for any other lawful
reason.
      (2)   The release of an impounded vehicle shall be conditioned upon the
payment of the towing, handling, and storage charges imposed thereon, unless
the owner or other person entitled to possession challenges the validity of the
impoundment pursuant to division (G)(3) below. A vehicle may be released to the
owner or other person entitled to possession only upon proof of ownership or
right to possession. Any person who is not the registered owner of the vehicle
shall post reasonable security, bond, or other assurance of indemnification
prior to having the vehicle released to such person.
      (3)   The owner of a motor vehicle which has been impounded pursuant to
this section, or any other person entitled to possession, may challenge the
validity of such impoundment and request in writing a hearing before the
Hearing Board with the City Clerk/Treasurer. The hearing shall be conducted
within ten business days of the date of the request, unless the owner or other
person entitled to possession waives the limitation or the city shows good
cause for such delay. The city shall retain possession of the vehicle pending
the hearing, unless the owner or other person claiming right of possession
posts a bond in an amount equal to the fines and fees accrued as of the date of
the hearing request, or $75, whichever is less. If the owner or person claiming
possession of the vehicle is unable to pay the amount of the bond, the hearing
shall be held within 72 hours of the date the request for hearing is received,
unless such person requests or agrees to a continuance.
      (4)   (a)   Not less than five days prior to the date set for the
hearing, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the person requesting the
hearing by certified mail of the date, time, and place of the hearing. In the
case of a hearing required to be held within 72 hours of the date of the
request, as provided in division (G)(3) above, the person requesting the
hearing shall be informed at the time of his or her request, or as soon
thereafter as is practicable, of the date, time, and place of the hearing.
         (b)   Any person who refuses or, except for good cause, fails to
appear at the time and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have
conceded on his or her and the owner’s behalf the validity of the impoundment.
         (c)   At the hearing, after consideration of the evidence, the Board
shall determine whether the impoundment was valid and reasonable. Where it has
not been established that the impoundment was not justified, an order releasing
the vehicle shall be entered. All fines and fees paid and amounts posted as
bond because of the impoundment of the vehicle shall be returned. Where it has
been established that the impoundment was justified, the Board shall uphold the
impoundment and condition the release of the vehicle upon payment of all fines
and fees accruing thereto. If bond has been posted as security for release of
the vehicle, said bond shall be forfeited to the city. Any fines or fees in
excess of the amount of the bond posted shall be ordered to be paid by the
owner of the vehicle to the city. The Board shall furnish the owner or person
appearing on the owner’s behalf with a copy of its order.
         (d)   The Board may consider a parking citation and any other written
report made under oath by the issuing officer in lieu of the officer’s personal
appearance at the hearing.
         (e)   An appeal from the Board’s determination may be made to the
County District Court within seven days of the Board’s determination. The
appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint and a copy of the
Board’s order in the same manner as any civil action. The action shall be tried
de novo and the burden shall be on the city to establish that impoundment was
justified. If the Court finds that the impoundment was justified, the owner
shall be ordered to pay all fees and fines accruing as of the date of judgment.
If the Court finds that the impoundment was not justified, the city shall be
ordered to release the vehicle, if applicable, and to return all fines and fees
paid as a result of the impoundment and the plaintiff shall be authorized to
recover his or her costs.
         (f)   The judgment of the District Court may be appealed to the
Circuit Court in accordance with the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
(2010 Code, § 72.13) (Ord. 7, 2011, passed 6-30-2011; Ord. 14, 2011, passed 10-
24-2011; Ord. 3, 2012, passed 3-12-2012) Penalty, see §
72.99
ON-STREET DISABLED PARKING
§ 72.20 APPLICATION REQUIRED; CRITERIA.
   (A)   A physically disabled person may apply to the City Clerk for a
designated on-street disabled parking space.
   (B)   The applicant shall meet all of the following criteria to qualify for
a designated on-street disabled parking space.
      (1)   The applicant must provide proof of a disabled license plate,
pursuant to KRS 186.042; a disabled veteran license plate, pursuant to KRS
186.041; or a special disabled parking permit issued by the Kenton County
Clerk, pursuant to KRS 189.456;
      (2)   The applicant or a resident of the address must own an automobile
and possess a valid operator’s license;
      (3)   The applicant must provide a copy of the deed showing ownership of
the parcel of property where the on-street disabled parking space will abut, or
if the residence is rented, the applicant must provide written authorization
from the owner indicating there is no objection to the on- street disabled
parking space;
      (4)   The applicant’s residence must lack available off-street parking.
If the applicant’s residence has off-street parking and the applicant is
applying for an on-street handicap parking space to be installed, the City
Clerk may request consideration by the City Council to approve the application
on a case-by-case basis; and
      (5)   The proposed on-street disabled parking space must not interfere
with public safety and other necessary public services.
(Ord. 1, 2018, passed 1-8-2018)
§ 72.21 APPLICATION GUIDELINES.
   The following procedural guidelines shall be observed when making
application for an on-street disabled parking space.
   (A)   A completed application shall be submitted to the office of the City
Clerk. All supporting documentation shall be submitted at the time of
application.
   (B)   The application and supporting documentation will be reviewed by the
City Clerk to ensure compliance with the criteria in §
72.20.
   (C)   A decision to approve or deny a request will be made, in writing, to
the applicant within 14 calendar days after receipt of the application by the
city.
   (D)   If an application for on-street disabled parking space is approved, an
application fee of $75 shall be submitted to the city before final processing
of an application will occur.
   (E)   The City Public Works Department will install a disabled parking sign
and paint a portion of the curb abutting the applicant’s address in order to
designate the on-street disabled parking space.
   (F)   The on-street disabled parking space designation shall expire on
December 31 of each year. The applicant shall be required to reapply to the
office of the City Clerk within 30 days after the expiration to provide proof
that the on-street disabled parking designation remains warranted. A re-
application fee of $10 shall be submitted at the time of re-application. If the
re-application fee of $10 is not paid within the designated 30 days, an
additional late fee of $10 will be assessed. The city may remove the sign for
failure to pay the re-application fee. Once a sign has been removed, a new
application must be submitted in order for the sign to be reinstalled.
   (G)   Any disabled person having the proper disability designation on the
vehicle may utilize an on-street disabled parking space. Only vehicles without
the proper disabled parking designation will be ticketed.
   (H)   If the applicant for the on-street handicap parking space is no longer
a resident, or is deceased, the sign and post will be removed.
(Ord. 1, 2018, passed 1-8-2018)
§ 72.22 ADDITIONAL ELIGIBILITY.
   Public buildings, businesses, churches, schools, and places of assembly
shall also be eligible to apply for an on-street disabled parking space. The
applicant must comply with the guidelines in §
72.20(B)(3) through (B)(5). The requests shall be considered by the City Clerk
on a case-by-case basis.
(Ord. 1, 2018, passed 1-8-2018)
§ 72.23 APPEAL.
   Any person or entity denied an on-street disabled parking space may appeal
the decision to the City Council within 30 days after the receipt of written
notification from the city.
(Ord. 1, 2018, passed 1-8-2018)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person, firm, company, or corporation who violates any of
the provisions of the parking regulations set forth herein shall be fined $25
for each such violation except as follows.
 
Violation                                  Civil Fine
Parking in a fire lane                     $30
Parking in a no parking zone               $30
Parking on sidewalk                        $30
Parking on unpaved area                    $30
Parking opposite flow/direction of traffic $30
Violation of snow emergency restrictions   $30
 
      (2)   Each day a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
violation, and a separate fine for such violation may be levied.
(2010 Code, § 72.14)
   (B)   For each violation of §
72.06, each person, firm, company, or corporation shall pay a fine of $10, plus
the costs of the action, as governed by §
72.09 hereof relating to parking citation enforcement.
(2010 Code, § 72.08)
   (C)   Each day that the violation of this section continues shall be a
separate and distinct offense and punishable as such.
(Ord. 8, 2014, passed 5-14-2014)
CHAPTER 73: WEIGHT AND WIDTH RESTRICTIONS
Section
   
73.01   Weight restrictions
   
73.02   Width restrictions
   
73.03   Definition; exemptions
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   No vehicle, which is a through vehicle as described in §
73.03, shall travel upon the city streets of the city so long as it weighs in
excess of 15 tons.
(2010 Code, § 73.01) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 WIDTH RESTRICTIONS.
   No vehicle which is a through vehicle shall travel upon the city streets if
its width at any point, including its load, is in excess of eight feet.
(2010 Code, § 73.02) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 DEFINITION; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   A THROUGH VEHICLE as used herein is defined as any vehicle which
travels through the city on a city street with no stop, load, or unload
scheduled within the city. All drivers shall, upon request of law enforcement,
produce weight receipts, wide load permits, and/or destination documentation.
   (B)   Exempted from the provision of this section as applied to through
vehicles are vehicles traveling through the city coming from or going to the
Northern Kentucky Vocational School located in Covington, Kentucky.
(2010 Code, § 73.03)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   For the violation of any portion of this chapter, the operator and/or owner,
lessor, or lessee of the through vehicle shall be fined $200 plus the costs of
court.
(2010 Code, § 73.04)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Intersections
      
II.   Bus stop designations
      
III.   One-way streets
Cross-reference:
   Traffic rules, see
Ch. 71
SCHEDULE I. INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The following intersections require traffic to come to a complete
stop.
 
Intersection                             Complete Stop Required
All traffic approaching the intersection May proceed through said intersection
of Elberta Circle and Saint Joseph Lane  only after having first brought his or
                                         her vehicle to a complete stop
All traffic on Montague Road approaching May proceed through said intersection
the intersection of Montague Road and    only after having first brought his or
Haven Gillespie Boulevard from the west  her vehicle to a complete stop
All traffic approaching the intersection May proceed through said intersection
of Audubon Road and Wald Court           only after having first brought their
                                         vehicle to a complete stop
All traffic on Old State Road            May proceed through said intersection
approaching the intersection of Alhambra only after having first brought their
Court                                    vehicle to a complete stop
 
   (B)   The Director of Public Works or his or her delegate shall forthwith:
      (1)   Post stop signs and paint the right-of-way indicating that it is
unlawful to proceed through the intersection of Elberta Circle and Saint Joseph
Lane unless only after having first brought his or her vehicle to a complete
stop; and
      (2)   Post stop signs indicating that it is unlawful fro traffic
proceeding east and west on Old State Road to proceed through the intersection
of Old State Road and Alhambra Court unless only after having first brought his
or her vehicle to a complete stop; and
      (3)   Post no parking signs and appropriately paint the curbs or right-
of-way on the west side of Saint Joseph Lane within its intersection with
Elberta Circle indicating that it is unlawful to park motor vehicles and
equipment.
      (4)   Post stop signs indicating that it is unlawful for traffic to
proceed through the intersections of the following streets, without having
first brought their vehicle to a complete stop:
         (a)   Short Arlington Road and Amsterdam Road (3 way);
         (b)   Park Pointe Drive, Parkvale Court and Amsterdam Road (4 way);
and,
         (c)   The right turn from Hamilton Road to Short Arlington Road.
   (C)   The Director of Public Works or his or her delegate shall forthwith
post a stop sign and paint the rights-of-way indicating that it is unlawful for
traffic proceeding west on Montague Road to proceed through the intersection of
Montague Road and Haven Gillespie Boulevard unless only after having first
brought his or her vehicle to a complete stop.
   (D)   The Director of Public Works or his delegate shall forthwith post stop
signs and paint the rights-of-way indicating that it is unlawful for traffic
proceeding east and west on Audubon Road to proceed through the intersection of
Audubon Road and the future location of Wald Court unless only after having
first brought their vehicle to a complete stop, and that it is unlawful for
traffic proceeding north on the future location of Wald Court to proceed
through the intersection with Audubon Road unless only after having first
brought their vehicle to a complete stop.
(Ord. 15, 2011, passed 10-24-2011; Ord. 9, 2013, passed 6-10-2013; Ord. 16,
2017, passed 10-9-2017; Ord. 6, 2019, passed 7-8-2019; Ord. 7, 2020, passed 12-
14-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. BUS STOP DESIGNATIONS.
   The following are hereby designated to be bus routes.
 
Bus Route      2010 Code
Amsterdam Road §
               71.05
Dixie Highway  §
               71.05
 
SCHEDULE III. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The following are hereby designated to be one-way streets.
 
Street        Specifications                            Ordinance Date
Aberdeen Road Traffic flow only permitted in a westerly 1, 2017   2-13-2017
              direction uphill from Arlington Road
 
   (B)   The Public Works Department is authorized and instructed to install
appropriate signage giving public notice of the designation of one-way streets.
   (C)   Any person found in violation of this schedule shall be fined
according to §
10.99.
(Ord. 1, 2017, passed 2-13-2017)
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking lanes
      
II.   Parking prohibited at certain times
      
III.   Parking prohibited at all times
Cross-reference:
   Parking Regulations, see
Ch. 72
SCHEDULE I. PARKING LANES.
   (A)   The following streets and the sides thereof which are hereinafter
designated shall be no parking zones for the purpose of permitting fire
apparatus and equipment to safely pass on such streets. Parking in the fire
lanes hereinafter set forth is strictly prohibited at all times, and the Police
Department is hereby authorized to impound and tow away any vehicles parked in
these restricted areas in addition to other penalties prescribed in this
chapter, to wit.
Street Restricted Area
Street                      Restricted Area
Aberdeen Road               West or uneven house numbered side
Alhambra Court              East or even house numbered side and both cul-de-
                            sacs
Altavia Avenue              East or even house numbered side and the T-
                            turnaround
Amsterdam Road              North or even numbered side (100 to Sleepy Hollow)
Amsterdam Road (1000 block) From Montague to Terrace Drive parking prohibited
                            on both sides of the street
                            West or uneven house numbered side. In addition, no
Arlington Road              parking on either side of Arlington Road from Dixie
                            Highway to Lot 806
Audobon Lane                 
Audubon Road                Within 30 feet of sign on North East side
Audobon Road                South or uneven house numbered side
Breckenridge Road           West or uneven house numbered side and the cul-de-
                            sac
Cecelia Avenue              South or uneven house numbered side
Cleveland Avenue            East or even house numbered side
Coram Street                North or even house numbered side
Emerson Road                South or uneven house numbered side and the cul-de-
                            sac
Exter Drive                 South or uneven house numbered side
                            (Amsterdam to Arlington) no parking from its
Hamilton Road               intersection with Arlington to its intersection
                            with Amsterdam
Hamilton Road               (Arlington Road to end) north or even house
                            numbered side and the T-turnaround
Harriet Street              East or even house numbered side
Hillcrest Lane              West or uneven house numbered side
Hilltop Drive               North or even house numbered side and the T-
                            turnaround
Irish Rose Lane             Both cul-de-sacs
                            (Upper and lower) north on even numbered side east
Jackson Road                from Cleveland Avenue to 1050 Jackson, and from
                            1050 Jackson southeast uneven-numbered side
                            Uneven house numbered side and the east side
Lawton Road                 adjacent to 1064 Lawton beginning at the catch
                            basin at the top of the road and extending to 1064
                            Lawton’s driveway
Montague Road               East or even house numbered side
Morgan Court                West or uneven house numbered side and the cul-de-
                            sac
Mt. Allen Road              South or uneven house numbered side
Old State Road              North or even house numbered side
Park Drive                  West or uneven house numbered side
Rose Circle                 (Amsterdam to 1025) south or uneven house numbered
                            side
Rosemont Avenue             East or even house numbered side and the 90-degree
                            curve
St. James Avenue            East or even house numbered side
St. Joseph Lane             West or uneven house numbered side
Scenic Avenue               West or uneven house numbered side and the cul-de-
                            sac
Sleepy Hollow Road          State highway- no reg
So. Arlington Road          East or even house numbered side
 
   (B)   The above designated streets and prohibited parking areas thereon
supplement existing regulations but do not nullify said regulations that are
now in existence except when in conflict therewith.
(2010 Code, § 72.05) (Ord. 4, 2011, passed 6-13-2011; Ord. 18, 2015, passed 10-
12-2015)
SCHEDULE II. PARKING PROHIBITED AT CERTAIN TIMES
   The following prohibits parking at certain times within the city.
 
Streets               Time                   Special Provisions      2010 Code
                                             The Chief of Police or
                                             his or her delegate
                                             shall forthwith post
In Trolley Park and                          signs indicating that
the various parking   Between the hours of   it is unlawful to park
spaces located within dusk and dawn          any motor vehicle in    § 72.12
Trolley Park                                 Trolley Park and in the
                                             parking spaces located
                                             within Trolley Park
                                             between the hours of
                                             dusk and dawn
Either side of        From the hours of 6:00
Amsterdam Road from   a.m. to 9:00 a.m. and                          § 72.06
Sleepy Hollow Road to from 2:30 p.m. to 7:00
Terrace Drive         p.m. weekdays
 
SCHEDULE III. PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES.
   The parking of motor vehicles and equipment is totally prohibited at the
following location.
 
Location                      Special Provisions            Ord. No. Date
                              For purposes of this entry,
                              INTERSECTION means that
                              portion of the west side of
On the west side of Saint     Saint Joseph located between
Joseph Lane at and within its the stop signs regulating the
intersection with Elberta     flow of traffic on Saint      15, 2011 10-24-2011
Circle                        Joseph Lane at its
                              intersection with Elberta
                              Circle that are the subject
                              of
                              Chapter 74, Schedule I(B)
 
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
92.   FIREARMS AND OTHER WEAPONS
      
93.   ASSEMBLIES
      
94.   POLITICAL ADVERTISING SIGNS
      
95.   BUSINESS TRANSACTIONS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
96.   NOISE CONTROL
      
97.   COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Removal of animal excrement
Animal Services
   
90.10   Powers of Animal Services
   
90.11   Adoption and mandatory spay/neuter
   
90.12   Dog/cat licensing
   
90.13   Rabies vaccination
   
90.14   Humane treatment of animals
   
90.15   Animals to be under control
   
90.16   Wild and exotic animals
   
90.17   Management of community cat population
   
90.18   Humane societies; standards and licensing
Commercial Animal Establishments
   
90.30   Definitions
   
90.31   Licensing provisions
   
90.32   Minimum standards
   
90.33   Inspections
Carriage Horse Business
   
90.45   Definitions
   
90.46   Licensing provisions
   
90.47   Standards
   
90.48   Habitual violator
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. Any animal left more than 48 hours without a person checking on the
condition of the animal and providing food and potable water or not providing a
timed feeder/waterer or, any animal left on private property without the
owner's consent or deserted or dumped on public property, rights-of-way or
roadways.
   ADEQUATE FOOD. Wholesome food suitable for the species provided at suitable
intervals in a sanitary manner in quantities sufficient to maintain good health
in an animal, considering its age and condition.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER, DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Adequate shelter shall be provided to
any animal(s), with the exception of livestock, that remain outside more than
one continuous hour per day. The shelter must be suitable for the species, age
and condition of the animal. The shelter shall:
      (1)   Be structurally sound, with a solid, level, raised floor, enclosed
sides or walls, and must be properly ventilated. The shelter shall be sanitary
and weather/waterproof. Suitable drainage must be provided so that water is not
standing in or around the structure;
      (2)   Be small enough to allow the animal's body heat to warm the
interior of the structure but be large enough to allow the animal to stand up,
turn around and lie down without touching the walls;
      (3)   Be made from suitable, appropriate, materials to prevent harm or
injury to the animal(s). Unsuitable materials include, but are not limited to,
lean-tos, metal drums, plastic drums, cardboard or other disposable boxes,
vehicles, or the area beneath exposed porches or exposed decks;
      (4)   Provide access to shade from direct sunlight and regress from
exposure to inclement weather conditions, hot or cold, but which does not
exacerbate existing weather conditions;
      (5)   Placed in an area offering the best available protection from
inclement weather, hot or cold;
      (6)   Have floors that are constructed in a manner that protects the
animal's feet (paws, hoofs, etc.) and legs from injury, and that, if of mesh or
slatted construction, do not allow the animal's feet to pass through the
openings of the floor; and,
      (7)   Cardboard, fiberboard or any other structure that fails to protect
an animal from adverse atmospheric conditions shall not be considered proper
shelter.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER, LIVESTOCK. Adequate shelter shall be provided to all
livestock. The shelter shall be either natural or constructed, and must provide
relief from the elements. Accepted natural shelters are natural windbreak from
tree lines or other low areas and natural shade under trees. Accepted
constructed shelters are barns, three-sided shelters, lean-tos and widescreens.
Constructed shelters should be free of hazards likely to cause injury.
   ADEQUATE VENTILATION. Proper air flow and circulation by mechanical, natural
or other means that provide a constant exchange of air, with fresh, clean,
oxygenated air replacing the contaminated, dirty, un-oxygenated air within a
confined space.
   ADEQUATE WARMTH. Sufficient, comfortable degree of temperature of the
confined space or containment area that will not lower nor raise the average
body temperature as appropriate for the species.
   ADEQUATE WATER. A supply of clean, fresh, potable water provided at suitable
intervals or on a continual basis in a sanitary manner suitable for the
species, condition, and age of the animal. The supply shall be in sufficient
amounts to maintain good health in the animal, and in a suitable container
secured to prevent turnover.
   ANIMAL. Any live vertebrate creature.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person designated by the Director of Animal
Services who is qualified to perform the duties under the laws and ordinances
of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and the county and all peace officers. An
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER shall be a law enforcement officer for the purposes of
animal control only.
   ANIMAL SERVICES. The department of the county which is designated by the
Fiscal Court to enforce the provisions of this chapter and to operate the
animal shelter.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises operated or approved for operation by the
Fiscal Court for the purpose of impounding and caring for animals held under
the authority of this chapter.
   AUCTION. Any place or facility where animals are regularly bought, sold or
traded except for those facilities otherwise defined in this chapter.
   BREEDER. Any person who intentionally or accidentally causes the breeding of
more than one litter per female cat or dog in a 12 month period; makes more
than one cat or dog available for breeding purposes in a 12 month period; or,
offers for sale, trades, receives any compensation or gives away more than one
litter of dogs or cats in a 12 month period, with the exception of a litter of
dogs or cats taken to the animal shelter.
   COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any pet shop, boarding or breeding kennel,
grooming facility, auction, petting zoo, zoological park, circus, performing
animal exhibit, breeder, or any person engaged in the business of breeding,
buying, letting for hire, training for a fee, or selling at retail or
wholesale, any species of animal for profit.
   COMMUNITY CAT. Any free roaming cat that may be cared for by one or more
residents of the immediate area who is/are known. A COMMUNITY CAT may or may
not be feral. COMMUNITY CATS are distinguished from other cats by being
sterilized and ear-tipped. COMMUNITY CATS that have been ear-tipped, sterilized
and vaccinated under the Trap-Neuter-Return Program are exempt from licensing,
stray and at-large provisions of this chapter.
   COUNTY. As used herein COUNTY shall mean Kenton County, Kentucky.
   COURT. As used herein, COURT shall mean the Kenton District Court.
   DAY. For the purposes of this chapter, a 24 hour period shall constitute a
DAY.
   DIRECTOR OF ANIMAL SERVICES. The person appointed by the Judge Executive and
approved by the Fiscal Court as the Chief Animal Control Officer.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Animals that are habituated to live in or about the
habitations of human beings, and which are kept, cared for, sheltered, fed or
harbored for use as a pet or as a source of food, raw materials or income.
   DWELLING. A house or other structure in which a human being lives.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any animal not indigenous to the United States.
   EXTREME WEATHER CONDITIONS. When weather conditions are such that a heat
advisory, excessive heat advisory, severe thunderstorm warning, flash flood
warning, blizzard warning, winter storm warning or wind chill advisory is
issued by the National Weather Service.
   GROOMING FACILITY. A commercial establishment where animals are bathed,
clipped or otherwise groomed.
   HUMANE SOCIETY. Any person or organization operating from a fixed site and
taking in or accepting stray or unwanted animals.
   IMPOUNDED. Having been received into the custody of Animal Services or any
authorized representative thereof.
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses or any other animals of the
bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine or equine species.
   OWNED CAT. Any cat that is a companion to a person and is regularly fed and
sheltered in that same person's habitation. All OWNED CATS are required to be
in compliance with licensing, stray and at-large provisions of this chapter,
while community cats that have been ear-tipped, sterilized and vaccinated under
the Trap-Neuter-Return Program are exempt.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping, harboring or sheltering one or more
animals.
   PARAPHERNALIA, ANIMAL FIGHTING. Any bite sticks, weighted chains and/or
collars, spars, animal tread mills, slat mills, carpet mills, fighting pens,
permanent or temporary, injectable or ingestible drugs and supplements used to
enhance fighting, spring poles or weight pull harnesses and equipment.
   PERSON. All natural persons, corporations, partnerships, firms,
associations, governmental bodies, agencies and other similar entities.
   PET. Domesticated animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
   PET SHOP. Any person engaged in the business of breeding, buying, selling at
retail or wholesale, including fish, of any species for profit-making purposes,
except farming operations that breed, buy, or sell at retail pursuant to and in
conjunction with their agricultural use and shall not be considered PET SHOPS
for purposes of this chapter.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal which:
      (1)   Molests passers-by or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Attacks people or other animals;
      (3)   Damages public or private property;
      (4)   Is repeatedly at large;
      (5)   Makes noise in an excessive, continuous or untimely manner for more
than 15 minutes without provocation;
      (6)   Creates unsanitary conditions;
      (7)   Disturbs the peace, comfort or health of persons in any other
manner; or,
      (8)   A home, residence, building, shed, yard, property or other
establishment that contains excessive amounts of feces and/or urine or exudes a
foul odor.
   REASONABLE GROOMING. To maintain an animal's coat to prevent conditions
which inhibits normal walking or the elimination of body waste or which is
medically harmful to the animal.
   RESTRAINT. Enclosed in an area by a form of fencing designed to control the
movement of the animal or secured by a leash, chain or cable tie-out. An animal
shall be deemed to be retrained if it remains on the premises of its owner or
if it is accompanied by a responsible person and is under that person's
immediate control.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Any animal, other than a hunting dog released for the
purpose of hunting that is off the property of the owner, custodian, possessor
or harborer and is not restrained. Community cats that have been ear-tipped,
sterilized, and vaccinated under the Trap-Neuter-Return Program shall not be
considered to be running at large.
   STRAY. Any animal, other than a hunting dog released for the purpose of
hunting that is running at large. Community cats that have been ear-tipped,
sterilized, and vaccinated under the Trap-Neuter-Return Program shall not be
considered STRAY for purposes of this chapter.
   TRAP-NEUTER-RETURN ("TNR"). The method of managing community cats by
humanely trapping, altering, vaccinating, ear-tipping and returning the
community cats to the location where it was trapped where the community cats
will be provided with long-term care by one or more caretakers.
   VETERINARIAN. Any personal licensed by the Commonwealth of Kentucky to
practice veterinary medicine.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL CLINIC. Any establishment maintained and operated by a
licensed veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis and treatment of diseases and
injuries of animals.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL.
      (1)   Any animal which:
         (a)   constitutes a physical threat to human beings or domestic
animals which, due to a known propensity to endanger life, by an unprovoked
assault or bite which has resulted in serious bodily harm; or,
         (b)   when unprovoked, approaches in a terrorizing manner, any person
in an attitude of attack upon streets, sidewalks or any public grounds or
places; or,
         (c)   has a known propensity, tendency or disposition to unprovoked
attacks which cause injury or endanger the safety of human beings or domestic
animals; or,
         (d)   bites to the extent of causing severe injury and assaults or
otherwise attacks human beings or domestic animals; or,
         (e)   is owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
fighting with animals.
      (2)   It shall be prima facie evidence that an animal is VICIOUS if the
animal bites a human being or domestic animal more than once in the same
attack.
      (3)   Exceptions. An animal shall not be deemed VICIOUS solely because:
         (a)   It bites, attacks, or menaces:
            1.   Any person assaulting its owner;
            2.   Any person or animal who has tormented or abused it; or,
         (b)   It is otherwise acting in defense of any attack from a person or
other animal upon its owner or another person; or,
         (c)   It is protecting or defending its young or the young of any
other animal; or,
         (d)   Its breed or assumed/known component of its breed; or,
         (e)   It is protecting or defending its owner's home or property.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal not domesticated or not ordinarily tame and which is
by nature an animal that lives apart from human beings.
(2010 Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 6, 2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 90.02 REMOVAL OF ANIMAL EXCREMENT.
   (A)   Any person or owner of an animal shall remove any excrement deposited
by his or her animal upon public walks, streets, rights-of-way, recreation
areas, or upon the private property of another absent the consent of the owner
or occupant of the property.
   (B)   Any excrement not removed in violation of division (A) above shall be
declared to be a public nuisance.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to guide dogs under the control of a
blind person.
(Ord. 6, 2020, passed 12-14-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
ANIMAL SERVICES
§ 90.10 POWERS OF ANIMAL SERVICES.
   (A)   The Director, Assistant Director and all Animal Control Officers of
Animal Services shall have the powers of a peace officer for the purposes of
enforcing animal control laws or ordinances in the county if they otherwise
qualify as a peace officer under the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (B)   All Animal Control Officers of Animal Services shall comply with the
provisions of KRS 61.300.
   (C)   Whenever it is necessary for Animal Services to make an inspection in
order to perform any duty or enforce any provision of this chapter or any other
applicable state statute, they are hereby empowered to enter property at a
reasonable time and inspect the premises. Animal Services shall have the power
only if consent of the owner or occupant of the property is freely given, a
search warrant is obtained or such exigent circumstances exist that a
warrantless, nonconsensual search is required.
   (D)   All animals of any age running at large, as defined in this chapter,
and found in the county, may be picked up by Animal Services and impounded in
the animal shelter. If Animal Services can reasonably return the animal they
may do so and may issue a uniform citation to the owner. Community cats that
have been ear-tipped, sterilized and vaccinated under the Trap-Neuter-Return
Program may be released back into the community and are not subject to
impoundment under this section.
   (E)   All animals of any age which have bitten a human being may be picked
up by Animal Services and impounded in the animal shelter for any applicable
quarantine period. In the event an animal is impounded for a quarantine period,
the owner shall be responsible for a reasonable fee for board, administration
and medical attention during the impoundment.
   (F)   Any animal that is off the property of its owner and displays behavior
as defined in §
90.01, "vicious animal", and an Animal Control Officer or peace officer has
reason to believe the animal poses a threat to the safety of the general
public, the animal shall be taken into custody by Animal Services and the owner
shall be issued a uniform citation for harboring a vicious animal. The animal
shall remain in the custody of the county until the accused is given a hearing
before the Kenton District Court. Should the Court find probable cause for a
charge of harboring a vicious animal, the Court shall order temporary
forfeiture of the animal to Kenton County Animal Services pending final
disposition of the case.
   (G)   Any dog, required to be licensed but found unlicensed, may be
impounded for a minimum period of five days unless it is earlier claimed by its
owner. If the dog is not claimed by its owner within five days of impoundment,
the dog may then be offered for adoption or may be euthanized at the discretion
of the Director of Animal Services. Any person claiming or reclaiming a dog
pursuant to this section shall pay a reasonable fee for board, administration
and medical attention for the dog during impoundment and obtain proper
licensing, if applicable, from Animal Services. Animal Services shall make
reasonable efforts to locate and inform the owner of any dog that the dog has
been impounded.
   (H)   Any animal involved in an alleged violation of KRS 525.125, 525.130,
525.135, 525.137, or § 90.14 "Humane Treatment of Animals" hereof, may be
confiscated by any Animal Control or peace officer and held in a humane manner.
Upon taking custody of an animal pursuant to KRS 525.125, 525.130, 525.135,
525.137, or §
90.14 "Humane Treatment of Animals" hereof, Animal Services shall give notice
of the seized animal by posting a notice at the location where the animal is
taken into custody or by delivering notice to a person residing at the
property. The animal shall remain in the custody of the county until the
accused is provided a hearing before the Kenton District Court. Should the
Court find probable cause for a charge under KRS 525.125 , 525.130, 525.135,
525.137, or §
90.14 "Humane Treatment of Animals" hereof, the Court shall order temporary
forfeiture of the animal to Kenton County Animal Control.
      (1)   Upon a plea or finding of guilt before the Kenton District Court,
the animal shall become the property of the county. The person convicted for
violating KRS 525.125, 525.130 , 525.135, 525.137, or §
90.14 "Humane Treatment of Animals" hereof, shall pay all reasonable expenses
related to the incidents of cruelty, including investigation, disposition,
veterinary costs, and all costs of maintaining or disposing of the animal
incurred from the date of confiscation up to and including the date of
permanent forfeiture.
      (2)   Upon a dismissal of the charge or a finding of innocence by the
Kenton District Court, the animal shall be immediately returned to the owner.
If the owner does not reclaim the dog within three days of the dismissal or
acquittal, the animal may be offered for adoption or may be euthanized at the
discretion of the Director of Animal Services.
   (I)   When any licensed animal or animal whose owner is known, is impounded
in the animal shelter, Animal Services shall notify the owner, by certified
mail return receipt requested, to the last known address; by personal delivery;
or, by leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence with any
individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed
of the contents of the notice, within three business days of impoundment.
   (J)   The registered owner shall reclaim the animal within three days of the
receipt of notice of impoundment. Any licensed animal or animal whose owner is
known which is not reclaimed by its owner within three days of receipt of the
notice of impoundment may then be offered for adoption or may be euthanized at
the discretion of the Director of Animal Services. Any person claiming or
reclaiming an animal pursuant to this section, shall pay all associated fees
for impound, board, administration and medical attention during the impoundment
and any outstanding civil citation fees.
   (K)   An Animal Control Officer or peace officer may choose to issue a
warning citation in lieu of a uniform citation if a violation is minor in
nature. Violations eligible for the issuance of a warning citation include, but
are not limited to, first contact by any peace officer for: failure to
vaccinate a pet against the rabies virus; failure to license a pet; creating a
public nuisance; animal running at large; the lack of reasonable grooming; or,
veterinary care were the animal has not suffered harm. The warning citation
shall allow up to 14 days to correct the violation, except violations of public
nuisance or running at large shall be corrected immediately. If a violation is
serious in nature, a uniform citation may be issued.
   (L)   An Animal Control Officer or peace officer may choose to issue a civil
citation in lieu of a uniform citation for violations listed in division (K) of
this section where multiple violations of this chapter exist; or, where
personal injury occurred, property was damaged or destroyed, or a previous
warning has been issued. The civil citation shall allow up to 14 days to
correct the violation and pay the associated fee. Violations of public nuisance
or running at large shall be corrected immediately. If a violation is serious
in nature, a uniform citation may be issued.
      (1)   The fee for civil citations issued under this section are as
follows;
         (a)   First citation is $30, per violation.
         (b)   Second citation, in any 12-month period, is $55, per violation.
         (c)   Third citation, in any 12-month period, is $85, per violation.
      (2)   Fourth or subsequent offenses is deemed to be habitual in nature
and not eligible for civil citation and the Animal Control Officer or peace
officer shall issue a uniform citation.
   (M)   Animal Control Officers are authorized to place, upon request, live-
capture animal traps on private or public property to trap and remove stray, at
large, unwanted, or nuisance domestic animals. It shall be unlawful for any
person other than an Animal Control Officer or his or her designee to remove an
animal from the trap or to damage, destroy, move or otherwise tamper with the
trap. Any person requesting a live-capture trap must own the subject property
and shall be responsible for any lost, stolen, damaged, or otherwise altered
traps.
   (N)   All impound, boarding, administration, and medical fees will be set
annually by the Director of Animal Services, with approval of the Fiscal Court.
(Ord. 6, 2020, passed 12-14-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 ADOPTION AND MANDATORY SPAY/NEUTER.
   (A)   Prior to the adoption of any animal from Animal Services an
application must be completed by the person wishing to adopt the animal. The
application is designed to determine the prospective owner's ability to care
for the animal. Any person wishing to adopt an animal who has been issued a
uniform citation for inhumane treatment of animals will not be able to adopt.
   (B)   Kenton County Animal Services is not obligated to sell or transfer
possession of any animal in their custody.
   (C)   All dogs and cats adopted from the animal shelter must be surgically
altered to prevent breeding.
   (D)   The fee for adoption of animals shall be set annually by the Director
of Animal Services, with the approval of Fiscal Court.
(Ord. 6, 2020, passed 12-14-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 DOG/CAT LICENSING.
   (A)   The owners of all dogs and cats, or those who harbor or maintain dogs
and cats in the unincorporated or incorporated areas of the county, shall have
each and every dog and cat licensed, or as an option microchipped and
registered with the Kenton County Animal Services in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and applicable Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (B)   The annual license fee for each dog and cat shall be set annually by
the Director of Animal Services, with the approval of the Fiscal Court. The
current license fee period shall begin on July 1, 2019 and will terminate on
January 31, 2021. Licenses must be renewed each year thereafter during the
month of February. Failure to license, or to renew a license, will result in a
penalty. At the time of licensing and registration, the owner shall provide his
or her name, address and telephone number, as well as the name, breed, color
and sex of each dog/cat to be licensed. Upon payment of the license fee, the
owner shall be issued a certificate of registration and a serial numbered
license tag for each dog/cat. The license tag shall be fastened to the dog's or
cat's collar and worn by the dog or cat at all times.
   (C)   All dogs/cats that are microchipped and registered with Kenton County
on or before June 30, 2004 shall be exempt from the annual licensing fee for
the lifetime of the animal. The microchip shall be county-approved, and coded
with a unique identifying number implanted in the neck of the dog or cat. The
owner shall provide his or her name, address and phone number, as well as the
name, breed, color and sex of each dog/cat microchipped. The information, along
with the unique identifying number, will be entered into the computer database
for future reference. Upon payment of the microchip fee, the owner shall be
issued a certificate of registration for each dog/cat implanted. Should the
ownership of the dog/cat change for any reason whatsoever, the change of
ownership shall be made in the database for a nominal fee to be set by the
Fiscal Court.
   (D)   Failure to register a dog or cat and to obtain the license set forth
herein within 30 days of acquiring or possessing the animal, or failure to
renew during the month of February each year thereafter, or failure to display
the license on the dog, or failure to microchip a dog in place of buying a
license shall result in a fine as provided in §
90.99.
   (E)   Community cats that have been ear-tipped, sterilized, and vaccinated
under the Trap-Neuter- Return Program are exempt from the licensing
requirements of this section.
(Ord. 6, 2020, passed 12-14-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13 RABIES VACCINATION.
   (A)   All dogs, cats, and ferrets, four months of age and older, shall be
vaccinated for rabies and revaccinated for rabies at the expiration of the
immunization period as certified by a veterinarian.
   (B)   Any dog or cat reclaimed or adopted from the animal shelter must have
a valid rabies vaccination or purchase a rabies voucher prior to release.
   (C)   Any dogs or cats found not to have been vaccinated for rabies, whether
discovered by a veterinarian or by other means, must be vaccinated within 14
days of the date of discovery.
(Ord. 6, 2020, passed 12-14-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14 HUMANE TREATMENT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to abandon any animal.
      (1)   In the event that an animal is found abandoned, such animal may be
taken by an Animal Control Officer or peace officer and impounded at the animal
shelter and there be confined in a humane manner. Such animal, if taken from
private property, shall be kept for not less than the prescribed period in
accordance with the procedures set forth in §
90.10 of this chapter, or for any longer period required by law, regulation, or
medical necessity. In the event an animal is so abandoned, the owner or person,
if any, who he or she has charged with the animal's care, shall be subject to a
citation or civil penalties for any violation of this section.
      (2)   Any animal found not under restraint without a license or
vaccination tag, or any animal found in a condition that requires immediate
veterinary care, shall be presumed to be abandoned, and shall be seized.
      (3)   Notice of seizure of an abandoned animal from private property
shall be posted on the premises from which the animal was seized, which notice
shall clearly state the address and telephone number for the animal shelter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to inhumanely treat any animal,
including, but not limited to, the deprivation of necessities, beating,
mutilating, torturing, killing, overloading, overworking, or otherwise abusing
any animal. Nothing herein shall prevent Animal Services from humanely
euthanizing any animal.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit, display or keep any
animal without providing adequate food, adequate water, adequate shelter or
medical attention.
   (D)   Any dog which is chained, tied or otherwise connected by means other
than a leash being held by a person shall be provided no less than ten feet of
chain, rope, cable or other similar material, and shall be situated in a manner
that prevents injury, strangulation, or entanglement. Dogs that are chained,
tied, or otherwise connected by means other than a leash being held by a person
shall be properly fitted with and wearing non-choke, buckle-type collar or
harness made of leather, nylon, or similar material, and shall not be tethered
by use of a choke collar, or on any collar too small for the size and age of
the animal. The tether must be attached to the dog's collar or harness and not
directly to the dog's neck, or of such unreasonable weight as to prevent the
animal from moving about freely. Dogs shall be not tethered in any unsafe area
and must be at least ten feet from the edge of any public road or sidewalk.
Dogs shall not be tethered during extreme weather conditions, or while the dog
is sick or injured. Dogs under the age of five months may not be tethered
unattended, and multiple dogs should be tethered separately.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep an animal within the
passenger compartment of an automobile without adequate ventilation in the
summer or adequate warmth in the winter. No person shall enclose any animal in
the trunk of an automobile. An Animal Control or Police Officer shall rescue
any animal confined in such a manner. No person shall use any automobile as a
temporary or permanent shelter for animal(s).
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stage, cause, instigate,
permit, observe, or attend any dog-fight, cock-fight, bull-fight, or other
combat between animals or between animals and humans. Animals altered for
fighting purposes and animals with scarring from previous fighting may be
considered evidence of unlawful animal combat.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person(s) to own, harbor, or be in
possession of animal fighting paraphernalia.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person to set free any hare, rabbit,
gerbil, domesticated rat, guinea pig, other pet rodent, snake, lizard, turtle,
other pet reptile, or other animal for the purpose of violating any provision
of this chapter.
   (I)   No performing animal exhibition, circus or horse show, shall be
permitted, in which the animals are induced or encouraged to perform through
the use of chemical, mechanical, electrical or manual devices in a manner which
will cause or is likely to cause physical injury or suffering. All equipment
used on animals in such shows shall fit properly and be in good working order.
   (J)   Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes a domestic
animal, shall stop at once and render assistance as may be possible and shall
immediately report such injury or death to the animal's owner, if known, or to
Animal Control or any Police Officer.
   (K)   No person shall expose any poisonous substance, whether mixed with
food or not, so that the same shall be likely to be eaten by a domestic animal,
provided that the substance shall not be unlawful for a person to expose on his
or her own property, poisonous substance, or to Animal Control or any Police
Officer.
   (L)   No person shall give away any live animal as a prize or for inducement
to enter any contest, game or other competition or as an inducement to enter
into any business agreement, whereby the offer was for the purpose of
attracting the trade, except that it shall not be unlawful to give away small
fish, not to exceed four inches, as a prize.
   (M)   It shall be unlawful for any person to color, stain, dye or otherwise
change the natural color of any live animal or to offer such colored animals
for sale in the county, except that the mane and tail of an equine may be
changed pursuant to accepted practices in showing the equine.
   (N)   It shall be unlawful to sell baby chicks, ducks or rabbits under the
age of two months in quantities less than six.
   (O)   It shall be unlawful to place an animal in the rear of a truck without
securing the animal so that the animal cannot jump out.
   (P)   It shall be unlawful to possess more than six domestic (cats and/or
dogs) or exotic animals or a combination thereof in one's residential dwelling
if that said dwelling is within 100 feet of a neighbor.
   (Q)   It shall be unlawful to allow dogs, cats or other domestic animals to
remain outdoors during extreme weather conditions. Dogs, cats or other domestic
animals must be moved indoors or to an area that provides protection from the
extreme weather condition.
   (R)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use a muzzle that causes injury
to a dog, interferes with its vision, respiration or ability to drink. It shall
be unlawful to muzzle any dog unless doing so is reasonably calculated to
prevent injury to people or animals.
(Ord. 6, 2020, passed 12-14-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.15 ANIMALS TO BE UNDER CONTROL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any animal owned or
harbored by him or her, to run at large. When livestock are running at large,
Animal Control or a peace officer shall make reasonable efforts to notify the
owner as soon as possible. If reasonably possible and feasible, the owner of
the livestock shall be notified prior to the actual capture and impoundment of
the livestock.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to own or possess a vicious animal.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to own or possess an animal that conducts itself
in such a manner as to constitute a public nuisance.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to allow a female dog to be exposed during estrus
(in season, in heat) so as to attract male dogs. Every female that is "in
season" shall be confined in a building or secure enclosure in such a manner
that such female dog cannot come in contact with a male dog except for planned
breeding. Females shall not be restrained by tie out, chain, rope, cable, leash
or otherwise restrained and left unattended while "in season".
   (E)   Community cats that have been ear-tipped, sterilized and vaccinated
under the Trap-Neuter- Return Program shall not be considered to be running at
large under this section.
   (F)   Pursuant to KRS 258.215, a hound or other hunting dog which has been
released from confinement for hunting purposes shall be deemed to be under
reasonable control of its owner or handler while engaged in or returning from
hunting, and, if a hunting dog becomes temporarily lost from a pack or wanders
from actual control or sight of its owner or handler, the owner or handler
shall not be deemed to be in violation of the provisions of this section as a
result of the dog's having become temporarily lost or having wandered from
immediate control or sight of the owner or handler.
(Ord. 6, 2020, passed 12-14-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 WILD AND EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to sell, own, harbor or keep as a pet, a wild or
exotic animal, not indigenous to the United States, unless the animal has been
approved for sale or retention by appropriate state and federal governmental
agencies and any required permits have been obtained.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to sell, own, harbor or keep as a pet, a wild
animal native to the United States, unless the animal has been approved for
sale or retention by appropriate state and federal governmental agencies and
any required permits have been obtained.
(Ord. 6, 2020, passed 12-14-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 MANAGEMENT OF COMMUNITY CAT POPULATION.
   (A)   A Trap-Neuter-Return Program will be developed by Animal Services to
address the issues presented by feral and other community cats, recognizing
that there are caretakers of community cats.
   (B)   A Trap-Neuter-Return Program will permit Animal Services to engage in
the trapping of community cats for the purpose of sterilization, vaccination or
ear-tipping for easy identification, and providing of other necessary medical
care for community cats.
   (C)   A caretaker providing for a community cat(s) may offer certain
necessities on a regular/ongoing basis, including, but not limited to, proper
nutrition of food and water and medical care. If medical care is unavailable or
too expensive, a caregiver should contact Animal Services for assistance to
prevent harm to a community cat.
   (D)   If the requirements of division (C), above, are met, the caretaker is
exempt from licensing and other provisions of this chapter that apply to owned
cats.
   (E)   Anyone providing necessities to community cats shall adhere to the
management standards listed below to reduce reproduction and prevent the
attraction of wildlife, vermin or insects. Failure to adhere to standards shall
be deemed a public nuisance.
      (1)   Food must be presented in a container and not thrown on the ground;
      (2)   Uneaten food must be picked up after one hour;
      (3)   Trash must be removed and the area kept clean;
      (4)   Cats shall be encouraged to stay away from people such as by
feeding away from streets and public sidewalks;
      (5)   If providing shelter, ensure that shelters are insulated, blends in
with the surrounding and are free of standing water and moisture; and,
      (6)   Provide rabies vaccinations and spay/neuter services to prevent
reproduction or contact Animal Services regarding the same.
(Ord. 6, 2020, passed 12-14-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 HUMANE SOCIETIES; STANDARDS AND LICENSING.
   (A)   All humane societies in the county shall be governed by the same
standards set forth in §§
90.30 et seq. of this chapter, and shall be subject to any ordinance pertaining
to commercial animal establishments.
   (B)   Humane societies shall maintain records on each animal accepted or
housed, noting the following:
      (1)   Name and address of previous owner or person turning in the animal;
      (2)   Date the animal is received;
      (3)   Condition of the animal and any medical treatment;
      (4)   Date of adoption, redemption or euthanasia; and,
      (5)   Name and address of new owner.
(Ord. 6, 2020, passed 12-14-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 90.30 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions provided in §
90.01 of this chapter, the following definition shall apply to the provisions
of this subchapter, unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   OWNER or OPERATOR. Any person, group of persons, partnership, corporation or
any other legal entity owning or operating a commercial animal establishment.
This definition does not apply to veterinarians as long as animals on the
premise are there for treatment only.
(Ord. 6, 2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 90.31 LICENSING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Licensing. All commercial animal establishments shall obtain and
maintain a valid commercial animal establishment license in order to operate a
commercial animal establishment within the county.
   (B)   The commercial animal establishment licenses shall be issued by the
Kenton County Fiscal Court through Animal Services. An application to obtain a
commercial animal establishment license shall be completed by each commercial
animal establishment. A separate application must be completed for each
location in the case of commercial animal establishment chains and/or
franchises. The premises for which a license is being granted shall be
inspected by Animal Services. Animal Services shall issue a commercial animal
establishment license to the applicant upon payment of the required fee and
passing of the required inspection.
   (C)   The commercial animal establishment license shall be valid for a
period of one year. Licenses issued prior to June 30, 2020 will be extended
until January 31, 2021 and thereafter all licenses are due for renewal in the
month of February commencing in 2021.
   (D)   The commercial animal establishment license shall be renewed annually.
   (E)   The annual fee for a commercial animal establishment license shall be
set by the Director of Animal Services and approved by the Kenton County Fiscal
Court.
(Ord. 6, 2020, passed 12-14-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.32 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   (A)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide an adequate
environment for each animal which is compatible with the general health and
welfare of the animal.
   (B)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide adequate space for
each animal. Each cage or enclosure shall be large enough for the animal to
stand, sit, lie and turn around without touching the walls or ceiling of the
cage or enclosure, or another animal.
   (C)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide adequate
sanitation. Each cage or enclosure shall be maintained as follows:
      (1)   Indoor containment:
         (a)   Cages or enclosures containing dogs or cats, of any age, shall
be cleaned with hot water, disinfectant and detergent daily (including
holidays), or more frequently if conditions require additional cleaning or
disinfecting to keep animals out of contact with feces or urine. Litter boxes
shall be cleaned daily (including holidays) and the litter changed when needed.
         (b)   Cages or enclosures containing birds shall contain a perch and
shall be cleaned with hot water and disinfectant at least twice weekly or more
frequently if conditions require additional cleaning.
         (c)   Cages or enclosures containing small animals besides a dog or
cat shall be cleaned with hot water and disinfectant at least twice weekly or
more frequently if conditions require additional cleaning.
         (d)   Cages or enclosures must be designed and constructed of suitable
materials so that they are structurally sound and kept in good repair. Cages or
enclosures must be constructed and maintained so that they:
            1.   Have no sharp points or edges that could injure the animal(s);
            2.   Are safe for their designed use;
            3.   Contain the animal(s) securely;
            4.   Keep other animals from entering the enclosure;
            5.   Enable the animal(s) to remain dry and clean; and,
            6.   Provide animals with easy and convenient access to clean food
and water.
      (2)   Outdoor containment:
         (a)   If dogs are contained outdoors, their cage or enclosure must be
designed and constructed of suitable materials so that they are structurally
sound and kept in good repair. Cages or enclosures must be constructed and
maintained so that they:
            1.   Have no sharp points or edges that could injure the animal(s);
            2.   Are safe for their designed use;
            3.   Contain the animal(s) securely;
            4.   Keep other animals from entering the enclosure;
            5.   Enable the animal(s) to remain dry and clean;
            6.   Provide animals with easy and convenient access to clean food
and water;
            7.   Provide protection and shelter from extreme weather
conditions;
            8.   Provide sufficient shade from direct rays of sun;
            9.   Have floors that are constructed in a manner that protects
animal(s) feet and legs from injury, and that, if of mesh or slatted
construction, do not allow the animals feet to pass through any openings in the
floors; and,
            10.   All surfaces in contact with animals shall be cleaned and
sanitized daily (including holidays).
      (3)   Minimum standards for housing.
         (a)   All commercial animal establishments shall adhere to the
following minimum space standards for enclosures housing dogs, based upon the
individual dog's height and weight:
 
Canine category Size/length/weight     Square footage required Housing size
                equivalency                                    equivalency
Miniature       0-19" or up to 10 lbs  4 square feet           2 feet x 2 feet
Small           20-29" or up to 20 lbs 8 square feet           2 feet x 4 feet
Small/medium    30-39" or up to 35 lbs 12 square feet          3 feet x 4 feet
Medium          40-49" or up to 50 lbs 20 square feet          4 feet x 5 feet
Medium/large    50-59" or up to 75 lbs 30 square feet          5 feet x 6 feet
Large           60"+ up to 76 lbs      36 square feet          6 feet x 6 feet
 
         (b)   Violations of the minimum standards for housing of dogs pursuant
to this chapter shall not apply to veterinary establishments where restricting
a dog's movements is medically necessary.
   (D)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide adequate
nourishment and
water for each animal as follows:
      (1)   Each animal shall be given fresh food and water daily, including
holidays;
      (2)   Soft food shall be available to those animals unable to chew
standard dry food;
      (3)   Potable water shall be available to each animal at all times; and,
      (4)   Food and water containers shall be washed and disinfected daily.
   (E)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide proper medical
treatment from a licensed veterinarian for sick or injured animals.
   (F)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide an adequate room
(cage) temperature for the general health and welfare of the animal, suitable
to that species' general health and welfare.
   (G)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide for general
cleanliness of its establishment and shall not permit an insect or rodent
infestation.
   (H)   All commercial animal establishments shall obtain any necessary
licenses or permits from an appropriate state or federal agency to offer for
sale any exotic or wild animal.
   (I)   All commercial animal establishments must be sufficiently ventilated
at all times when animals are present to provide for animal health and well-
being, and to minimize odors, drafts, ammonia levels and moisture condensation.
   (J)   All commercial animal establishments keeping animals indoors must be
well lit to permit routine inspection and cleaning of the facility, and
observation of animals.
(Ord. 6, 2020, passed 12-14-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.33 INSPECTIONS.
   The Director or Assistant Director of Animal Services or any Animal Control
Officer shall be permitted and empowered to make an inspection of any
commercial animal establishment within the county, and shall further be
permitted to take photographs of commercial animal establishments during the
inspection. The inspection shall take place upon the verbal request of the
Director or Assistant Director of Animal Services or any Animal Control
Officer, during regular business hours of the commercial animal establishment.
(Ord. 6, 2020, passed 12-14-2020)
CARRIAGE HORSE BUSINESS
§ 90.45 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions provided in §
90.01 of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply to the provisions
of this subchapter, unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   CARRIAGE. Any device designed to be drawn by a horse, in, upon or by which
any person may be transported or drawn on public streets or in public or quasi-
public places.
   CARRIAGE HORSE BUSINESS. Any person owning or operating a horse-drawn
carriage for compensation.
   COMPENSATION. Any fare, reward, tip, donation or other thing of value which
a driver, owner, or operator of a horse-drawn carriage accepts or receives, or
offers to receive, in return for furnishing such a service.
   HORSE. An animal of genus equis.
   OWNER or OPERATOR. Any person, group of persons, partnership, corporation or
any other legal entity owning or operating carriage horse business.
   PERSON. Shall include person, firm, partnership, association and
corporation.
(Ord. 6, 2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 90.46 LICENSING PROVISIONS.
   Licensing:
   (A)   All carriage horse businesses shall obtain and maintain a valid
carriage horse business license in order to operate a carriage horse business
within the county.
   (B)   The carriage horse business licenses shall be issued by the Kenton
County Fiscal Court through Animal Services. An application to obtain a
carriage horse business license shall be completed by each carriage horse
business. A separate application must be completed for each carriage horse
business location. The premises for which a license is being granted shall be
inspected by Animal Services. Animal Services shall issue a carriage horse
business license to the applicant upon payment of the required fee and passing
of the required inspection.
   (C)   The carriage horse business license shall be valid for a period of one
year. Licenses issued prior to June 30, 2020 will be extended until January 31,
2021. Thereafter, all licenses are due for renewal in the month of February
commencing in 2021.
   (D)   The carriage horse business license shall be renewed annually.
   (E)   The annual fee for a carriage horse business license shall be set
annually by the Director of Animal Services and approved by the Kenton County
Fiscal Court.
(Ord. 6, 2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 90.47 STANDARDS.
   (A)   Any person owning or operating a horse-drawn carriage for compensation
shall, in addition to other requirements of this chapter, comply with the
standards of this section.
   (B)   All working horses shall be provided daily with food and water which
is free from contamination. Such food shall be wholesome, edible and of
sufficient quantity and nutritive value to meet the normal daily requirements
for the condition, size and species of the animal.
   (C)   All horses shall have adequate shelter.
      (1)   All buildings and sheds used for stabling horses shall be well-lit
and ventilated. The building must provide adequate protection from the weather
and be kept clean and in good repair at all times. Manure and urine shall be
removed daily.
      (2)   Any enclosures where animals are kept shall be graded and raked as
to keep the surface reasonably dry.
      (3)   Clean bedding must be provided.
   (D)   Flies and other insects must be controlled through general sanitation
and necessary means.
   (E)   All horses used in a carriage horse business must weigh at least 800
pounds and be considered in generally good health. Any owner or operator who
desires to use a horse for this purpose which does not weigh 800 pounds must
apply in writing to Animal Services for approval.
   (F)   Any horse working for a carriage horse business must be examined, not
less than every four months, by a veterinarian, who shall certify the fitness
of the animal to perform such work. Horses exhibiting any of the following
shall be deemed unfit for work:
      (1)   Sores or abrasions caused or likely to be aggravated by the bearing
of services, girth, harness, or bridles, unless padding could be utilized to
protect the area.
      (2)   Serious injury or illness.
      (3)   Obvious signs of emaciation, malnutrition, lameness, or exhaustion.
   (G)   Horses requiring veterinary care shall not be moved, ridden or driven,
except for the purpose of humane keeping, pasturing or obtaining medical care.
   (H)   Horses shall be properly shod, and the hooves shall be kept trimmed.
   (I)   Horses shall be kept clean, particularly in the areas in contact with
a harness or other tack.
   (J)   Horses shall not be worked for more than two hours without being given
a total of 30 minutes of rest. The maximum working period for any one animal is
ten hours out of every 24 hours.
   (K)   No horse shall be overridden or driven to result in overheating or
exhaustion.
   (L)   Horses shall not be worked when the temperature of the workplace
reaches or exceeds 95°F. Animals which are on heat stress-preventive treatment
that has been prescribed by a veterinarian may be worked while under such
treatment on contracts entered into prior to the beginning of such treatment.
   (M)   The speed at which any horse is driven shall not exceed a slow trot.
   (N)   Horses shall be provided water at the loading site and on routes at
all times they are working.
   (O)   All harnesses and bridles shall be kept oiled, cleaned, and in good
repair.
   (P)   Carriages must be kept properly lubricated and wheels must spin
freely.
   (Q)   Animal Services may order quarantine on the entire premises where the
animals are being stabled or any part thereof or on any particular animal for
any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Excessive parasitism, diagnosed by a veterinarian, which would
cause the animal to be unfit to be ridden or driven.
      (2)   General malnutrition, as diagnosed by a veterinarian.
      (3)   Presence of contagious or transmittable disease, as diagnosed by a
veterinarian.
   (R)   Owners and operators of a carriage horse business shall not permit
unsanitary conditions to be present on any road in the county, animal rest area
or any area where the animals are kept. All such areas shall be kept clean and
free of conditions which might harbor or be conducive to the breeding of
insects or rodents.
   (S)   No horse shall be made to perform by means of any prod, stick,
electrical shock, physical force or by causing pain or discomfort. Any whip or
ridding crop must be used so as not to cause injury to the animal.
   (T)   No horse may pull a carriage carrying more people than it is designed
to carry by the manufacturer, nor shall a carriage be pulled by fewer animals
than provided for by design.
(Ord. 6, 2020, passed 12-14-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.48 HABITUAL VIOLATOR.
   Any person who receives four or more warning citations and/or civil
citations in any 12 month period shall be in violation of being a habitual
violator and subject to penalties.
(Ord. 6, 2020, passed 12-14-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person failing to comply with the following sections shall, upon
conviction, be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter and, in addition to
proof of compliance, where applicable, on a first offense shall be fined not
less than $25 nor more than $100; and on a second or subsequent offense shall
be fined not less than $50 nor more than $250. Each day shall constitute a new
and separate violation.
      (1)   §
90.02 Failing to comply with the removal of animal excrement.
      (2)   §
90.10(M) Tampering with Animal Services traps.
      (3)   §
90.11 Failing to comply with mandatory spay/neuter requirements.
      (4)   §
90.12 Failing to license or renew a license for a dog or cat.
      (5)   §
90.13 Failing to vaccinate against the rabies virus.
      (6)   §
90.15(A) Animal running at large.
      (7)   §
90.15(A) Livestock running at large. Owner must reimburse the county for all
reasonable fees incurred in capturing, impounding, boarding, and necessary
medical services.
      (8)   §
90.15(C) Owning an animal which is a public nuisance.
      (9)   §
90.15(D) Failing to confine a female dog in heat.
      (10)   §
90.16 Failing to have permits for wild or exotic animals.
      (11)   §
90.17(E) Caregiver failing to adhere to standards for community cats.
      (12)   §
90.18 Humane society failing to obtain license, meet standards or keep records.
      (13)   §
90.31 Commercial animal establishment failing to obtain license.
      (14)   §
90.32 Commercial animal establishment failing to meet standards.
      (15)   §
90.46 Carriage horse business failing to obtain license.
      (16)   §
90.47 Carriage horse business failing to meet standards.
   (B)   Any person violating the following sections of this chapter shall,
upon conviction, be deemed guilty of a Class B Misdemeanor and be fined not
more than $250, and sentenced up to 90 days in the county jail, or both. Each
day shall constitute a new and separate violation.
      (1)   §
90.14 First offense of violations related to the humane treatment of animals.
      (2)   §
90.15 First offense of owning or possessing a vicious animal. In addition to
any penalties imposed, the Court shall order one of the following:
         (a)   That as a condition of retaining the animal it must be
microchipped, spayed/neutered and registered as a vicious animal with Animal
Services. It must be confined in a secure, locked enclosure, designed to
prevent digging out or escape and prohibits the entry of small children. The
enclosure must have a sign warning of a "vicious animal" which is visible from
the roadway or any public access. The enclosure must be inspected and approved
by Animal Services. The animal may only leave the enclosure for veterinary care
at which time it must be muzzled, on a leash no longer than three feet and
under the direct control of the owner. The owner must notify Animal Services in
the event the animal is loose, unconfined, has attacked an animal or human
being or is deceased; or,
         (b)   The Court may order the animal euthanized.
      (3)   §
90.48 Being a habitual violator. Any humane society, commercial animal
establishment or carriage horse business found guilty of being a habitual
violator shall have its license revoked.
   (C)   Any person violating the following sections of this chapter shall,
upon conviction, be deemed guilty of a Class A Misdemeanor and be fined not
more than $500, or sentenced up to 12 months in the county jail, or both. Each
day shall constitute a new and separate violation.
      (1)   §
90.14 Second or subsequent offense relating to the humane treatment of animals.
      (2)   §
90.15 Second or subsequent offense relating to owning or possessing a vicious
animal. If the violation involves the same animal, the Court shall order the
animal immediately euthanized.
(2010 Code, §§ 90.05 and 90.10) (Ord. 11, 2017, passed 6-26-2017 Ord. 6, 2020,
passed 12-14-2020)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
Littering
   
91.01   Littering prohibitions
   
91.02   Responsibility of general construction contractor or property owner
   
91.03   Littering generally
   
91.04   Throwing litter from vehicles
   
91.05   Enforcement
   
91.06   Reward
   
91.07   Exceptions for property owners
Nuisances
   
91.10   Statutory authority
   
91.11   Definitions
   
91.12   Nuisances described and prohibited
   
91.13   Hearing Board; responsibility for enforcement
   
91.14   Elimination of violations by the city
   
91.15   Violations
   
91.16   Owners liability and lien of the city
   
91.17   [Reserved]
   
91.18   [Reserved]
   
91.19   [Reserved]
   
91.20   [Reserved]
   
91.21   Unsafe sidewalks
   
91.22   Unsafe sidewalk abatement procedure
   
91.23   Criminal activity as a nuisance
   
91.24   Private roads and roads not accepted by the city for maintenance
   
91.25   [Reserved]
   
91.26   Abatement procedure for imminently dangerous conditions
   
91.27   [Reserved]
   
91.28   [Reserved]
   
91.29   [Reserved]
   
91.30   [Reserved]
   
91.31   Chronic nuisance
Compost and Yard Waste
   
91.45   Definitions
   
91.46   Owners duty to maintain compost and yard waste
   
91.47   Improperly maintained compost and yard waste piles; nuisance
   
91.48   Notice to remove or otherwise correct
   
91.49   Service of notice
   
91.50   Contents of notice
   
91.51   Failure to remove or correct
   
91.52   Owner to be billed; certification to City Clerk/Treasurer
Non-Smoking Policy
   
91.65   Smoking prohibited
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Officers, Employees, and Organizations, see
Ch. 30
LITTERING
§ 91.01 LITTERING PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall cause or permit the littering on the streets of the city, or
the dropping, placing, raking, or plowing of dirt, leaves, yard waste, snow, or
other objects upon said streets or sewer inlets or drains.
(2010 Code, § 91.01) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 RESPONSIBILITY OF GENERAL CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTOR OR PROPERTY OWNER.
   Any general construction contractor or any owner of property who permits any
person working for or with him or her in connection with the construction,
remodeling, repairing, or any work in connection with said property to litter
the streets with dirt or other objects, shall be deemed to be responsible for
such violation of this section.
(2010 Code, § 91.02) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 LITTERING GENERALLY.
   Any person who places, deposits, throws, or dumps, or causes to be placed,
deposited, raked, plowed, thrown, or dumped, any garbage, swill, cans, bottles,
glass, crockery, wood, trees, or parts thereof, paper boxes, carcass of a dead
animal, offal, trash, litter, leaves, yard waste, snow, debris, or refuse of
any kind whatsoever, in or upon any public highway or road, including any
portion of the right-of-way thereof, including sewer inlets or drains, or in or
upon any private property into or upon which the public is admitted by easement
or license, or upon any private property, or in or upon any public park or
other public property other than property designated or set aside as a public
dump by the governing body having jurisdiction thereof, shall incur a civil
fine or penalty in an amount provided within §§
30.100 through
30.109.
(2010 Code, § 91.04)
§ 91.04 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLES.
   When any paper, waste material, litter, or other refuse as described above
is thrown or dropped from a motor vehicle, the operator thereof shall be deemed
prima facie to have violated this section.
(2010 Code, § 91.06) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all Code Enforcement Officers and city police
officers to enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(2010 Code, § 91.07)
§ 91.06 REWARD.
   A reward of $50 shall be paid to the person giving information leading to
the arrest and conviction of any person, firm, or corporation violating this
subchapter.
(2010 Code, § 91.08)
§ 91.07 EXCEPTIONS FOR PROPERTY OWNERS.
   No portion of this subchapter shall be construed to restrict a private owner
in the use of his or her own private property except where otherwise prohibited
by law.
(2010 Code, § 91.09)
NUISANCES
§ 91.10 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish a nuisance ordinance under KRS
65.8840(6).
(Ord. 2-2016, passed 1-11-2016; Ord. 23, 2016, passed 12-12-2016)
§ 91.11 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATEMENT COSTS. Has the meaning provided in KRS 65.8840(1).
   ANYBODY. Any human being, or any organization or combination thereof, in the
form of a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture,
unincorporated association or otherwise.
   BANNER SIGN. Any commercial sign composed of any pliable plastic or cloth,
without a rigid supporting frame.
   BUILDING. Any relatively permanent enclosure consisting of no less than
three connected walls covered by a roof.
   CITY. The City of Park Hills.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Has the same meaning provided in KRS 65.8840(1).
   COMMERCIAL SIGN. Any sign which includes any information, message or
identification which is, in any way, related to the promotion of any business
or commerce.
   CONTROL. To exercise restraint or direction over.
   DELIVER. Includes any manner of delivery that conforms to the federal and
state constitutional requirements for procedural due process.
   EVERYBODY. Every human being, and every organization or combination thereof,
in the form of a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint
venture, unincorporated association or otherwise.
   FOWL. Any hen, rooster, chicken, duck, turkey, pheasant or any of several
other, usually gallinaceous, birds.
   FRONT YARD. That portion of a lot or parcel of real estate that extends from
the street upon which the principle building on that lot or parcel fronts, for
the full width of that lot or parcel, back to every part of the front (as
distinguished from the sides and back) of that principle building.
   GRAFFITI. Any display of words, letters, numbers, design or symbols
scrawled, by hand or otherwise, in any ink, paint, chalk, dye or any other
medium on any building or structure, without the consent or authority of the
owner thereof, and which is within view from any public property or right-of-
way.
   IMMINENTLY DANGEROUS. A condition which could cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that is:
      (1)   Wrecked or otherwise in a state of disrepair or disassembly;
      (2)   Mechanically inoperable; or
      (3)   Legally inoperable on public streets and highways.
   LIVESTOCK. Animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, camelide
and cervid species, including, without limitation, horses, cattle, sheep, swine
and goats.
   MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE. Has the same meaning provided in KRS 224.1-010(30)(A)
(4).
   MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE CONTAINER. A clean, covered, rigid metal or plastic
container with a capacity of no less than 30 gallons and no more than 96
gallons.
   NOBODY. No human being, or any organization or combination thereof, in the
form of a corporation, partnership, joint venture, unincorporated association
or otherwise.
   OUTSIDE. An area of a lot or parcel of real estate that is not enclosed
within a building.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Has the same meaning provided in KRS 227.550(11).
   RUBBISH. Worthless, discarded material.
   UNLEASHED ANIMAL. Any animal that is not secured and controlled by the owner
or custodian of that animal by means of a leash.
   UNSOLICITED WRITTEN MATERIAL. Any written material that is distributed to
any lot or parcel of real estate in the city without the affirmative express
invitation or permission of an owner or occupant of that lot or parcel of real
estate.
(Ord. 2-2016, passed 1-11-2016; Ord. 23, 2016, passed 12-12-2016)
§ 91.12 NUISANCES DESCRIBED AND PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The following actions, omissions, behavior, conditions and occurrences
upon any lot or parcel of real estate within the city are hereby declared to be
public nuisances and violations of this chapter; and nobody, including, without
limitation, landlords and tenants, shall, by either act or omission, conspire,
cause, permit, encourage, aid, assist, allow or engage in any of them, or fail
to exercise any authority to prevent the occurrence thereof, including, without
limitation, the eviction of tenants who cause, permit, encourage, aid, assist,
allow or engage in any of them.
   (B)   Public nuisances include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Any unreasonable or unlawful condition or use of or upon any lot or
parcel of real estate in the city or any structure thereon that is detrimental
to the value, use or enjoyment of the property of others in the vicinity of
that lot or parcel of real estate, for which, after inspection, a citation may
issue, including, without limitation:
         (a)   Those in violation of the provisions of the International
Property Maintenance Code, published by the International Code Council, Inc. as
amended from time to time and enacted by city ordinance;
         (b)   Those structures that are designed and intended for human
habitation, occupancy or use that become unfit and unsafe for human habitation,
occupancy or use or have conditions in them that are dangerous or injurious to
the health or safety of the occupants of the structure, the occupants of
neighboring structures or other residents of the city;
         (c)   Those in violation of the standards of safety promulgated
pursuant to KRS 227.300, which are hereby adopted by the city pursuant to the
requirements of KRS 227.320; and
         (d)   Those in violation of the provisions of the NFPA 1 Uniform Fire
Code published by the National Fire Protection Association, as amended from
time to time and enacted by city ordinance.
      (2)   The accumulation of any rubbish on any portion of any lot or parcel
of real estate outside of any building.
      (3)   Use of any portion of any residential lot or parcel of real estate
outside of a building for the location of any broken, inoperable or otherwise
non-functional vehicles, equipment, machinery or furniture or any parts
thereof, or the location of any scrap or salvage material, or the location of
any other tangible personal property.
      (4)   The location of one or more mobile or manufactured homes as defined
in KRS 227.550 that are junked, wrecked, or non-operative and which are not
inhabited.
      (5)   The growth of weeds or grass in excess of four inches above the
surface of the ground on any lot or parcel of real estate that is less than
four acres in area and developed with the public utilities of water,
electricity and sewers.
      (6)   The parking of any recreational vehicle, boat or trailer anywhere
in any residential area except for only one of any such vehicles:
         (a)   In the rear yard of any lot or parcel of real estate;
         (b)   In any area of a side yard that is continuously paved with
blacktop or concrete, provided that no part of such vehicle is within one foot
of any point in the nearest boundary line; or
         (c)   In any driveway during the period after May 1 and before October
15 in any calendar year, provided that:
            1.   The area thereof occupied by any such vehicle is in addition
to all off street parking areas required by this chapter;
            2.   There is no more than one of any such vehicles parked, stored
or otherwise located in any portion of any driveway on any one lot or parcel of
real estate at any one time; and
            3.   No part of any such vehicle is within one foot of any point in
the nearest boundary line.
         (d)   Under no circumstance may any recreational vehicle, boat, or
trailer be permitted to remain in a residential area more than five consecutive
days and no more than a total of 25 days per year.
         (e)   However, a recreational vehicle, boat or trailer less than 20
feet in length from tongue to bumper may remain indefinitely provided it rests
on a paved surface behind the front-most portion of the home. The paved surface
may also be in the rear of the house.
      (7)   The accumulation of any municipal solid waste anywhere unless it is
enclosed within a covered municipal solid waste container.
      (8)   The location of any municipal solid waste or recycling container in
the front yard of any lot or parcel of real estate in the city at any time
other than that period of time that begins at 6:00 p.m. on the day before the
day that municipal solid waste or recycling is scheduled by the city for
collection from that real estate and ends at 6:00 a.m. on the following day.
      (9)   The occurrence of any sound, odors or anything else from any animal
or animals on any lot or parcel of real estate in the city that unreasonably
interferes in any way with the occupation, use or enjoyment of any other lot or
parcel of real estate in the city by any owner, tenant, occupant, resident or
user thereof.
      (10)   The location of any rubbish on any public sidewalk or rights-of-
way and the failure of those with any ownership or possessory interest in any
lot or parcel of real estate abutting thereon to remove it within a reasonable
period of time after such rubbish has been deposited thereon.
      (11)   Any commercial sign that isn't in a condition of good repair, and
in a clean, neat and safe and functional condition in compliance with all
applicable laws, including, without limitation, all building and property
maintenance codes.
      (12)   The occurrence, existence or continuation of any graffiti.
      (13)   The outside storage or other location of any equipment in any
front or side yard where it may be seen from a public street, while that
equipment is in a position or condition in which the design and purpose of that
equipment may not be accomplished.
      (14)   Any outdoor swimming pool in which:
         (a)   The water in the pool is contaminated with dangerous disease
causing pathogens, including bacteria; however
         (b)   Water may be retained and impounded in the pool to a depth of 24
inches or more at any one point; so long as the pool area is surrounded by a
fence that is at least four feet in height. The fence must limit access to the
pool, except that it may have one or more gates. Each gate must have an
automatic self-closing mechanism.
      (15)   Any fowl or livestock within ten feet of the closest lot and which
are restricted to being maintained in the rear of the property. Roosters are
entirely prohibited.
      (16)   The distribution or accumulation of any unsolicited written
material on any portion of any lot or parcel of real estate in the city outside
of a building other than:
         (a)   On a porch, if one exists, nearest to the front door;
         (b)   Securely attached to a door;
         (c)   Between an exterior door and an interior door; or
         (d)   Personally with any occupant of the lot or parcel of real
estate.
      (17)   The use of any residential lot or parcel of real estate outside of
a building for the storage or other location of any inoperable motor vehicles
or any motor vehicle parts.
      (18)   The use of any lot or parcel of real estate, or any portion
thereof, including, without limitation, any building or any portion thereof
located on that lot or parcel of real estate, for any criminal activity
involving disorderly conduct, alcoholic beverages, firearms, menacing, physical
injury to person or property, deadly weapons, gambling, prostitution, or
controlled substances, or any other felony or misdemeanor to such an extent
that there have been documented responses to any of them by peace officers or
other personnel of the city on five or more separate occasions within any one
period of 12 consecutive calendar months; provided that an owner of that lot or
parcel of real estate has been notified at least once during that period of 12
consecutive calendar months of the occurrence of any such criminal activity;
and provided further that the eviction of any tenants of that lot or parcel of
real estate who were involved in such criminal activity shall be a defense to
any civil or criminal prosecution for a violation of this section.
      (19)   The use of any paved area other than sidewalks within the right-
of-way of any street within the city for any athletic or other recreational
activity.
      (20)   The location of any apparatus for the athletic or other
recreational use of any area within the right-of-way of any street within the
city, whether that apparatus is located within or outside of that right-of-way.
      (21)   Any tree, shrub, or bush located on private property, which
endangers any public street or highway, any vehicle or person, any public
sidewalk or any public property.
      (22)   The location of any motor vehicle in any manner that any portion
of it is on or above any portion of any sidewalk in the city, potentially
blocking the pedestrian use thereof.
      (23)   The location of any inoperable motor vehicle anywhere within the
right-of-way of any street in the city.
      (24)   Being the owner of a dog, to permit or to allow his or her dog to
do any of the following:
         (a)   To run at large within the city. AT LARGE means on or off the
premises of the owner and not under the immediate effective control of the
owner or custodian either by leash, cord, or chain, or effectively confined
within a fenced area on the owner's premises.
         (b)   To trespass upon another person's real property or to in any
manner injure or destroy any real or personal property belonging to another
person.
         (c)   To bark, howl, cry, whine or make any other noise or do anything
else in such a manner that it unreasonably interferes with the occupation, use
and enjoyment of any other property in the city.
      (25)   Any loud, unreasonable or excessive noise in violation of any of
the provisions of Chapter 96 of this Code and referred to as the Noise
Ordinance.
(Ord. 2-2016, passed 1-11-2016; Ord. 23, 2016, passed 12-12-2016; Ord. 9, 2021,
passed 8-23-2021; Ord. 10, 2023, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 91.13 HEARING BOARD; RESPONSIBILITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   The Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board shall act as the Hearing
Board for enforcement of this chapter. The responsibility for the enforcement
of the nuisance code is delegated to the city Police Department. The Kenton
County Joint Code Enforcement Board and the city Police Department shall
operate in accordance with Ch. 30 of the city code in the enforcement of this
chapter.
(Ord. 15, 2017, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 91.14 ELIMINATION OF VIOLATIONS BY THE CITY.
   In the event that a determination of the Code Enforcement Officer that the
violations described in a citation were committed by the person to whom the
citation was issued becomes final, and the violation(s) identified therein
continue thereafter, the city shall cause those violations to be abated through
either employees of the city or contracts with others.
(Ord. 2-2016, passed 1-11-2016; Ord. 15, 2017, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 91.15 VIOLATIONS.
   A violation of this chapter occurs whenever anybody, by either act or
omission, conspires, causes, permits, encourages, aids, assists, allows or
engages in any of the acts, actions, behavior, conditions and occurrences
prohibited by this chapter; and each and every day of each continuing
occurrence thereof is a separate violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2-2016, passed 1-11-2016; Ord. 15, 2017, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 91.16 OWNERS LIABILITY AND LIEN OF THE CITY.
   The city shall possess a lien on real property owned by the person found by
a final order of the Hearing Board, or by final judgement of a court, to have
committed a violation of this chapter in the amount of all fines assessed for
the violation, for all charges, and fees incurred by the city in connection
with the enforcement of this chapter, and bear interest until paid. The city
may also abate the nuisance and the lien shall include abatement costs under
KRS 65.8805(7). The lien shall also include attorneys’ fees incurred as an
additional penalty. The lien shall be superior to and have priority over all
other liens on the property, except state, county, school board, and city
taxes. A person found to have committed a violation of this chapter shall be
personally liable for the amount of all fines assessed for the violation and
for all charges and fees incurred by the city in connection with the
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 15, 2017, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 91.17 [RESERVED].
§ 91.18 [RESERVED].
§ 91.19 [RESERVED].
§ 91.20 [RESERVED].
§ 91.21 UNSAFE SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   In the interest of protecting the health and safety of the residents
of the city, it is hereby declared to be a nuisance for any property owner to
allow the sidewalk which abuts his or her property to be in an unsafe condition
or in a state of disrepair. Every person owning real estate in the city is
charged with a responsibility of maintaining and shall maintain and keep in
proper repair at his or her expense, that portion of the sidewalk which
parallels and/or abuts the street or streets and/or lies within the street
rights-of-way immediately in front of, alongside of, or in the rear of the
person’s estate.
   (B)   Every such property owner shall repair all holes, uneven surfaces, or
other defects in said sidewalk, and he or she shall reconstruct and replace all
or any part of said sidewalk that is not capable of ordinary restoration or
repair. The material used for such repair, replacement, or reconstruction shall
be of the similar grade and texture as that used in the construction of the
sidewalk, and pursuant to §
91.22.
(Ord. 2-2016, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 91.22 UNSAFE SIDEWALK ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It is the duty of the Director of Public Works of the city to
supervise the construction, repairs, or maintenance of all sidewalks within the
city.
   (B)   Whenever the Director of Public Works shall determine that any
sidewalk blocks, including bricks and paving stones, are in such condition by
reason of having a crack or cracks, holes, depressions, reveling, spalling,
heaving, or are so uneven in relation to one another or are so sloped, or
contain stumps, side posts, or other obstructions, or retain such water stop-
boxes, gas stop-boxes, or similar items that are not on grade level, or are in
such other conditions as to present a hazard to persons utilizing such
sidewalks blocks or to the public right-or-way or public improvements in or
near such sidewalk blocks as to require repair or replacement of such sidewalk
blocks, the Director of Public Works shall notify the persons charged with the
responsibility of maintaining, repairing, or replacing the sidewalk blocks as
hereinafter provided.
   (C)   Whenever any block of sidewalk or sidewalks are requiring repair, the
Director of Public Works shall notify in writing the persons owning the real
estate who are responsible for repairing the blocks of the sidewalk or sidewalk
area to the effect that such repairs shall commence within 30 days and be
completed within 60 days of the date of the mailing of the notice to the last
known address of those persons. Records maintained by the County Property
Valuation Administration may be relied upon to determine the identity and
address of the property owner. Receipt of such notice shall be presumed
conclusively unless and until notification of a change of address of the owner
is received by the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (D)   If, in the judgment of the Director of Public Works, the work
performed is unsatisfactory, or has not been performed in accordance with the
applicable specifications, the Director of Public Works shall give written
notice thereof to the owner and shall proceed under the provisions set forth
herein.
   (E)   The Director of Public Works shall have the power to adopt and
promulgate rules and regulations to interpret and implement the provisions of
this subchapter to secure the intent thereof to designate requirements
applicable because of local climactic or other conditions.
   (F)   An appeal to the Mayor may be taken by any person or entity, claiming
to be injuriously affected or aggrieved by any order, requirement,
interpretation, or decision of the Director of Public Works under this
division. Such appeal shall be taken within 30 calendar days after the person
aggrieved or his or her agent receives notice of the action of the Director of
Public Works, by filing with the Director of Public Works and with the City
Clerk/Treasurer a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof and giving
notice of such appeal. The Director of Public Works shall forthwith transmit to
the Mayor all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed
from was taken and shall be treated as and be the respondent in such further
proceedings. At the public hearing on the appeal held by the Mayor, an
interested person may appear and be given an opportunity to be heard.
   (G)   The Mayor shall fix a reasonable time for hearing the appeal and give
written notice thereof to the appellant and to the Director of Public Works at
least one calendar week prior to the hearing, and shall decide on the appeal
within 60 consecutive calendar days after the date of the hearing. The Mayor
has authority to hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that there is an
error in any official action, order, requirement, interpretation, or decision
of the Director of Public Works in the enforcement of the sections of Ch. 52 of
the city code governing sidewalks. The affected party may appear at the hearing
in person or by attorney. In the matter of appeals under the provisions of this
section, the Mayor shall have the power to issue subpoenas to compel witnesses
to attend its meetings and give evidence bearing upon the questions before it.
The Mayor shall have the power to administer oaths to witnesses prior to their
testifying on any issue.
   (H)   Any person or entity claiming to be injured or aggrieved by any final
action of the Mayor shall appeal from the action to the Circuit Court of the
county. Such appeal shall be taken within 30 consecutive calendar days after
the final action of the Mayor. All actions that are not appealed within 30 days
become final and non-appealable.
(Ord. 2-2016, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 91.23 CRIMINAL ACTIVITY AS A NUISANCE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the definitions are as
set forth herein or, if not established herein, then as defined in §
91.20.
      CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The same meaning as set forth at KRS 65.8805
(4).
      CRIMINAL ACTIVITY NUISANCE. Any building or premises where law
enforcement officers have, on more than one occasion in the preceding 12-month
period, cited or arrested persons for crimes involving prostitution, controlled
substances, alcohol, outdoor gambling, or illegal aliens, or have executed
court-issued search warrants for crimes involving prostitution, controlled
substances, alcohol, outdoor gambling, or illegal aliens.
      CRIMINAL NUISANCE VIOLATION. A criminal citation, arrest, or court-issued
search warrant for crimes involving prostitution, controlled substances,
alcohol, outdoor gambling, or an illegal alien or illegal aliens.
      ILLEGAL ALIEN.
         (a)   Any individual or individuals whose initial entry into the
United States was illegal and whose current status is also illegal; or
         (b)   Any individual who, after entering into the United States
legally, has failed to leave upon the expiration of his or her visa.
   (B)   Unlawful use of property. No owner of residential, commercial, or
vacant real property located in the city shall allow his, her, or their
property to be used as the site for any criminal activity nuisance after having
received a citation pursuant to this section that the property has been used
for the commission of a criminal activity nuisance. A legal or equitable owner
of such property is deemed to have knowledge of such activity upon receipt of a
civil citation as set forth in this section.
   (C)   Destroying orders or citations. No person or owner shall destroy,
remove, or deface any order or citation posted by a Code Enforcement Officer.
   (D)   Disobeying orders. No person or owner shall disobey any order issued
by a Code Enforcement Officer, or use, occupy, or permit any other person to
use or occupy any premises ordered closed by a Code Enforcement Officer or
other governing authority.
   (E)   Duty of Police Department. The Chief of the City Police Department
shall, as soon as possible, but not more than 15 days after criminally citing
or arresting persons or executing a court-issued search warrant for a crime
involving prostitution, controlled substances, alcohol, outdoor gambling, or
illegal aliens, notify a Code Enforcement Officer in writing of the specific
violation investigated, the address of the property on or in which the
violations occurred, and the circumstances of the violation. The Chief of the
City Police Department shall also provide said notice to a Code Enforcement
Officer upon becoming aware that any law enforcement agency has criminally
cited or arrested persons or executed a court-issued search warrant for a crime
involving prostitution, controlled substances, alcohol, outdoor gambling, or
illegal aliens at any property within the city. After the Chief of the City
Police Department notifies a Code Enforcement Officer of a criminal nuisance
violation at a property for the first time, the Code Enforcement Officer shall
notify the owner of the property of such violation in writing via regular
United States mail.
   (F)   Civil citations. Whenever a Code Enforcement Officer receives notice
or other information that a criminal activity nuisance exists in or upon
residential, commercial, or vacant property, i.e., that a second criminal
nuisance violation has occurred at or on the property, he or she shall notify
the owner that the property is a criminal activity nuisance and that the
nuisance must be abated. The notice shall take the form of a civil citation. If
a property owner reports illegal activity that leads to a criminal arrest,
criminal citation or court-ordered search warrant, such arrest, citation, or
warrant will not be considered a criminal nuisance violation for purposes of
this section. The civil citation required by this section shall be mailed by
certified mail, return receipt requested. If certified mail is not accepted or
received by the property owner, the citation may be served by personal delivery
upon the owner. If the whereabouts of the property owner is unknown and it
cannot be ascertained by a Code Enforcement Officer in the exercise of
reasonable diligence, or if the whereabouts of the owner is known and he or she
refuses to accept personal service or the certified mail directed to him or
her, then the Code Enforcement Officer shall make an affidavit to that effect,
and thereafter, the officer may serve the citation by posting a copy of it in a
conspicuous place on the premises, by sending a copy of the citation by regular
United States mail to the property owner’s last known mailing address, by
newspaper publication, pursuant to KRS Ch. 424, and by recording the citation
in the County Clerk’s office at Covington, Kentucky.
   (G)   Abatement.
      (1)   Should the criminal activity nuisance not be abated at the time
stated in the citation, or by any extension granted by the Code Enforcement
Officer issuing the citation, then the Code Enforcement Officer is authorized
at any time thereafter to issue an order closing and vacating the premises, or
portions thereof, to the extent necessary to abate the criminal activity
nuisance. Such closing and vacating shall be for such period as a Code
Enforcement Officer reasonably may direct, but in no event shall the closing
and vacating be for a period of more than one year from the date of the
closing. A close and vacate order issued by a Code Enforcement Officer pursuant
to this section is not an act of possession, ownership, or control by the city.
A close and vacate order will be rescinded within 14 days after the criminal
activity nuisance is abated unless the premises are the site of repeated close
and vacate orders.
      (2)   If the premises consist of multi-unit dwellings or mixed uses and
the criminal activity nuisance has occurred solely within a unit or units, the
authority to close and vacate is restricted to the unit in which the criminal
activity nuisance has occurred, and does not extend to any other unit in the
premises.
      (3)   Upon the issuance of any order provided for in this section, a copy
of the order shall be served on the owner of the property in the same manner as
a citation provided for in this section, and a copy shall be conspicuously
posted on the property.
      (4)   If any person or owner fails to comply with an order to close and
vacate issued pursuant to this section, a Code Enforcement Officer may:
         (a)   Prohibit the furnishing of utility service, including but not
limited to gas, electric, water, and heating oil, to the premises by any public
utility holding a franchise to use the streets and public ways of the city;
         (b)   Revoke the certificate of occupancy of the premises or the
occupational license of a business; or
         (c)   Use any other civil remedy available under the laws of the
commonwealth.
      (5)   Pursuant to the provisions of KRS 65.8840, the city possesses a
lien against the premises for all fines, penalties, charges, and fees imposed
and for the reasonable value of labor and materials used to abate a criminal
activity nuisance. This lien shall be superior to and have priority over all
other subsequent liens on the property except ad valorem taxes, and may be
enforced by judicial proceeding.
   (H)   Eviction as a defense.
      (1)   It shall be a defense to a violation of this section if the owner
has instituted an eviction proceeding within 30 days upon receipt of a citation
under this section against the offending tenant or occupants of the offending
premises, and the owner completes the eviction within 75 days of commencement
or as soon thereafter as court procedures allow. In the event that judicial or
quasi-judicial proceedings prohibit an owner from proceeding with an eviction,
abatement of the criminal activity nuisance by eviction will be stayed until
the judicial or quasi-judicial proceeding is resolved.
      (2)   In the case of multi-unit dwellings, the only parties necessary to
name in an eviction proceeding are the occupants of the actual unit involved in
the activity suspected, or the occupants suspected of the activity described in
the citation.
   (I)   Relief from order. The City Code Enforcement Board may vacate or
suspend the provisions of an order to close and vacate upon a showing by clear
and convincing evidence by the property owner that the criminal activity
nuisance has been abated and will not be maintained or permitted in any unit on
the premises.
   (J)   Other remedies available. Enforcement of this section does not impair
or restrict the ability of the city to bring a separate action to revoke the
occupational license of a landlord, or business who allows a criminal activity
nuisance to exist on the premises or to bring a proceeding before the City Code
Enforcement Board for the imposition of civil fines, pursuant to §§
30.100 through
30.109. No civil fines will be assessed by the Code Enforcement Board if an
eviction proceeding has been instituted pursuant to division (H) above.
(2010 Code, § 92.03A) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.24 PRIVATE ROADS AND ROADS NOT ACCEPTED BY THE CITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The city has no duty to maintain private roads or public roads not
accepted by the city for maintenance.
   (B)   Private roads and public roads not accepted by the city for
maintenance, and that provide necessary access for emergency vehicles, must be
maintained in a reasonably safe manner by the owners of property adjacent to or
served by the road.
   (C)   All new private roads and public roads not accepted by the city for
maintenance shall be surfaced, designed, and constructed in accordance with the
standards for the surfacing of new off-street parking set forth in §
13.0(M) of the Park Hills Zoning Ordinance.
   (D)   Failure to maintain a private road or public road not accepted by the
city for maintenance under division (B) or failure to surface, design, or
construct a road under division (C) of this section shall constitute a nuisance
under §
91.12.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, ROAD shall include streets and alleys.
(Ord. 2-2016, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 91.25 [RESERVED]
§ 91.26 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE FOR IMMINENTLY DANGEROUS CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Any property condition which the city reasonably determines to be
imminently dangerous to the health and safety of city residents may be
summarily abated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section.
   (B)   Actions taken to abate imminently dangerous property conditions may
include, but are not limited to, repair, removal, or demolition of the
condition creating the danger and/or the restriction from use or occupancy of
the property on which the dangerous condition exists or any other abatement
actions determined by the city to be necessary.
   (C)   (1)   Whenever the city determines that summary abatement is justified
by an imminently dangerous condition, circumstance, or occurrence, the city
shall give reasonable notice, not to exceed five business days, to the property
owner as to the nuisance and prior to the demolition of any unfit or unsafe
structure, the property owner shall be afforded the right to a hearing before
the Mayor or his or her designee.
      (2)   If the property owner cannot be located or the owner fails to take
prompt appropriate action to abate the condition, the city may proceed to take
abatement action authorized in this section to the extent necessary to remedy
the immediate danger without further notice or right to a prior hearing.
   (D)   (1)   Whenever the city takes action to abate imminently dangerous
property conditions, the property owner shall be liable for all costs of such
abatement. Charges for nuisance abatement shall be a lien upon the premises.
Whenever a bill for charges remains unpaid for 14 days after it has been
rendered, the City Clerk/Treasurer may file with the County Clerk a statement
of lien claims. This statement/affidavit shall contain a legal description of
the premises, the expenses and costs incurred, the date the nuisance was
abated, and a notice that the city claims a lien for this amount. The affidavit
of the authorized city officer shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
amount of the lien and the regularity of the proceedings. The lien shall be
notice to all persons from the time of the recording and shall bear interest at
6% per annum thereafter until paid. Notice of the lien shall be mailed to the
owner of the premises if his or her address is known. However, failure to
record the claim or to mail the notice, or the failure of the owner to receive
the notice, shall not affect the right to foreclose the lien for charges.
      (2)   The lien shall take precedence over all other liens, except state,
county, school board, and city taxes, and the city may bring a civil action
against the owner and have the same remedies as provided for the recovery of a
debt owed. The city’s lien shall include the costs incurred in all legal
actions necessary to forclose the lien, which costs shall include reasonable
attorneys’ fees.
   (E)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid imminent danger abatement
charges shall be sold for nonpayment, and the proceeds of the sale shall be
applied to pay the charges after deducting costs, as is the case in the
foreclosure of statutory liens. This foreclosure shall be in equity in the name
of the city.
   (F)   The City Attorney is authorized to institute such proceedings in the
name of the city in any court having jurisdiction over the matter against any
property for which the bill has remained unpaid for 14 days after it has been
rendered, upon direction by the Mayor.
(Ord. 17, 2013, passed 12-9-2013; Ord. 2-2016, passed 1-11-2016; Ord. 23, 2016,
passed 12-12-2016)
§ 91.27 [RESERVED]
§ 91.28 [RESERVED]
§ 91.29 [RESERVED]
§ 91.30 [RESERVED]
§ 91.31 CHRONIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   Chronic nuisance property - violations.
      (1)   Any property within the boundaries of the city that becomes a
chronic nuisance property, as defined herein, is in violation of this section
and subject to its remedies.
      (2)   Any person who permits property under his or her ownership or
control to be a chronic nuisance property, as defined herein, shall be in
violation of this section and subject to its remedies.
   (B)   Definitions.
      AGREEABLE WRITTEN ABATEMENT PLAN. An abatement plan approved by the
Police Chief, Code Enforcement Officer, or other designee of the Mayor.
      CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY. Property on which three Or more nuisance
activities exist or have occurred during any 60-day period or on which 12 or
more nuisance activities exist or have occurred during any 12-month period.
      CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A Code Enforcement Officer as defined in KRS
65.8840(1).
      CONTROL. The authority to regulate, restrain, dominate, counteract, or
govern property, or conduct that occurs on property.
      GOOD CAUSE. Circumstances beyond the ability of a person acting with
reasonable care and diligence to control.
      NUISANCE ACTIVITIES.
         (a)   Any of the following activities, behaviors or conduct:
            1.   Harassment, as defined in KRS 525.070 through 525.080.
            2.   Public intoxication or alcohol intoxication, as defined in KRS
525.100 or KRS 222.202.
            3.   Disorderly conduct, as defined in KRS 525.055 or KRS 525.060.
            4.   Murder, manslaughter, or reckless homicide, as defined in KRS
507.020, 507.030, 507.040, or 507.050.
            5.   Assault, menacing, wanton endangerment, terroristic
threatening, criminal abuse, stalking, or disarming a police officer, as
defined in KRS 508.010 through KRS 508.160.
            6.   Burglary or criminal trespass, as defined in KRS 511.010
through KRS 511.090.
            7.   Criminal mischief, as defined in KRS 512.010 through KRS
512.060.
            8.   Arson, as defined in KRS 513.010 through KRS 513.040.
            9.   Theft, as defined in KRS 514.010 through KRS 514.090.
            10.   Receiving stolen property, as defined in KRS 514.110.
            11.   Robbery, as defined in KRS 515.010 through KRS 515.030.
            12.   Prostitution, promoting prostitution, permitting
prostitution, or human trafficking, as defined in KRS 529.010 through KRS
529.110.
            13.   Endangering the welfare of a minor or unlawful transaction
with a minor, as defined in KRS 530.060 through KRS 530.080.
            14.   Distribution of obscene matter, promoting sale of obscenity,
or voyeurism, as defined in KRS 531.010 through 531.110.
            15.   Sexual exploitation of minors, as defined in KRS 531.300
through KRS 531.370.
            16.   Drug possession or trafficking, as defined in KRS 218A.010
through KRS 218A.1444.
            17.   Weapons related offenses, as defined in KRS 527.010 through
KRS 527.210.
            18.   Violations of protection orders, as defined in KRS 403.763.
            19.   Alcohol related offenses, as defined in Chapter 112 of the
code of ordinances.
            20.   Any violation of any ordinance of the city, or a violation of
any state or federal law, statute or regulation.
            21.   Any attempt to commit and/or conspiracy to commit any of the
activities, behaviors or conduct listed in this section.
            22.   Violations of §
91.12 of the code.
         (b)   Exemptions. The following activities shall be exempt from the
provisions of this chapter:
            1.   Contact made to police or other emergency services, if:
               i.   The contact was made with the intent to prevent or respond
to domestic violence, sexual violence, or any non-criminal emergency situation;
               ii.   The intervention of emergency assistance was needed to
respond to or prevent domestic violence, sexual violence, or a non-criminal
emergency situation; or
               iii.   The contact was made by, on behalf of, or concerns an
individual with a disability and the purpose of the contact was related to that
individual’s disability;
            2.   An incident or incidents of actual or threatened domestic
violence or sexual violence against a tenant, household member, or guest
occurring in the dwelling unit or on the premises.
         (c)   To qualify, all nuisance activities must be based on either:
            1.   Personal observation of a police officer or Code Enforcement
Officer; or
            2.   A determination by a police officer or Code Enforcement
Officer, either after an investigation or following a sworn statement of a
person who personally witnessed the alleged incident that the alleged nuisance
activities did, in fact, occur.
      PERMIT. To suffer, allow, consent to, or acquiesce by failing to prevent,
or expressly assenting or agreeing to the doing of an act.
      PERSON. Any natural person, agent, association, firm, partnership,
corporation, limited liability company, or any other entity capable of owning,
occupying, possessing, or using property in the city.
      PERSON ASSOCIATED WITH THE PROPERTY. Any person who, on the occasion of a
nuisance activity, has entered, patronized, visited, or attempted to enter,
patronize or visit, or waited to enter, patronize or visit a property or any
person present on a property. PERSON ASSOCIATED WITH THE PROPERTY includes,
without limitation, any officer, director, customer, agent, employee, or any
independent contractor of a property, the person in charge, or an owner of a
property.
      PERSON IN CHARGE. Any person with actual or constructive possession of a
property including, but not limited to, an owner or occupant of property under
his or her ownership or control. When an owner of the property and the occupant
of a property under his or her ownership or control are not the same person,
the person in charge shall include both such persons.
      POLICE CHIEF. The Chief of Police of the city.
      POLICE OFFICER. Shall mean a police officer as defined in KRS 15.420.
      PROPERTY. Any property, including land and that which is affixed,
incidental or appurtenant to land, including but not limited to any business or
residence, parking area, loading area, landscaping, building or structure or
any separate part, unit or portion thereof, or any business equipment, whether
or not permanent. For property consisting of more than one unit, property may
be limited to the unit or the portion of the property on which any nuisance
activity has occurred or is occurring, but includes areas of the property used
in common by all units of property including, without limitation, other
structures erected on the property and areas used for parking, loading, and
landscaping. Multi-dwelling units, motels, and hotels constitute one property
for the purposes of Ch. 91.
      RESIDENTIAL LANDLORD. An owner of property upon which is located one or
more dwelling units leased or otherwise rented to tenants solely for
residential purposes, or a mobile home park or other permanent or semi-
permanent site at which lots are leased or otherwise rented to tenants for the
parking of a manufactured home, mobile home, or recreational vehicle that is
used solely for residential purposes.
   (C)   Procedure - city enforcement.
      (1)   When the Police Chief, a Code Enforcement Officer, or the designee
of the Police Chief or Code Enforcement Officer receives information
documenting the existence of activities which qualify as nuisance activities:
         (a)   The Police Chief or a Code Enforcement Officer shall
independently review such report(s) to determine whether a chronic nuisance
property as defined in division (B), above, is established by the information.
         (b)   Upon a determination that a chronic nuisance property exists,
the Police Chief or Code Enforcement Officer shall issue a notice of violation
to the person in charge, that the property has been determined to be a chronic
nuisance property and request an abatement plan from the person in charge.
         (c)   The notice to the person in charge, shall contain the following
information:
            1.   The street address or a legal description sufficient for
identifying the property.
            2.   A statement that the Police Chief or Code Enforcement Officer
has determined the property to be a chronic nuisance property with a concise
description of the nuisance activities leading to this determination.
            3.   A demand that the person in charge respond in writing within
ten calendar days to the Police Chief or Code Enforcement Officer by either
describing the actions the person in charge intends to take to abate the
nuisance activities (i.e., an abatement plan), or demonstrating good cause as
to why the person in charge cannot abate the nuisance activities.
            4.   That an agreed abatement plan must be reached with the Police
Chief or Code Enforcement Officer within 30 days from the date of the notice of
determination of chronic nuisance property.
            5.   That if the Nuisance Activities are not abated and good cause
for failure to abate is not shown, a citation under Ch. 91 of the city's
municipal code may be issued.
            6.   That permitting the existence of a chronic nuisance property
is a violation of this section.
            7.   That the above remedies are in addition to those otherwise
provided by law.
         (d)   The notice may be delivered in person, or sent registered mail
with return receipt requested. The notice may be delivered to the property
itself, or to the mailing address of the owner of the property as listed on the
city tax roll, or to any other address that is likely to give the person in
charge notice of the determination of the Police Chief or Code Enforcement
Officer.
         (e)   The failure of any person to receive notice shall not invalidate
or otherwise affect the proceedings under this section.
      (2)   The Police Chief or Code Enforcement Officer may issue a citation
when:
         (a)   The person in charge fails to respond within ten calendar days
from the date of the notice of determination of chronic nuisance property by
the Police Chief or Code Enforcement Officer; or
         (b)   No agreeable written abatement plan is reached within 30
calendar days from the notice of determination of chronic nuisance property by
the Police Chief or Code Enforcement Officer, and the Person in charge fails to
establish one of the affirmative defenses provided in division (C)(6) or (C)(7)
of this section;
         (c)   The person in charge fails to abate the nuisance activities from
the property as required by the agreed abatement plan; or
         (d)   The person in charge fails to comply continuously with all
conditions of the written abatement plan for a period of one year from the date
the Police Chief or the Code Enforcement Officer approves the abatement plan by
signing the plan.
      (3)   If the person in charge is both a person with actual or
constructive possession of the property and a legal owner of the property, then
both persons must agree to any proposed abatement plan within the time allotted
under division (C)(1)(c)4. of this section. Failure of both to agree to a
proposed abatement plan shall result in a finding by the Police Chief or Code
Enforcement Officer that the abatement plan is not agreeable under division (C)
(2)(b) of this section.
      (4)   Failure to respond, failure to abate the nuisance activities, or
failure to propose an abatement plan shall be prima facie evidence of lack of
cooperativeness of the person in charge. Failure to execute or comply with any
abatement plan shall be prima facie evidence of lack of good faith in
mitigating or correcting deficient conditions on the property.
      (5)   When a person in charge makes a response to the Police Chief or
Code Enforcement Officer, as required in division (C)(1)(c)3. of this section,
conduct or statements made in connection with the response do not constitute an
admission that any nuisance activities have occurred or are occurring. This
subsection does not require exclusion of any evidence that is otherwise
admissible or offered for any other purpose.
      (6)   Residential landlord affirmative defense: A residential landlord
has an absolute defense to a charge under this section if it establishes by a
preponderance of the evidence that the basis for the charge is the actions or
omissions of its tenant(s), and the residential landlord establishes all of the
following:
         (a)   That the residential landlord undertakes a reasonably
appropriate screening process for prospective tenants including diligence into
the criminal background of prospective tenants and the residential landlord did
not knowingly rent to a tenant with a felony conviction or conviction involving
drugs or violence. A residential landlord's employment of a screening process
vendor approved by the city results in a rebuttable presumption that the
landlord undertook a reasonably appropriate screening process. No provision in
this section requires landlords to violate federal or state fair housing laws.
         (b)   That the residential landlord includes language in its leases
providing that violations of federal, state, or local laws by tenants or their
guests is a ground for eviction with 30 days or less notice;
         (c)   That the residential landlord, upon written notice by the city
that a nuisance activity has occurred on their property within the prior 30
days, commences an eviction action against the tenant whose action or omission
forms the basis of the charge, and diligently prosecutes that action to
completion, irrespective of any ultimate ruling by a court on the merits of
that action. A residential landlord shall not be responsible for prosecuting a
forcible entry and detainer action against the tenant or their guests whose
action or omission forms the basis of the charge if the city fails to give the
notice provided in this section.
      (7)   Good cause affirmative defense: Any person charged under this
section has an absolute defense to any such charge if it establishes by a
preponderance of the evidence that:
         (a)   The person charged has taken all appropriate actions to deter
and prevent the nuisance activity forming the basis of the charge on its
property;
         (b)   The nuisance activity that forms the basis of the charge was not
the result of the actions or omissions of person charged, their authorized
guests, or any other person residing in their household; and
         (c)   The nuisance activity that forms the basis of the charge was not
permitted by the person charged.
   (D)   Procedure - resident enforcement. Any city resident adversely affected
by an alleged chronic nuisance property may provide a sworn complaint to the
Police Chief or a Code Enforcement Officer that may be used by the Chief of
Police or Code Enforcement Officer in their enforcement of this section.
   (E)   Commencement of actions; remedies; burden of proof.
      (1)   In the event a citation is issued for a chronic nuisance property,
the person in charge shall have those rights and shall otherwise be subject to
the procedures and provisions set forth in
Ch. 91 of the municipal code. The Code Enforcement Officer shall also cause the
citation to be served on any tenants of the nuisance property by posting the
citation on the door of the unit. Tenants shall have the same hearing rights
provided in this chapter to the person in charge. If the Hearing Board
determines that the property is a chronic nuisance property, then it shall
issue such fine and/or take such other action consistent with the provisions of
Ch. 91 of the municipal code.
      (2)   In addition, whenever the Hearing Board, determines that a chronic
nuisance exists, the Board shall forward such determination to the Mayor of the
city. Based on such determination, the Mayor may suspend or revoke the
occupational license of any person conducting any business upon the property
where the chronic nuisance exists.
   (F)   Summary closure. The city, through its City Attorney, may also
initiate a summary closure proceeding in the Kenton County District and/or
Circuit Court. Such an action shall be based on evidence showing that nuisance
activities exist or have occurred on the property and that action is necessary
to avoid a threat to the health, safety, or public welfare. Proceedings to
obtain an order of summary closure shall be governed by the provisions of
applicable Kentucky law for obtaining restraining orders. In the event of
summary closure, the city is not required to comply with the notification
procedures set forth in division (C)(1)(c)1. of this section. As part of any
summary closure order, the District/Circuit Court may also revoke or suspend
the occupational license of any person conducting any business upon the
property where the chronic nuisance exists.
(Ord. 6, 2014, passed 5-14-2014; Ord. 2-2016, passed 1-11-2016; Ord. 23, 2016,
passed 12-12-2016; Ord. 15, 2017, passed 6-26-2017)
COMPOST AND YARD WASTE
§ 91.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPOST PILE. A place in which composing occurs, which may or may not be
enclosed or otherwise confined.
   COMPOSTING. The biological decomposition of organic materials to produce a
stable, inert material that may be incorporated into the soil without producing
any adverse impact to the soil or the public health.
   DWELLING. A residential structure and includes the deck or patio appurtenant
thereto.
   FRONT YARD. The same as defined in Section Seven of the Park Hills Zoning
Ordinance.
   OFFENSIVE ODOR. The smell which causes a reasonable annoyance to a person or
persons for a period of at least three consecutive days.
   YARD WASTE. The residue or clippings gathered from lawns, shrubs, trees,
gardens, and other such vegetation.
(2010 Code, § 92A.01)
§ 91.46 OWNERS DUTY TO MAINTAIN COMPOST AND YARD WASTE.
   (A)   No person shall create or maintain a compost/yard waste pile in such a
manner that it:
      (1)   Becomes a place of harborage, breeding, or infestation for insects,
rodents, or other vermin;
      (2)   Produces offensive or noxious odors that may be detected from off
the premises;
      (3)   Causes any form of surface or ground water pollution or attracts
animals;
      (4)   Is located within the limits of a front yard;
      (5)   Creates a health, safety, or fire hazard; or
      (6)   Is located closer than 25 feet of the dwelling of another.
   (B)   All compost/yard waste piles shall be enclosed within a privacy fence
or hedge sufficient in height and density to screen said pile from the view of
one standing on any adjoining property at ground level.
(2010 Code, § 92A.02) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.47 IMPROPERLY MAINTAINED COMPOST AND YARD WASTE PILES; NUISANCE.
   Any compost/yard waste pile or operation that creates any condition as
specified in §
91.46 shall be considered improperly maintained and injuriously affecting the
public health, safety, and welfare, and is hereby declared a nuisance.
(2010 Code, § 92A.03) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.48 NOTICE TO REMOVE OR OTHERWISE CORRECT.
   Upon being made aware of an improperly maintained compost/yard waste pile,
the Building Inspector shall cause written notification to be served on the
owner, lessee, agent, tenant, or person having authority over such land,
requiring its removal or correction.
(2010 Code, § 92A.04)
§ 91.49 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Such notice may be hand delivered to the owner, lessee, agent, tenant, or
person having authority over such land, or may be sent by certified mail,
return receipt requested, or by any other method considered legal service of a
summons in civil actions.
(2010 Code, § 92A.05)
§ 91.50 CONTENTS OF NOTICE.
   Such notice shall identify the violation, the location of same, and shall
prescribe the time allowed to correct the violation. Such time shall be
reasonable but shall not be less than ten days from the receipt of the notice.
(2010 Code, § 92A.06)
§ 91.51 FAILURE TO REMOVE OR CORRECT.
   Upon failure of the owner, lessee, agent, tenant, or person having authority
over such land to comply with the notice to remove or otherwise correct the
violation within the time therein specified, the Building Inspector shall cause
the removal of the compost/yard waste pile and may employ the necessary labor
to perform such task, or, file a complaint in the County District Court, and
upon a finding by the Court that a violation of this subchapter exists as
alleged in the complaint, the Court shall enter an order of abatement against
the owner, lessee, agent, tenant, or person having authority over such land.
(2010 Code, § 92A.07) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.52 OWNER TO BE BILLED; CERTIFICATION TO CITY CLERK/TREASURER.
   Upon completion of the removal of the compost/yard waste pile by the city,
the property owner shall be billed for all costs incurred and shall be given 30
days to pay the same. In the event that the bill is not paid within 30 days,
then such amounts shall be certified to the City Clerk/Treasurer for collection
of same as other taxes and assessments are collected.
(2010 Code, § 92A.08)
NON-SMOKING POLICY
§ 91.65 SMOKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Smoking areas prohibited; exceptions. Smoking of any tobacco products
are hereby prohibited in any part of any buildings owned or maintained by the
city except in the following areas or buildings:
      (1)   Fire Department squad room;
      (2)   Fire Department locker room;
      (3)   Fire Department garage bays;
      (4)   Rescue Squad Building; and
      (5)   Public Works Building.
   (B)   Exceptions inapplicable. The aforementioned exemptions shall not apply
when those areas are being used for public gatherings or meetings.
(2010 Code, § 99.02) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   The following penalties shall apply to violations of this chapter:
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter shall be subject to a civil fine of not less than $50 per day per
violation but not more than $500 per day per violation, or the cost to the city
to abate the public nuisance, or both. Each day that a violation of this
chapter continues after due notice has been served in accordance with the terms
of this chapter may be deemed a separate offense to a maximum of $10,000 per
citation.
   (B)   As an additional alternative remedy to the above penalty, any violator
who violates any provision of this chapter and has been previously issued two
or more citations for violation of this chapter relating to the same property
within a 12-month period may be assessed additional civil penalties of $500 per
day per violation to a maximum of $20,000 per citation.
(Ord. 15, 2017, passed 6-26-2017)
CHAPTER 92: FIREARMS AND OTHER WEAPONS
Section
Discharge of Firearms
   
92.01   Prohibition against discharge of firearms
   
92.02   Building rifle ranges or pistol ranges
   
92.03   Prohibition against hunting within the city
Bows and Arrows
   
92.15   Definition
   
92.16   Prohibitions; risk of danger or injury
 
   
92.99   Penalty
DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS
§ 92.01 PROHIBITION AGAINST DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm, or corporation to shoot
or discharge firearms, air guns, or sling shots within the confines of the
city, except upon an approved rifle or pistol range.
(2010 Code, § 93.01) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 BUILDING RIFLE RANGES OR PISTOL RANGES.
   Any person, persons, firm, or corporation desiring to erect or construct a
rifle or pistol range within the confines of the city shall apply to the City
Council for permission thereof and submit therewith plans and specifications
therefor, and which said rifle or pistol range, when erected, shall be subject
to the inspection and approval of the City Council before the same shall be
used.
(2010 Code, § 93.02)
§ 92.03 PROHIBITION AGAINST HUNTING WITHIN THE CITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm, or corporation to hunt
or shoot game or birds or other animals within the confines of the city.
(2010 Code, § 93.03) Penalty, see §
92.99
BOWS AND ARROWS
§ 92.15 DEFINITION.
   As used this subchapter, the term PERSON means any natural person, company,
corporation, partnership, unincorporated association, joint venture, or any
combination thereof.
(2010 Code, § 94.01)
§ 92.16 PROHIBITIONS; RISK OF DANGER OR INJURY.
   Except when necessary for the protection of person or property, no person
shall cause or permit the discharge of any arrow from a bow in the city in any
manner which creates a substantial danger of physical injury to any person or
property, including animals.
(2010 Code, § 94.02) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, persons, firm, or corporation found guilty of the
violation of the terms of §§
92.01 through
92.03 shall be fined in a sum from $10 to $25 for each violation thereof.
(2010 Code, § 93.04)
   (C)   Any person who violates any of the terms or provisions of §§
92.15 or
92.16 shall, upon conviction thereof in a court of competent jurisdiction, be
fined not less than $10 nor more than $100.
(2010 Code, § 94.03)
CHAPTER 93: ASSEMBLIES
Section
Parades
   
93.01   Application for permit
   
93.02   Requirements for application for permit
   
93.03   City Council review
Picketing
   
93.15   Interference with traffic prohibited
   
93.16   Number of persons restricted
 
   
93.99   Penalty
PARADES
§ 93.01 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   When any person or persons want to conduct a parade or demonstration in the
city for any purpose, which parade or demonstration consists of three or more
people, said person or persons must first petition the City Council at the
regular meeting night held on the second Monday of every month at 7:30 p.m.
EST, at the City Building, for a written permit for said parade or
demonstration.
(2010 Code, § 95.01)
§ 93.02 REQUIREMENTS FOR APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   The petitioner(s) for a permit required by §
93.01 shall indicate in writing the time and place of the event, the number of
persons involved, the purpose of the event, and the number and amount of
instruments, vehicles, floats, and all other paraphernalia to be used in said
event.
(2010 Code, § 95.02)
§ 93.03 CITY COUNCIL REVIEW.
   City Council may consider the petition described in §
93.01 at the meeting at which it is received, and no later than the next
regularly scheduled meeting following the receipt of the said petition for
permit for said parade or demonstration, and if City Council finds that said
event is not a violation of existing ordinances and statutes governing the
health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the city or nonresidents who
would become involved therein, and if said event as described by the petitioner
(s) does not or would tend not to cause a breach of the peace or disorderly
conduct, then the City Council by a majority vote may issue a permit for same
to be held at a specific place at a specific time and direct the length of time
such event may not exceed.
(2010 Code, § 95.03) Penalty, see §
93.99
PICKETING
§ 93.15 INTERFERENCE WITH TRAFFIC PROHIBITED.
   In any labor dispute in the city wherein any establishment, business, or
other place is picketed by strikers, said pickets shall at no time interfere
with the traffic on any street by walking or standing upon said street, but
shall confine their picketing to property other than the public street at the
establishment or place in the said labor dispute.
(2010 Code, § 96.01) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.16 NUMBER OF PERSONS RESTRICTED.
   Picketing shall be limited to peaceful picketing and the strikers or
pickets, their agents and associates, and shall be limited in number to two
pickets per outside entrance way that abuts on or is adjacent to a public
street, way, sidewalk, or alley.
(2010 Code, § 96.02)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person or persons who violate any provision of §§
93.01 through
93.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to punishment by a fine of not more than $100 or by imprisonment for a
period of not more than 30 days, or by both fine and imprisonment, in the
discretion of the court.
(2010 Code, § 95.04)
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
93.15 or
93.16 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to punishment by a fine of not more than $100 or by imprisonment for a
period of not more than 30 days, or by both fine and imprisonment, in the
discretion of the court.
(2010 Code, § 96.03)
CHAPTER 94: POLITICAL ADVERTISING SIGNS
Section
   
94.01   Regulations for placement of signs
   
94.02   Regulations for removal of signs
   
94.03   Property owner and candidate responsible
   
94.04   Size regulation for signs
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 REGULATIONS FOR PLACEMENT OF SIGNS.
   (A)   Temporary yard signs associated with campaigns, candidates, causes, or
other similar advertising or promotion may be placed only within the boundaries
of private property and not upon the public right-of-way or any public
property.
   (B)   Yard signs as identified above may be placed and/or erected only in
accordance with the general sign ordinance of the city.
   (C)   Yard signs may be placed or erected not earlier than 45 days prior to
the date for which the information upon the sign is directed.
   (D)   (1)   In the event a yard sign is placed and/or erected on behalf of a
candidate, slate of candidates, or cause or event associated with an election,
such sign shall not be placed or erected earlier than 45 days prior to a
primary election where the candidate, slate of candidates, cause or issue, or
its opposition, appears upon the primary election ballot.
      (2)   In the event the candidate, slate of candidates, cause or issue, or
its opposition does not appear upon a primary election ballot, then a yard sign
directed at that candidate, slate of candidates, cause or issue, or its
opposition, shall not be erected earlier than 45 days prior to the general or
special election at which time that candidate, slate of candidates, issue or
cause, or its opposition, appears for vote.
(2010 Code, § 98.01) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 REGULATIONS FOR REMOVAL OF SIGNS.
   All yard signs shall be removed within three days after the election prior
to which it was erected or placed.
(2010 Code, § 98.02) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 PROPERTY OWNER AND CANDIDATE RESPONSIBLE.
   It shall be the duty of the property owner, the person in possession of the
property, and the person whose name appears upon the sign placed or erected to
secure compliance with this chapter.
(2010 Code, § 98.03)
§ 94.04 SIZE REGULATION FOR SIGNS.
   (A)   The maximum size of any yard sign shall be 12 square feet.
   (B)   The maximum height of any yard sign shall be five feet as measured
from the ground to the top of the yard sign.
   (C)   No yard sign shall be installed or erected on private property less
than the greater of:
      (1)   Five feet behind the back of a sidewalk; or
      (2)   Fifteen feet from the edge of road pavement.
   (D)   The minimum distance that any yard sign may be installed or erected
from any property line is ten feet.
   (E)   No yard sign shall obstruct the view of either pedestrians or
operators of motor vehicles at any intersection.
   (F)   The maximum number of signs per property per candidate, slate of
candidates, cause or issue, or its opposition, is one.
   (G)   Before any yard sign is erected or installed upon any vacant real
property, the owner of said property shall file with the City Clerk/Treasurer
written permission for the erection or installation of yard signs.
(2010 Code, § 98.04) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   For violation of this chapter, there shall be a civil penalty of $10 per day
for each yard sign and each day the violation of this chapter occurs. This
penalty may be assessed separately against each person responsible for the
violation as provided in §
94.03.
(2010 Code, § 98.05)
CHAPTER 95: BUSINESS TRANSACTIONS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Encroachments on or in the public rights-of-way prohibited
   
95.03   Merchandise display
   
95.04   Newsracks
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BENCH. A seat or seats located on or along any public right-of-way for the
accommodation of persons awaiting transportation or for other purposes. This
definition includes BENCHES that may or may not have advertising located
anywhere on their exterior.
   CLERK/TREASURER. The individual holding the office of City Clerk/Treasurer
at §
30.036.
   CODE. The Code of Ordinances of the city, as may be amended from time to
time.
   MODULAR NEWSRACK. A NEWSRACK that is designated with multiple separate
enclosed compartments able to accommodate the display, sale, or distribution of
multiple distinct and separate newspapers, which exceeds the dimensions of an
individual newsrack.
   NEWSPAPER. A publication of general circulation printed and distributed
either daily or weekly that contains news, current events, features,
advertising or information of interest to the general public, often distributed
through the use of newsracks.
   NEWSRACK. Any type of unmanned device for the vending or free distribution
of newspapers, periodicals, or printed materials of any nature.
   PLANTER. A container for plants, trees, bushes, or other vegetation.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. All areas deeded to the public, or dedicated to the
public by formal dedication or by operation of law that are legally open to
public use, such as public streets, sidewalks, roadways, highways, parkways,
alleys, and parks, as well as areas surrounding and immediately adjacent to
public buildings, and the airspace above them.
   SHELTER. An enclosed or semi-enclosed structure, with or without seats,
located on any public right-of-way for the accommodation of persons awaiting
transportation or for other purposes.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any machine that dispenses a product to the general public,
including, but not limited to soft drink vending machines, cigar or cigarette
vending machines, food vending machines, and coffee or other hot drink vending
machines, but excluding newsrack vending machines.
(Ord. 4, 2012, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 95.02 ENCROACHMENTS ON OR IN THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   General prohibition against public right-of-way encroachments. No
encroachment shall be allowed on or in any public right-of-way unless otherwise
provided in this chapter or elsewhere in this chapter.
   (B)   Noncompliance. The Clerk/Treasurer shall inform an offending person or
entity in writing by ordinary mail at his, her, or its last known business or
home address, that the offender has ten calendar days from the date of the
notice to remove the encroachment from the right-of-way. If the encroachment is
not removed within the ten calendar days, then the city shall have the right to
remove the encroachment at the violator’s cost without further notice.
   (C)   Exceptions. The following exceptions to the general prohibition in
division (A) above shall be allowed, subject to the condition that the item(s)
placed on or in a right-of-way do not create safety hazards by blocking
reasonable access to or passage through a right-of-way or egress and ingress to
an adjoining entrance way, or by obstructing vehicular traffic or traffic
signal sight lines:
      (1)   Sandwich board advertising abutting a licensed business, as
permitted by this chapter;
      (2)   Planters or landscaping items;
      (3)   Set-outs of merchandise or other related items in the right-of-way
of the abutting business establishment during that business’ regular operating
hours, as set forth in §
95.03, unless otherwise prohibited by this chapter;
      (4)    Any property placed in the right-of-way by a governmental or
quasi-governmental agency or body, including, but not limited to traffic
control and directional signs and devices, fire hydrants, emergency call boxes,
United States Postal Service mail receptacles or boxes, telephones, electrical
and light poles, public transportation shelters, benches, and identifying signs
as required or permitted by law, and street identification signs;
      (5)   Temporary signage promoting parades, festivals, concerts, or other
special events that are open to the public, subject to the condition that the
event has been issued a valid permit by the City Council under §§
93.01 through
93.03 or other applicable law. Temporary signage must be removed within seven
calendar days following the conclusion of the event;
      (6)   Temporary scaffolding or other materials related to exterior
building renovation or construction, subject to the conditions within this
chapter requiring a permit prior to proceeding with said renovation or
construction; or
      (7)   Any encroachment otherwise allowed in this chapter.
(Ord. 4, 2012, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 95.03 MERCHANDISE DISPLAY.
   (A)   Only new merchandise for sale, including plants and gardening
materials, may be displayed.
   (B)   Displays are limited to the area directly in front of a commercial
establishment offering the items for sale.
   (C)   Displays may not be located within six feet of the edge of the
sidewalk nearest the curb, and shall allow for six feet of clear width on the
sidewalk.
   (D)   Displays shall not block ingress or egress to any entrances or exits
of adjoining buildings or properties.
   (E)   Merchandise may not be displayed more than one-half hour prior to
opening of the business and must be removed within one-half hour after closing
the business each day.
   (F)   No such displays shall engage the use of electricity, nor shall such
displays be animated or use lights or noise-making devices.
(Ord. 4, 2012, passed 3-12-2012) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 NEWSRACKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, affix, erect, construct,
or maintain a newsrack upon any right-of-way without having obtained written
permission for the placement and location from the Clerk/Treasurer in
accordance with this section.
      (1)   An applicant shall submit a written request for placement of a
newsrack to the Clerk/Treasurer with the following information:
         (a)   The name, address, telephone number, and email address of the
person or entity responsible for the newsrack;
         (b)   The name, address, telephone number, and email address of the
person who the Clerk/Treasurer should notify or contact at any time concerning
the permittee’s newsrack;
         (c)   The number, location, position, and installation method of the
newsrack shown on a reasonably-scaled map, drawing, or aerial photograph;
         (d)   The names of the publications to be contained within each
newsrack, frequency of distribution, and re-stocking schedule; and
         (e)   A description and the dimensions of the newsrack.
      (2)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall issue a written decision to an applicant
within 14 days of the submission of the written request containing the
information set forth in division (A)(1) above.
      (3)   Any denial or adverse decision regarding an applicant’s proposed
placement of a newsrack in the right-of-way may be reviewed de novo to the City
Code Enforcement Board within 30 days of the denial or adverse decision. An
adverse decision of the Code Enforcement Board may be reviewed de novo to the
County District Court within 30 days of the issuance of the Board’s final
order.
   (B)   Newsracks shall have the following dimensions.
      (1)   The height shall not exceed 6o inches off the ground.
      (2)   The width, measured at the widest point, shall not exceed 25
inches.
      (3)   The depth, measured at the widest point, shall not exceed 25
inches.
   (C)   Newsracks may not be bolted or permanently affixed to any public
sidewalk or improved right-of-way unless such installation is approved by the
Clerk/Treasurer or his or her designee. If approved, installation shall be in a
manner that conforms with the requirements of this section, and to ensure
minimal damage to the right-of-way infrastructure.
   (D)   Newsracks that are not bolted or permanently attached to any public
sidewalk or right-of-way shall be secured by a weighted base or pedestal to
prevent the newsrack from being tipped over or upset by the elements or contact
with pedestrians.
   (E)   Newsracks shall not be chained or otherwise attached to any tree,
bench, signpost, shelter, or any other fixture.
   (F)   Each newsrack shall be regularly maintained by its owner in a
reasonable, clean, neat, and attractive condition, and be in good repair and
operation at all times so that:
      (1)   It is kept free from graffiti;
      (2)   It is kept free of chipped, faded, peeling, or cracked paint in its
visible painted areas;
      (3)   It is kept free of rust and corrosion in the visible unpainted
metal areas thereof;
      (4)   The clear glass or plastic parts thereof, if any, through which the
printed material being dispensed are not broken and are kept free of tears,
peeling, or fading; and
      (5)   The structural parts of the newsrack operate, and are not broken or
unduly misshapen.
   (G)   In the event that an owner shall remove the newsrack and any mounting
attachment, the owner shall restore the location to a safe condition, leaving
no defect or projection in the pavement. The owner shall notify the Clerk/
Treasurer in writing of the newsrack’s removal within seven days after
completing the removal.
   (H)   Any newsrack that is abandoned or fails to comply with any of the
requirements set forth in this section may be removed by the city after sending
a seven-day written notice to the owner by ordinary mail at the address
specified by division (A)(1) above that the newsrack is deemed abandoned or not
in compliance with this section. A newsrack will be deemed abandoned when it
does not provide the newspaper specified therefor for more than seven
consecutive days for a daily publication, or 14 consecutive days for a weekly
publication or other magazine or informational material.
   (I)   Newsracks shall be placed in locations that do not obstruct or
interfere with ingress or egress bv abutting properties and that do not impede
or endanger pedestrians or vehicular traffic.
   (J)   Newsracks shall not be placed:
      (1)   Upon a public right-of-way in a manner that blocks ingress or
egress to a building or readily identifiable or marked bus stop loading zone or
other loading zone, or handicapped parking space;
      (2)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (3)   Within two feet of a parking meter, mail box, bench, light post,
planter, or tree grates;
      (4)   On any portion of a tree grate, manhole cover, meter or valve box
cover, or vent cover for underground utilities;
      (5)   At any location whereby the clear space on the public sidewalk for
passageway of pedestrians is reduced to less than four feet; or
      (6)   In such a manner where the door of the newsrack opens beyond the
edge of a street curb.
   (K)   Modular newsracks are prohibited.
   (L)   As a condition to receiving the written permission described in
division (A) above, the newsrack permittee shall release and indemnify, defend,
and save harmless the city, its officers, elected officers, agents,
contractors, and employees from and against all claims, actions, demands,
judgments, costs, expenses, and damages of every kind and nature incurred by or
incurring to any person whatsoever predicated upon injury to or death of any
person, or loss of or damage to property, public or private, or whatever
ownership or damages to business, arising out of or connected directly or
indirectly with the exercise of any right or privilege granted by any written
permission issued under this section.
(Ord. 4, 2012, passed 3-12-2012) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of any provision of this chapter is classified as a
civil offense.
   (B)   The City Code Enforcement Board shall have the power and authority to
issue remedial orders and impose civil fines to enforce this chapter.
Enforcement of this chapter shall be in accordance with the procedures set
forth within city Ordinance No. 14, 2007. Civil fines for violations of this
chapter shall be those set forth at section VIII of the city Ordinance No. 14,
2007. The city shall possess a lien on property, real or personal, for all
fines, penalties, charges, costs, and attorney’s fees associated with enforcing
this chapter, and the cost of placing a lien on personal or real property. The
lien shall be superior to and have priority over all other liens filed
subsequently, except state, county, school district, city ad valorem taxes, and
trash fees.
(Ord. 4, 2012, passed 3-12-2012)
CHAPTER 96: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   General prohibition
   
96.03   Residential impact
   
96.04   Amplified sound
   
96.05   Automobile safety devices
   
96.06   Motor vehicles/motorcycles
   
96.07   Amplification devices in motor vehicles
   
96.08   Amplification devices in public places
   
96.09   Animals
   
96.10   Use of sound level meter
   
96.11   Exemptions
   
96.12   Permit requirement
   
96.13   Enforcement
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOUD, UNREASONABLE OR EXCESSIVE NOISE. Noise measured in excess of 85 dBa
(decibels), as measured within 100 feet of the source of the noise or from the
nearest property line from its origination, either being projected outside of
any building or structure or out of doors.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation (for profit or non-profit), limited
liability company, partnership, joint venture or any other business entity,
charitable or social association.
   SOUND AMPLIFICATION DEVICE. Any instrumentality, device or apparatus for the
amplification of sounds from any radio, television, stereo, phonograph, record
player, tape player, cassette player, compact disc player or other electronic
device; any band, musical group or orchestration; any drum, synthesizer or
musical instrument(s); or, any car alarm. SOUND AMPLIFICATION shall also mean
any other sound making or sound producing device or attachment, including any
apparatus for the amplification of the human voice.
(Ord. 10, 2021, passed 8-23-2021)
§ 96.02 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   No person shall make or cause to make any loud, unreasonable or excessive
noise in the city, by whatever means or from whatever source such may emanate,
such constituting a disturbance of the peace.
(Ord. 10, 2021, passed 8-23-2021) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03 RESIDENTIAL IMPACT.
   It shall be unlawful to carry out the following activities within the city
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., current local time, during any
day of the week.
   (A)   Operate refuse collection machinery or loaders, unless otherwise set
forth in any refuse collection contract with the city;
   (B)   Operate construction machinery for the erection, demolition,
excavation, alteration or repair of any building, structure, roadway or parking
lot unless otherwise permitted by the city, excepting public utility repairs
during emergencies;
   (C)   Operate or use any sound amplification device;
   (D)   Operate industrial machinery;
   (E)   Operate lawn mowers and other gardening or domestic related tools or
machinery out of doors;
   (F)   The ignition of fireworks or any explosive device.
(Ord. 10, 2021, passed 8-23-2021) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 AMPLIFIED SOUND.
   It shall be unlawful to operate at any time any sound amplification device
or similar equipment, including musical instruments, so as to create noise
which is plainly audible at a distance of 100 feet from the source by a person
of normal hearing.
(Ord. 10, 2021, passed 8-23-2021) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 AUTOMOBILE SAFETY DEVICES.
   The use of any device whose purpose is to protect an owner's motorized
vehicle through the mechanical creation of a warning or alert noise of
sufficient magnitude to be plainly audible at a distance of 100 feet from its
source which does not automatically terminate within five minutes of its
activation, shall be unlawful.
(Ord. 10, 2021, passed 8-23-2021) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.06 MOTOR VEHICLES/MOTORCYCLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle
in the city which has its muffler or exhaust equipment removed, altered or
maintained in such a condition as to create loud, unreasonable or excessive
noise which is disturbing to the neighborhood. It shall also be unlawful to
spin tires, race engine or undertake "jackrabbit" starts which would create
loud, unreasonable or excessive noise.
(Ord. 10, 2021, passed 8-23-2021) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.07 AMPLIFICATION DEVICES IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a sound amplification device
or similar equipment which causes loud, unreasonable or excessive noise in or
on a motor vehicle while it is either moving or standing within any public
rights-of-way of the city.
(Ord. 10, 2021, passed 8-23-2021) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.08 AMPLIFICATION DEVICES IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a sound amplification device
or similar equipment which may cause loud, unreasonable or excessive noise on a
public right-of-way or upon or within any public place within the city.
(Ord. 10, 2021, passed 8-23-2021) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.09 ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, possess or harbor any dog
or other animal or bird which, by frequent or habitual howling, yelping or
barking, causes loud, unreasonable or excessive noise which produces an
annoying disturbance to any person or neighborhood.
(Ord. 10, 2021, passed 8-23-2021) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.10 USE OF SOUND LEVEL METER.
   Any properly calibrated sound level meter or device complying with the
provisions of the American National Standards Institute's specifications for
sound level meters may be utilized to determine and verify the sound level in
decibels for the purposes set forth herein.
(Ord. 10, 2021, passed 8-23-2021)
§ 96.11 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exempted from the provisions hereof and shall not
constitute loud or excessive noise:
   (A)   Noise from law enforcement vehicles;
   (B)   Noise from fire and emergency vehicles;
   (C)   Noise made where such person has received and maintains a valid permit
from the city;
   (D)   Noise emanating from premises located within the Institutional Zone of
the city.
(Ord. 10, 2021, passed 8-23-2021)
§ 96.12 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   In the event any person desires to utilize any sound amplification device
for additional amplification (by way of example, but not limited to, concerts,
parades, etc.) or to operate such devices within the restricted hours of
operation, such person shall be required to first obtain a permit issued by the
city permitting the same to occur. Applications for such permit shall be made
on a form provided by the city and submitted to, reviewed and approved by the
City Police Department or Mayor and shall set forth the time duration,
location, manner, conditions and additional sound level restrictions on the use
of any sound amplification device so granted or approved in addition to the
payment of any requisite fee, if assessed.
(Ord. 10, 2021, passed 8-23-2021)
§ 96.13 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions hereof may be enforced by any police officer or code
enforcement officer employed or contracted to enforce the same on behalf of the
city.
(Ord. 10, 2021, passed 8-23-2021)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions hereof shall, upon
citation, be subject to a civil fine of $100 for the first violation which
shall increase by $100 for each subsequent violation thereof not to exceed a
maximum of $500.
(Ord. 10, 2021, passed 8-23-2021)
CHAPTER 97: COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION
Section
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   Permit required
   
97.03   Application for permit
   
97.04   Standards for investigation; issuance
   
97.05   Fees
   
97.06   Display or permit required
   
97.07   Appeal procedure
   
97.08   Revocation standards and procedure
   
97.09   Requirements for bona fide nonprofit organization
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the content clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a business of selling goods within the city, temporarily, and who,
in the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or
any place within the city.
   PEDDLER. Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale, or making sales, or making deliveries: or any person who,
without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for sale from any
public place within the city.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a solicitor is not
a peddler.
(Ord. 7, 2014, passed - -2014)
§ 97.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor wishing
to engage in such activity, within the corporate limits of the city shall first
obtain a permit from the city. No permit issued under the terms and conditions
of this chapter shall be transferable. Permits issued under this chapter shall
be valid for the time period specified thereon. Under no circumstances shall
the permit be valid after December 31 of the year of its issuance. Re-
application shall be required upon expiration of said permit if the applicant
wishes to continue such activity.
   (B)   Solicitation within the city shall be permitted from 9:00 a.m. to 7:00
p.m., Daylight Savings Time, and from 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. when there is not
Daylight Savings Time.
(Ord. 7, 2014, passed - -2014) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.03 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person, sole proprietorship, partnership, or corporation desiring to act
as an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor and any individual desiring to
act as an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor on behalf of a sole
proprietorship, partnership, or corporation, shall submit a completed
application form to the Chief of Police. Said application forms can be obtained
at the Police Department. The application form shall be signed by the applicant
if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the president if a
corporation. The completed application form shall include at least the
following information:
   (A)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant.
   (B)   The name of the individual having management or supervisory authority
of the applicant's business during the time it is to occur in the city:
      (1)   The local address and telephone number of such individual;
      (2)   The permanent address and telephone number of such individual;
      (3)   The capacity in which such individual will act.
   (C)   The name, address and telephone number of the person, if any, for
whose purpose the business will be carried on, and if a corporation, the state
of corporation.
   (D)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on the
applicant's business.
   (E)   The nature and quality of the goods or sendees to be offered for sale
or delivered. If goods, their invoice value and where and by whom such goods
are manufactured or grown;
   (F)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business and
samples of same when applicable.
   (G)   Whether the individuals identified in §
97.02 or divisions (A), (B), or (C) of this section have ever been convicted of
any crime and, if so, the nature of each offense and the penalty assessed for
each offense.
   (H)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its license number.
(Ord. 7, 2014, passed - -2014) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.04 STANDARDS FOR INVESTIGATION; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the application, the Chief of Police shall cause a set
of the applicant's fingerprints and a picture taken of the applicant to be
attached to the application. Additionally, the Chief of Police shall also cause
an investigation of the applicant's business reputation and moral character to
be made. If the investigation discloses tangible evidence that the conduct of
the applicant or the applicant's business would pose a threat to the public
health, safety, morals, or general welfare, then the application may be denied.
For the purposes of this section, tangible evidence shall be defined as:
      (1)   The applicant has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   The applicant has made willful misstatements on the application;
      (3)   The applicant has committed prior violations of ordinances
pertaining to itinerant merchants, peddlers and solicitors;
      (4)   The applicant has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   The applicant has a record of continual breaches of solicited
contracts;
      (6)   The applicant has unsatisfactory moral character.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall approve the application if the investigation
does not uncover tangible evidence of a threat to the public health, safety,
morals, or general welfare of the public. Said investigation shall be completed
no later than the conclusion of the third business day after filing the
application. The Chief of Police shall then notify the applicant by certified
mail as to whether the application is approved or denied. If denied, the letter
shall indicate the reasons for the denial.
(Ord. 7, 2014, passed - -2014)
§ 97.05 FEES.
   Any person acting as an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall,
upon approval of their application, be required to obtain an occupational
license from the City Licensing Agent and pay a fee of $25 per day, per
employee, or $150 per year, per employee.
(Ord. 7, 2014, passed - -2014) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.06 DISPLAY OR PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any permit issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall be
conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more than one
location within the city is used to conduct business, separate licenses must be
obtained for each location.
   (B)   Any solicitor going door-to-door shall show the permit on her
outermost garment above the waist.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall issue a permit to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter. The permit shall contain the-words “Licensed
Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor”, the expiration date of the license, and the
number of the license. The permit shall be maintained on the licensee during
such time as the individual is engaged in the business activity so licensed.
(Ord. 7, 2014, passed - -2014) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE
   Any person aggrieved by a decision made pursuant to the requirements herein
contained shall have the right to appeal to the Board of Council. The appeal
shall be filed with the legislative body within 14 days after receipt of the
decision of the Chief of Police. The Board of Council shall conduct the hearing
of appeal within 14 days after receipt of notification of appeal.
(Ord. 7, 2014, passed - -2014)
§ 97.08 REVOCATION STANDARDS AND PROCEDURE.
   Any permit granted under this chapter may be immediately revoked by the
Chief of Police pursuant to the standards set forth in this section. The Chief
of Police may cause the revocation of a permit granted under this chapter for
any of the following reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the permit application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the permit;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or any misdemeanor involving
moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
(Ord. 7, 2014, passed - -2014)
§ 97.09 REQUIREMENTS FOR BONA FIDE NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Bona fide nonprofit organizations shall be exempt from the
requirements set forth in this chapter. When any bona fide nonprofit
organization desires to engage in solicitation of funds, donations or gifts, or
the selling or giving away of any evidences-certificates or tickets for any
prizes, drawings or other interests in any awards whatsoever, written
application shall be made to the Chief of Police. Said written application
shall set forth the kind and type of solicitation to be made, the purpose or
purposes for which the proceeds will be used, the date, time and place said
solicitation is intended to be made, and same shall be signed by a duly
authorized representative of the bona fide nonprofit organization.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the written request to engage in solicitation, the
Chief of Police shall cause an investigation to be made concerning the
nonprofit organization and the purpose for which the funds are to be used. The
investigation shall be completed no later than the conclusion of the third
business day after filing the application. The Chief of Police shall then
notify the applicant by certified mail as to whether the request is approved or
denied. No fee shall be required for a bona fide nonprofit organization to
engage in such activity.
   (C)   No more than two nonprofit organizations shall be permitted to
simultaneously engage in solicitation of any kind in the same geographic area
as defined by the city plat record index sheet.
(Ord. 7, 2014, passed - -2014) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall upon conviction
be fined not less than $50 nor more than $250. Each day of violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 7, 2014, passed - -2014)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING AND TAXES
      
111.   CONSUMER PROTECTION
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
113.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
      
114.   SALE OF FIREWORKS
      
115.   FRANCHISE FEES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING AND TAXES
Section
Occupational and Payroll Licenses, Regulations, Taxes, and Fees
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Purpose
   
110.03   Business regulations
   
110.04   Business and payroll taxation; license fee
   
110.05   Collection
City Payroll Fees
   
110.20   Definitions
   
110.21   Amount of license fee
   
110.22   Alternate computation of fee for work outside the city
   
110.23   Employers to obtain license and to withhold license fee and file
returns
   
110.24   Employee shall file if employer fails to do so
   
110.25   Duties of License Inspector
   
110.26   Investigative powers of License Inspector
   
110.27   Regulations promulgated by License Inspector
   
110.28   Confidential information
   
110.29   Interest
   
110.30   Use of license fee
   
110.31   Exempted activities
   
110.32   Liability for tax assessed against subcontractors
Special Occupational Regulations, Taxes, and Fees
   
110.45   Regulation and licensing of solicitors and canvassers
   
110.46   Regulation and registration of charitable solicitors
   
110.47   Regulation of home occupations
 
   
110.99   Penalty
OCCUPATIONAL AND PAYROLL LICENSES, REGULATIONS, TAXES, AND FEES
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANYBODY. Any human being, and any combination thereof, in the form of
proprietorship, partnership, corporation, company, firm, business, joint
venture, unincorporated association, or otherwise.
   APPLICABLE LAWS. The constitutions, statutes, ordinances, rules,
regulations, and other laws of the United States, the commonwealth, the county,
the city, and any other governmental entity or agency having jurisdiction.
   BUSINESS. Any and all franchises, trades, occupations, professions, or other
businesses within the meaning and context of KRS 92.280, KRS 92.281, and § 181
of the Kentucky Constitution.
   BUSINESS REGULATORY LICENSE. A license required by the city, pursuant to the
police power thereof, for the purpose of regulating business activities and
operations within the city.
   BUSINESS REGULATORY LICENSE FEE. A fee required by the city for each
business regulatory license, pursuant to KRS 82.082 and the police power
thereof, to provide the funds necessary to pay the expenses of regulating
business activities and operations within the city, including, without
limitation, the expense of issuing business regulatory licenses.
   CITY. The City of Park Hills, Kentucky, a municipal corporation and city of
the home rule class, whose offices are presently located at 1106 Amsterdam
Road, Park Hills, Kentucky 41011.
   NOBODY. Not anybody, or no human being, or any combination thereof, in the
form of a proprietorship, partnership, corporation, company, firm, business,
joint venture, unincorporated association, or otherwise.
   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE. A tax for revenue, pursuant to the taxing
authority of the city including, without limitation, the authority therefor
established by KRS 82.082, KRS 92.280, KRS 92.281, and § 181 of the Kentucky
Constitution, wherein it is sometimes identified and referred to as a power to
impose and collect license fees on stock used for breeding purposes, on
franchises, trades, occupations, and professions.
(2010 Code, § 110A.01) (Ord. 2021-16, passed 12-13-2021)
§ 110.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to license, regulate, and tax those
engaged in any labor, work, services, franchises, trades, occupations,
professions, and other businesses within the boundaries of the city.
(2010 Code, § 110A.02)
§ 110.03 BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Requirements. Everybody who is engaged in any franchise, trade,
occupation, profession, or other business in the city, other than those who are
only so engaged as employees, shall obtain an annual business regulatory
license for that franchise, trade, occupation, profession, or other business,
and pay to the city a business regulatory license fee in the amount of either
$50 or that part of a multi-jurisdictional occupational permit fee, collected
by the county and proportionally allocated to the city, pursuant to the
provisions of an inter-local agreement between the city and the county and some
other cities therein, for a single multi-jurisdictional annual occupational
permit fee of $225, which the Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to sign
on behalf of the city.
   (B)   Prohibitions. Nobody, other than those who are only engaged as
employees within the city, shall conspire, cause, permit, promote, allow, aid,
assist, encourage, or engage in any franchise, trade, occupation, profession,
or other business within the city for which the annual business regulatory
license required hereby has not been issued.
   (C)   Form and content of annual business regulatory license and
application.
      (1)   The form and content of the annual business regulatory license
required hereby and the application for it shall be determined by the City
Clerk/Treasurer.
      (2)   However, that the application shall include:
         (a)   Sufficient information for the identification of the individuals
and other persons involved in the franchise, trade, occupation, profession, or
other business;
         (b)   The computation of the annual occupational license fee imposed
by this subchapter;
         (c)   Sufficient information and inspection authorization for a
determination by the city of compliance by the licensee with all applicable
laws;
         (d)   The name in which the business will be conducted, the street
address of the real estate upon which the business will be conducted, the
mailing and street addresses of the business if different from the location,
and the business telephone number and the state tax identification numbers of
the business;
         (e)   The name, residence, address, date of birth, and Social Security
number of each owner of the business and each partner, officer, director, and
member, if any;
         (f)   The name, residence, address, and telephone number of a duly
authorized representative of the business who is responsible for operating and
managing the business in the city, and a nighttime emergency number at which
some responsible representative of the business can be reached in case of an
emergency;
         (g)   A full description of the business operations to be conducted;
         (h)   The date on which the business began or will begin operations in
the city;
         (i)   The accounting period of the business;
         (j)   The number of employees working or expected to be working for
the business in the city during the license year;
         (k)   A statement describing the circumstances of each denial,
suspension, or revocation of any business regulatory license for any individual
or other person named or identified in the application;
         (l)   A statement describing the circumstances of each conviction of
any person named or identified in the application of a felony, misdemeanor for
which imprisonment or other confinement was a possible penalty, any other crime
in which moral turpitude was involved, or any other crime directly related to a
business similar to that which is the subject of the application;
         (m)   A statement as to whether any license, permit, degree,
certification, or similar document is required by any applicable law for the
conduct or employment in the business;
         (n)   A statement as to whether there are any hazardous materials kept
at the business premises and the location thereof, whether there are pets,
guard dogs, or other animals usually kept therein, and any other information
which the applicant believes would be necessary or helpful to emergency
personnel responding to a call to said premises;
         (o)   The gross receipts and hereinafter described property factor,
sales factor, and payroll factor of the business for the previous calendar
year;
         (p)   Such additional information that the City Clerk/Treasurer
determines to be reasonably necessary;
         (q)   A warning in the following or similar language: Warning:
Statements in this application shall be made under oath, by affirmation, or any
other legally authorized matter of attesting to the truth of such statements,
with the signatures notarized, according to law, and any false statements made
herein shall be punishable according to law and may be cause for denial of the
application or the revocation of any business regulatory license issued
pursuant thereto; and
         (r)   A statement indicating whether any information within any prior
applications for an annual business regulatory license, that continues to be
accurate, is to be incorporated by reference into subsequent annual
applications by the same applicant.
   (D)   Application process.
      (1)   Signature to application. Each application for an annual business
regulatory license required hereby shall be signed by the applicant or an
authorized representative of the applicant, who shall attest to the truth of
the statements therein, with knowledge that any false statements constitute
perjury, for which the signatory may be prosecuted and punished according to
law, and such signatures shall be notarized according to law.
      (2)   Presentment of application; copy of application to City Clerk/
Treasurer; payment of fees. Each application for an annual business regulatory
license required hereby shall be presented to the City Clerk/Treasurer, or any
designee thereof, along with both the business regulatory license fee and any
occupational license fee due from the applicant. No application for a business
regulatory license shall be received by or on behalf of the city without
payment of the business regulatory license fee and any occupational license fee
due from the applicant. If the applicant elects to present an application for a
business regulatory license to the City Clerk/Treasurer’s designee who is not
an officer or employee of the city, then the applicant shall also present to
the City Clerk/Treasurer a legible copy of the application, and all exhibits
and attachments thereto, contemporaneously with the presentment of the
application to the City Clerk/Treasurer’s designee.
      (3)   Review of applications by City Clerk/Treasurer. Each application
for an annual business regulatory license required hereby shall be immediately
forwarded to and reviewed by the City Clerk/Treasurer according to the
following standards within 30 days after actual receipt by the City Clerk/
Treasurer.
         (a)   When the applicant, or employees of the applicant, are required
to have any license, permit, degree, certification, or other similar document
pursuant to the provision of any applicable law for the conduct of, or
employment in the business which is the subject of the application, the
license, permit, degree, certification, or other similar document shall have
been duly issued to the applicant or employees of the applicant prior to the
issuance of the business regulatory license. The applicant shall provide
documentary evidence of the issuance satisfactory to the City Clerk/Treasurer.
         (b)   The criminal record of the persons named or identified in the
application shall be considered to the extent such record includes conviction
of a felony, a misdemeanor for which imprisonment or other confinement was a
possible penalty, any other crime in which moral turpitude was involved, or any
other crime which was directly related to a business of the type which is the
subject of the application. In determining if a conviction was directly related
to a business, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall consider:
            1.   The nature and seriousness of the crime for which the person
was convicted;
            2.   The relationship of the crime to the purpose of the regulation
of the business;
            3.   The relationship of the crime to the ability, capacity, and
fitness required to perform the duties and discharge the responsibilities of
the operation of the business; and/or
            4.   The extent to which the person convicted has been successfully
rehabilitated.
         (c)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall consider whether the business is
of a type that the operation, unless closely supervised, has a probability of
generating or resulting in criminal activity or adversely affecting the health,
safety, morals, and welfare of occupants or residents of adjoining property,
the citizens, and residents of the city, or will constitute a nuisance.
         (d)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall consider the business history of
the applicant including:
            1.   Whether the persons named and identified in the application
have been denied or had suspended or revoked a similar license by the city or
any other city, county, or state and the reasons therefor; or
            2.   Whether complaints have been received by the city about the
business practices or responsibility of the persons named and identified in the
application, and the disposition of those complaints.
         (e)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall consider whether the persons
named and identified in the application are indebted to the city for delinquent
taxes, assessments, fines, penalties, or similar obligations.
         (f)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall consider whether the business and
the proposed location complies with all applicable laws, including, without
limitation, land subdivision and use, zoning, building construction and
maintenance, fire prevention, and life safety codes and regulations.
      (4)   Notice to the applicant. Unless the City Clerk/Treasurer
conditionally approves or disapproves the application for a business regulatory
license within 30 days after the application has been received by or on behalf
of the city, the City Clerk/Treasurer, or the designee thereof, shall issue the
business regulatory license that is the subject of the application and mail it
to the applicant at the address indicated in the application; and, thereafter,
the applicant may engage in the franchise, trade, occupation, profession, or
other business described in the application, but only at the address thereof
indicated in the application, until that business regulatory license expires or
is suspended or revoked according to the provisions of this subchapter.
      (5)   Conditional approval of application. In the event that the City
Clerk/Treasurer conditionally approves an application for a business regulatory
license, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the applicant thereof and the
reasons therefor by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the address of
the applicant indicated in the application, along with a notice that the
license will be issued by the City Clerk/Treasurer only upon receipt by the
City Clerk/Treasurer of a written signed acceptance by the applicant of the
conditions to be performed prior to the issuance of the license. The notice
shall also state that if the City Clerk/Treasurer does not receive the
acceptance within such time, the application will thereby be summarily
disapproved.
      (6)   Disapproval of application. In the event that the City Clerk/
Treasurer disapproves an application for a business regulatory license required
hereby, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the applicant of that denial and
the reasons therefor identified by certified mail, return receipt requested, to
the address of the applicant indicated in the application, with a refund of any
anticipated city occupational license fee paid with the application, and a
notice of the procedure established in this subchapter for an appeal from the
denial of that application.
      (7)   Business regulatory license revocation or suspension by City Clerk/
Treasurer.
         (a)   Any business regulatory license required hereby may be revoked
or suspended by the City Clerk/Treasurer for any period of time determined by
the City Clerk/Treasurer to be reasonable and appropriate for any one or more
of the following circumstances:
            1.   Any false or intentionally misleading statements, or
information provided in the license application;
            2.   Any failure or refusal to perform or abide by any of the
conditions of a conditional license;
            3.   The criminal conviction of any person named or identified in
the license application of a felony, a misdemeanor for which imprisonment or
any other confinement is a possible penalty, any other crime in which moral
turpitude is involved, or any other crime which directly relates to a business
of the type for which the license was issued. However, the consideration of
such a criminal conviction shall include:
               a.   The nature and seriousness of the crime for which the
person was convicted;
               b.   The relationship of the crime to the purposes of the
regulation of the business;
               c.   The relationship of the crime to the ability, capacity, and
fitness required to perform the duties and discharge the responsibilities of
the operation of the business; or
               d.   The extent to which the person has been successfully
rehabilitated.
            4.   The revocation, suspension, or expiration without renewal of
any license, permit, degree, certification, or similar document which is
required by any applicable law for the conduct of or employment in the business
for which the license was issued;
            5.   The violation of any applicable law in the conduct of the
business by any person engaged therein; or
            6.   Violations of applicable laws by any person within the
business premises of the licensee, or under the control thereof.
         (b)   Upon receipt by the City Clerk/Treasurer of evidence of any of
the circumstances of revocation or suspension described within division (D)(7)
(a) above with regard to any application for business regulatory license or
anybody mentioned therein, the City Clerk/Treasurer or his or her designee
shall attempt informally to contact the applicant at either the address set
forth within the application or the telephone number set forth therein, and, if
the contact attempt is successful:
            1.   Disclose said circumstances to the applicant;
            2.   Indicate to the applicant that if the circumstances are shown
to the City Clerk/Treasurer to be accurate, then the business regulatory
license may be revoked or suspended by the City Clerk/Treasurer;
            3.   Request that the applicant confirm or deny the truth of the
circumstances; and
            4.   Obtain any explanation or evidence from the applicant with
regard to the presence or absence of the circumstances. One of the attempts to
contact the applicant shall consist of a letter of notification sent to the
applicant at the address set forth within the application by certified mail,
return receipt requested. The City Clerk/Treasurer may decide whether or not to
revoke or suspend a business regulatory license after his or her attempts to
contact the application are deemed unsuccessful (including the applicant’s
failure to accept or sign for the certified mail letter of notification), or if
no response is received within ten calendar days of the applicant’s signature
for the letter of notification.
         (c)   After considering the evidence of the existence of the
circumstances described in division (D)(7)(a) above and any matters provided by
the applicant pursuant to division (D)(7)(b) above, the City Clerk/Treasurer
may revoke or suspend a business regulatory license if there is probable cause
that any one or more of the circumstances described within division (D)(7)(a)
above exists.
         (d)   The remedy of revocation or suspension of a business regulatory
license under this section shall be in addition to the imposition of any other
remedy or penalty prescribed under this subchapter or other applicable law.
      (8)   Appeals.
         (a)   Any conditional approval or disapproval of an application for a
business regulatory license required by this subchapter, or any suspension or
revocation of any such license may be appealed to the Mayor of the city, by
filing with the City Clerk/Treasurer within 30 days after the issuance of the
conditional approval, disapproval, revocation, or suspension:
            1.   A written notice of the appeal;
            2.   A copy of the conditional approval, disapproval, revocation,
or suspension that is the subject of the appeal;
            3.   A statement why there should be an approval without
conditions, or no disapproval, revocation, or suspension; and
            4.   An appeal fee in the sum of $200, to provide for the expenses
of conducting a hearing with regard thereto.
         (b)   In such an appeal, a de novo, evidentiary, on-the-record hearing
with regard to the suspension or revocation shall be conducted by the Mayor, or
by a hearing officer appointed by the Mayor, who shall file a record with the
Mayor, with a written recommendation regarding findings of fact, conclusions of
law, and a proposed decision based thereon. Within 90 days after the date the
appeal was filed, the Mayor shall issue a written decision in regard thereto,
including findings of fact, conclusions of law, and a decision based upon a
record of the evidentiary hearing, and the applicant shall be notified thereof
by certified mail, return receipt requested, at the address thereof indicated
in the application for the license. Unless an appeal from the decision of the
Mayor is filed in the court having jurisdiction thereof within 30 days after
the issuance of the decision of the Mayor, the decision of the Mayor shall
become final.
   (E)   Expiration date. Unless an earlier expiration date is provided
therein, all business regulatory licenses required hereby shall expire at
midnight on the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the end of the fiscal
year of the license.
   (F)   County Fiscal Court. The Mayor of the city may contract with the
County Fiscal Court, for the performance of the duties imposed hereby on the
City Clerk/Treasurer; provided, however, that nothing within said contract may
relieve an applicant of the obligation to provide a copy of the application to
the City Clerk/Treasurer contemporaneously with filing the original with the
county.
(2010 Code, § 110A.03) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 BUSINESS AND PAYROLL TAXATION; LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   Levy and imposition. For the purpose of providing funds for the
general operating expenses of the city and the municipal services and functions
provided thereby, and subject to the provisions of KRS 67.750 through 67.795,
and except as provided in division (D) below, an occupational license fee is
hereby levied and imposed upon anybody engaged in any labor, work, services,
franchise, trade, occupation, profession, or other businesses in the city or,
for the privilege of that engagement.
   (B)   Occupational license fee rate. Commencing January 1, 2022 and
thereafter, the occupational license fee levied and imposed hereby is at the
rate of 0.00125% of the taxable gross receipts of everybody, other than
employees, who is engaged in any franchise, trade, occupation, profession, or
other business in the city, with a minimum of $25 per calendar year with no
maximum per calendar year.
   (C)   Apportionment of gross receipts. Pursuant to KRS 67.753(4), it is
hereby determined that the apportionment provisions of KRS 67.753 do not fairly
represent the extent of the engagement in the city of those, other than
employees, who are engaged in any franchise, trade, occupation, profession, or
other business both within and outside of the city; and, accordingly, the
following described property factor is hereby added to the payroll factor and
the sales factor provided in KRS 67.753 for the apportionment of the gross
receipts of those, other than employees, who are engaged in any franchise,
trade, occupation, profession, or other business both within and outside of the
city.
      (1)   The property factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the
average value of the taxpayer’s real and tangible personal property owned or
rented and used in the city during the computation period, and the denominator
of which is the average value of all of the taxpayer’s real and tangible
personal property owned or rented and used anywhere during the computation
period. In the determination of the property factor:
         (a)   Property owned by the taxpayer is valued at its original cost.
Property rented by the taxpayer is valued at eight times the net annual rental
rate which is the annual rental rate paid by the taxpayer less any annual
rental rate received by the taxpayer from sub-rentals; and
         (b)   The average value of property shall be determined by averaging
the values at the beginning and ending of the computation period, but the City
Clerk/Treasurer may require the averaging of monthly values during the
computation period if reasonably required to reflect properly the average value
of the taxpayer’s property.
      (2)   The proportion of the total gross receipts everywhere of those,
other than employees, who are engaged in any franchise, trade, occupation,
profession, or other business both within and outside of the city that are
subject to the occupational license fee established by this subchapter, shall
be determined by multiplying the total gross receipts thereof everywhere by the
quotient of the total of the payroll factor and the sales factor described in
KRS 67.753(2) and (3), and the property factor described in the previous
section, that the franchise, trade, occupation, profession, or other business
had in the city during the tax period, divided by the total number of those
factors that the franchise, trade, occupation, profession, or other business
had in the city during the tax period . The total number of those factors that
the franchise, trade, occupation, profession, or other business had in the city
during the tax period will always be either one, two, or three. For example, if
the franchise, trade, occupation, profession, or other business:
         (a)   Had only the sales revenue factor in the city, during the tax
period, without either the property factor or the payroll factor in the city,
the total number of those factors that the franchise, trade, occupation,
profession, or other business had in the city during the tax period would be
one;
         (b)   Had both the sales revenue factor and the payroll factor in the
city, during the tax period, without the property factor in the city, the total
number of those factors that the franchise, trade, occupation, profession, or
other business had in the city during the tax period would be two; or
         (c)   Had the sales revenue factor, and the payroll factor, and the
property factor in the city, during the tax period, the total number of those
factors that the franchise, trade, occupation, profession, or other business
had in the city during the tax period would be three.
   (D)   Exemptions. The following labor, work, services, franchises, trades,
occupations, professions, and other businesses are exempted from the
occupational license fee levied and imposed in divisions (A) and (B) above:
      (1)   The employment of domestic servants in private homes;
      (2)   Ministers of religion who have been ordained in accordance with the
ceremonial ritual or discipline of a recognized church, religious sect, or
religious organization, to teach and preach its religious doctrines or to
administer its rites in public worship, in the performance of one or more of
those duties. However, it is not intended to exempt an ordained minister of
religion from paying a occupational license fee for labor or work done or
services performed in the city with regard to activities not connected with his
or her regular duties as a minister of religion; and
      (3)   Anybody owning a duplex when the owner occupies one of the
apartments in said duplex.
   (E)   Administrative provisions. The provisions of this subchapter shall be
administered and enforced by the City Clerk/Treasurer, who is hereby authorized
to promulgate any additional regulations in regard thereto which are not
inconsistent with any statute, any ordinance of the city, or any executive
order of the Mayor.
   (F)   Purpose of occupational license fee. The purpose of the occupational
license fees imposed and levied hereby is to fund the general operating
expenses of the city, including, without limitation, police, fire, emergency
medical, public works, and administrative services.
(2010 Code, § 110A.04) (Ord. 10, 2013, passed 8-12-2013; Ord. 2021-16, passed
12-13-2021)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 COLLECTION.
   The business regulatory license fees and occupational license fees imposed
and levied hereby shall be received and collected by the City Clerk/Treasurer
or by the County Fiscal Court, with which the executive authority of the city
is hereby authorized to contract for those services.
(2010 Code, § 110A.05)
CITY PAYROLL FEES
§ 110.20 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUSINESS, TRADE, OCCUPATION, or PROFESSION.
         (a)   The doing of any kind of personal services, or the holding of
any kind of position or job within the city, any clerk, laborer, tradesmen,
manager, official, or other employee, including any nonresident of the city who
is employed by any employer as defined in this section, where the relationship
between the individual performing the services and the person for whom such
services are rendered is, as to those services, the legal relationship of
employer and employee, including also a partner of a firm or an officer of a
firm or corporation if such partner or officer receives a salary for his or her
personal services rendered in the business of such firm or corporation, except
as otherwise exempted in §
110.31 hereof.
         (b)   The holding of any office or position, either by election or
appointment, by any federal, state, county, or city officers or employees, or
employee of any government body or unit or administration or agency, or other
entity where the services of such official or employee are rendered within the
city.
      CITY. The City of Park Hills, Kentucky.
      EMPLOYEE. Any person who renders services to another for a financial
consideration or its equivalent, under an express or implied contract, and who
is under the control and direction of the latter, and shall include temporary,
provisional, casual, or part-time employment.
      EMPLOYER. An individual, co-partnership, association, corporation,
government body or unit, or administration or agency, or any other entity, who
or that employs one or more persons on a salary, wage, commission, or other
compensation basis, or a self-employed person without employees, regardless of
whether such employer, or self-employed person, is engaged in business as above
defined, or is excluded by the terms of said definition.
      FRAUD. Willful intent to evade license fees with prior knowledge of this
subchapter.
      GROSS RECEIPTS AND COMPENSATION. The total gross amount of all salaries,
wages, commissions, bonuses, or other considerations having monetary value,
which a person receives from or is entitled to receive from or be given credit
for by his or her employer for any work done or personal services rendered in
any trade, occupation, or profession, including any kind of deductions before
take home pay is received, but the words GROSS RECEIPTS AND COMPENSATION shall
not mean or include amounts paid to traveling salesperson or other workers as
allowances or reimbursements for traveling or other expenses incurred in the
business of the employer, except to the extent of the excess of such amounts
over such expenses actually incurred and accounted for by the employee to his
or her employer.
      LICENSE INSPECTOR. The person designated by the City Council to
administer the provisions of this subchapter, collect the sums due hereunder,
and enforce the provisions hereof, be it the City Clerk/Treasurer or collector
of taxes, or otherwise.
      LICENSEE. Any person required to file a return or to pay a license fee
under this subchapter.
      NEGLIGENCE. The intentional disregard of this subchapter and timely
filing of return deadline.
      PERSON.
         (a)   Every natural person, co-partnership, fiduciary, association, or
corporation, or self-employed person, firm, corporation, or other business
entity without employees.
         (b)   Whenever the term PERSON is used in any clause prescribing and
imposing a penalty, in the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as
applied to association, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers and directors.
      UNDERPAYMENT. The total amount of all deficiencies.
   (B)   Tense and gender. The singular shall include the plural and vice
versa, and the masculine shall include the feminine and the gender neutral.
(2010 Code, § 111.01)
§ 110.21 AMOUNT OF LICENSE FEE.
   On and after July l, 2021, every individual, person, association,
corporation, company, or other entity engaged in any occupation, business,
trade, profession, or other activity within the city shall pay to the city a
license fee for the privilege of engaging in said activities, which license fee
shall be measured by 1.5% of all salaries, wages, commissions, tips,
gratuities, bonuses, gross receipts, or other compensation earned by every
person in the city for work done or services performed or rendered in the city.
(2010 Code, § 111.02) (Ord. 2, 2021, passed 4-12-2021)
§ 110.22 ALTERNATE COMPUTATION OF FEE FOR WORK OUTSIDE THE CITY.
   In cases where salaries, wages, commissions, tips, gratuities, bonuses,
gross receipts, or other compensation is earned as a result of work done or
services performed within and without the city, the license fee required under
this subchapter shall be computed by determining upon the oath of the employer,
or if required by the License Inspector, upon the oath of the employee, that
percentage of the salaries, wages, commissions, tips, gratuities, bonuses,
gross receipts, or other compensation earned from the proportion of the work
which was done or performed within the city.
(2010 Code, § 111.03) (Ord. 2, 2021, passed 4-12-2021)
§ 110.23 EMPLOYERS TO OBTAIN LICENSE AND TO WITHHOLD LICENSE FEE AND FILE
RETURNS.
   (A)   Every employer shall obtain a license from the License Inspector
before the commencement of business, provided, however, that where such
employer has a current license from the city for the conduct of such business
under this or any other subchapter, this section shall not apply.
   (B)   Each employer who employs one or more persons within the city shall
deduct from the pay due any employee the amount of the license fee measured by
all of the salaries, wages, commissions, tips, gratuities, bonuses, gross
receipts, or other compensation due each employee by the employer at the time
of payment thereof, on any such sums earned due and accrued after July 1, 2021.
The payment required to be made on account of such deductions by employers
shall be made quarterly to the License Inspector, for the quarterly periods
ending March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31 of each year, on or
before the last day of the month next following the end of each quarterly
period.
   (C)   Each employer shall, at the end of each quarter, make a return on a
form furnished by the city, which shall include the name of the employee, his
or her Social Security number, the gross amount due and paid such employee, and
the amount withheld, or, in lieu thereof, a true and correct copy of the Social
Security return filed by the employer with the federal government. Provided,
however, that the failure or omission by an employer to deduct such license fee
shall not relieve an employee from the payment of such license fee and
compliance with the requirements for making returns as provided in this
subchapter or with any regulation promulgated under this subchapter.
   (D)   Each such employer shall file in the office of the License Inspector
on forms to be furnished by the city the last known address of each such
employee, and on or before January 31 in each year thereafter, a return showing
the gross amount of salary, wage, commission, or other compensation of each
employee and the amount of license fees deducted and paid by the employer
during all or any part of the preceding calendar year. Such returns shall also
include such pertinent information as the License Inspector may require.
   (E)   The employer shall, on or before January 31 of each year, furnish to
each employee to whom a salary, wage, commission, or other compensation is due
in accordance herewith, a statement showing the gross amount of such wage,
salary, commission, or other compensation and the amount deducted and paid by
the employer during the previous year.
(2010 Code, § 111.04) (Ord. 2, 2021, passed 4-12-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.24 EMPLOYEE SHALL FILE IF EMPLOYER FAILS TO DO SO.
   When a return in form and substance satisfactory to the License Inspector is
not filed by an employer and the license fees are not paid to the city by such
employer, the employee for whom no return has been filed and no payment has
been made shall file a return with the License Inspector on or before January
31 annually showing in said return his or her gross receipts subject to license
fees for the period from January 1 to December 31, and shall file a return with
the License Inspector on or before January 31 of each year thereafter, showing
in said return his or her gross receipts subject to license fees during the
preceding calendar year. Such return may be made by completing the original
copy of the statement furnished him or her by his or her employer if such
statement shows all of the compensation earned by him or her wherever employed,
during the period for which such return is made. If for any reason all license
fees of a person subject to the provisions of this subchapter were not withheld
by his or her employer from his or her gross receipts, such person shall file
the return required by this section on a form obtainable at the office of the
License Inspector. In addition to the gross receipts earned by him or her, such
return shall show other pertinent information as may be required by the License
Inspector. Each person making a return required by this section shall, at the
time of filing thereof, pay the License Inspector the amount of license fee due
under this subchapter; provided, however, that any portion of the license fee
deducted at the source shall be deducted on the return and only the balance, if
any, shall be due and payable at the time of filing said return. The amount of
any license fees which were due on April 30, July 31, October 31, and January
31 in each year as provided herein, shall bear interest from the date the same
became due at the rate of 8% per annum until paid, and the employer failing to
pay the same when due, shall also pay the penalty imposed under this code.
(2010 Code, § 111.05) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.25 DUTIES OF LICENSE INSPECTOR.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the License Inspector to collect and receive
all license fees imposed by this subchapter and to keep records showing the
amounts received by him or her from each employer.
   (B)   The License Inspector shall, in his or her discretion, have the
authority to extend the filing of returns required by this subchapter. Such
extension shall be upon written request of the licensee. Provided, however,
that any balance unpaid when payment is due under the terms of this subchapter
shall bear interest at the rate of 8% per annum until paid.
(2010 Code, § 111.06)
§ 110.26 INVESTIGATIVE POWERS OF LICENSE INSPECTOR.
   The License Inspector, or any agent or employee designated by him or her, is
hereby authorized to examine the books, papers, and records of any employer or
supposed employer or of any licensee or supposed licensee in order to determine
the accuracy of any return made, or if no return was made to ascertain the
amount of license fee due under the terms of this subchapter by such
examination. Each such employer or supposed employer, or licensee or supposed
licensee shall give to the License Inspector or to his or her duly authorized
agent or employee the means, facilities, and opportunities for the making of
such examination and investigation. The License Inspector is hereby authorized
to examine any person under oath concerning any gross receipts which were or
should have been shown in a return and to this end he or she may compel the
production of books, papers, records, and the attendance of all persons before
him or her whether as parties or as witnesses, whom he or she believes to have
knowledge of such gross receipts or compensation, to the extent that any
officer empowered to administer an oath in this commonwealth is permitted to so
order.
(2010 Code, § 111.07)
§ 110.27 REGULATIONS PROMULGATED BY LICENSE INSPECTOR.
   The License Inspector is hereby charged with the enforcement of the
provisions of this subchapter, and, is hereby empowered to prescribe, adopt,
promulgate, and enforce regulations relating to any matter or thing pertaining
to the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter,
including but not limited to provisions for the re-examination and correction
of returns as to which an overpayment or underpayment is claimed or found to
have been made, and the regulations so promulgated shall be binding upon all
licensees and employers.
(2010 Code, § 111.08)
§ 110.28 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   The License Inspector may disclose to the Commissioner of Revenue of
the commonwealth or his or her duly authorized agent, all such information and
rights to inspect any of the books and records of the License Inspector if said
Commissioner of Revenue of the commonwealth grants to the License Inspector the
reciprocal right to obtain information from the files and records of the
Department of Revenue of the commonwealth and maintains the privileged
character of the information so furnished to him or her.
   (B)   Provided, however, that the city may publish statistics based on such
information in such a manner as not to reveal data respecting the gross
receipts of any person.
(2010 Code, § 111.09)
§ 110.29 INTEREST.
   (A)   All license fees imposed by this subchapter which remain unpaid after
they became due shall bear interest at the rate of 12% per annum and any person
who failed to pay such license fee when the same became due shall also be
charged a penalty of 20% per annum if the delay is not more than one month but
not over a total of 25% of the amount of such unpaid license fees. Any person
or employer who fails or refuses to withhold any license fee payable under this
subchapter, or who fails to pay such fees, after withholding the same to the
License Inspector at the time it is due as provided under the terms of §
110.23 hereof, shall become liable to the city for such fees, as well as for
the interest thereon at the rate of 12% per annum and for the aforesaid
penalty.
   (B)   If nonpayment of any portion of the tax was due to negligence or
intentional disregard of this subchapter or regulations without intent to
defraud, 25% of the tax is added as a penalty.
   (C)   If any portion of the tax was unpaid due to fraud, 50% of the tax is
added as a penalty.
(2010 Code, § 111.10) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.30 USE OF LICENSE FEE.
   All money derived from license fees under the provisions of this subchapter
shall be paid to the License Inspector and placed to the credit of:
   (A)   The General Revenue Fund of the city and shall be used and expended in
defraying the current, general, and incidental expenses of the city;
   (B)   For capital improvements; or
   (C)   For the construction and reconstruction of streets, alleys, curbs, or
sidewalks as authorized by the City Council.
(2010 Code, § 111.11)
§ 110.31 EXEMPTED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Because of the undue burden of administration, no license under this
subchapter shall be required of domestic servants employed in private homes.
   (B)   No license shall be required of a minister of religion who has been
ordained in accordance with the ceremonial ritual or discipline of a recognized
church, religious sect, or religious organization, to teach and preach its
religious doctrines or to administer its rights in public worship, in the
performance of one or more of those duties. Provided, however, that it is not
intended to exempt such ordained minister of religion from the necessity of
paying a license fee for work done or services performed in the city in
activities not connected with his or her regular duties as a minister of
religion.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to mean that employees of
churches, religious congregations, or religious societies of all creeds (except
duly ordained ministers) shall be relieved from the payment of an occupational
license fee in compliance with all regulations established by the License
Inspector with respect to making returns and payment of said fees.
(2010 Code, § 111.12)
§ 110.32 LIABILITY FOR TAX ASSESSED AGAINST SUBCONTRACTORS.
   (A)   Any person acting as a general contractor within the city, whether
said person is the owner of real estate acting in his or her own capacity or as
a general contractor for hire, shall be responsible for any and all license
fees due the city provided for in the above sections, from any and all
subcontractors engaged by the general contractor or person acting as general
contractor, relating to businesses conducted within the city, including but not
limited to subcontractors providing labor, and/or services, and/or materials
for the use in the erection, alteration, or improvement of real estate or
structures upon real estate located within the city.
   (B)   The term GENERAL CONTRACTOR as used herein shall include the owner of
real estate who engages the services of subcontractors, general contractors for
hire regularly engaging the services of subcontractors for the performance of
service, supplying of labor and/or materials in any trade, profession, or
occupation, any sales representative, sales agent, broker, or person engaging
in the services of independent contractors to perform services, provide labor,
and/or supply materials, including the selling of goods, within the city.
   (C)   Any person conducting a business in the city, which business regularly
engages the services of independent contractors to provide services, labor,
and/or materials, and paying commissions to said independent contractor as a
part of the business operated in the city, shall be liable for the payment of
license fees as provided for in the above sections, based upon the amounts of
said commissions, the same as if the independent contractors referenced above
were regular employees, and the commissions were paid as payroll.
(2010 Code, § 111.13) Penalty, see §
110.99
SPECIAL OCCUPATIONAL REGULATIONS, TAXES, AND FEES
§ 110.45 REGULATION AND LICENSING OF SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS.
   (A)   Permit and license required. It shall be unlawful for any solicitor or
canvasser, as defined in division (B) below, to engage in such business within
the corporate limits of the city without first obtaining a permit and license
therefor in compliance with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Definition. A CANVASSER or SOLICITOR is defined as any individual,
whether a resident of the city or not, traveling either by foot, wagon,
automobile, motor truck, or any house, or from street to street, taking or
attempting to take orders for sale of goods, wares, and merchandise, personal
property of any nature whatsoever for future delivery, or for services to be
furnished or performed in the future, whether or not such individual has,
carries, or exposes for sale a sample of the subject of such sale or whether he
or she is collecting advance payments on such sales or not; provided that such
definition shall include any person who, for himself, herself, or for another
person, firm, company, or corporation, hires, leases, uses, or occupies any
building, structure, tent, hotel room, lodging house, apartment, shop, or any
other place within the city for the purpose of exhibiting samples and taking
orders for future delivery.
   (C)   Application. Applicants for permits and licenses under this section
must file with the City Clerk/Treasurer a sworn application in writing (in
duplicate) on a form to be furnished by the City Clerk/Treasurer, which shall
give the following information:
      (1)   Name and description of the applicant, including date of birth and
Social Security number;
      (2)   Permanent home address and full local address of the applicant;
      (3)   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to
be sold;
      (4)   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials establishing the exact relationship;
      (5)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
      (6)   The places where the goods or property proposed to be sold, or
orders taken for the sale thereof, are manufactured or produced, where such
goods or products are located at the time said application is filed, and the
proposed method of delivery;
      (7)   A photograph of the applicant taken within 60 days immediately
prior to the date of filing of the application, which picture shall be two
inches by two inches showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear
and distinguishing manner;
      (8)   The fingerprints of the applicant and the names of at least two
reliable property owners of the county, who will certify as to the applicant’s
good character and business respectability or, in lieu of the names of
references, such other available evidence as to the good character and business
responsibility of the applicant as will enable an investigator to properly
evaluate such character and business responsibility;
      (9)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
of any crime, misdemeanor, or violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature
of the offense, and the punishment or penalty assessed therefor; and
      (10)   A statement by a reputable physician of the county, dated not more
than ten days prior to submission of the application, certifying the applicant
to be free of contagious, infectious, or communicable disease.
   (D)   Investigation and issuance.
      (1)   Upon receipt of such application, the original shall be referred to
the Chief of Police, who shall cause such investigation of the applicant’s
business and moral character to be made as he or she deems necessary for the
protection of the public good.
      (2)   If as a result of such investigation, the applicant’s character or
business responsibility is found to be unsatisfactory, the Chief of Police
shall endorse on such application his or her disapproval and his or her reasons
for the same, and return the said application to the City Clerk/Treasurer, who
shall notify the applicant that his or her application is disapproved and that
no permit and license will be issued.
      (3)   If as a result of such investigation, the character and business
responsibility of the applicant are found to be satisfactory, the Chief of
Police shall endorse on the application his or her approval, execute a permit
addressed to the applicant for the carrying on of the business applied for and
return said permit, along with the application to the City Clerk/Treasurer, who
shall, upon payment of the prescribed license fee, deliver to the applicant his
or her permit and issue a license. Such license shall contain the signature and
seal of the issuing officer and shall show the name, address, and photograph of
said licensee, the class of license issued and the kind of goods to be sold
thereunder, the amount of fee paid, the date of issuance, and the length of
time the same shall be operative, as well as the license number, and other
identifying description of any vehicle used in such soliciting or canvassing.
The Clerk/Treasurer shall keep a permanent record of all licenses issued.
   (E)   Fees.
      (1)   The license fee which shall be charged by the City Clerk/Treasurer
for each such license shall be as provided in §§
110.01 through
110.05.
      (2)   The annual fees herein provided shall be assessed on a calendar-
year basis, and on or after July 1 the amount of such fee for annual license
shall be one-half the amount stipulated above for the remainder of the year.
   (F)   Bond. Every applicant, not a resident of the city, or who being a
resident of the city, represents a firm whose principal place of business is
located outside the commonwealth, shall file with the City Clerk/Treasurer a
surety bond, running to the city in the amount of $1,000, with surety
acceptable to and approved by the Mayor, conditioned that the said applicant
shall comply fully with all the provisions of the ordinances of the city and
the statutes of the commonwealth regulating and concerning the business of
solicitors and guaranteeing to any citizen of the city that all money paid as a
down payment will be accounted for and applied according to the representations
of the solicitor, and further guaranteeing to any citizen of the city doing
business with said solicitor, that the property purchased will be delivered
according to the representations of said solicitor. Action on such bond may be
brought in the name of the city to the use or benefit of the aggrieved person.
   (G)   Badges. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall issue to each licensee at the
time of delivery of his or her license a badge which shall contain the words
licensed solicitor, the period for which the license is issued, and the number
of the license in letters and figures easily discernible from a distance of ten
feet. Such badge shall, during the time such licensee is engaged in soliciting,
be worn constantly by the licensee on the front of his or her outer garment in
such a way as to be conspicuous.
   (H)   Exhibition of license. Solicitors and canvassers are required to
exhibit their licenses at the request of any citizen.
   (I)   Duty of police to enforce. It shall be the duty of any police officer
of the city to require any person seen soliciting or canvassing, and who is not
known by such officer to be duly licensed, to produce his or her solicitor’s or
canvasser’s license and to enforce the provisions of this section against any
person found to be violating the same.
   (J)   Records. The Chief of Police shall report to the City Clerk/Treasurer
all convictions for violation of this section, and the City Clerk/Treasurer
shall maintain a record for each license issued and record the reports of
violation therein.
   (K)   Revocation of license.
      (1)   Permits and licenses issued under the provisions of this section
may be revoked by the Mayor of the city after notice and hearing, for any of
the following causes:
         (a)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements contained in the
application for license;
         (b)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements made in the course
of carrying on his or her business as solicitor or as canvasser;
         (c)   Any violation of this section;
         (d)   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral
turpitude; or
         (e)   Conducting the business of soliciting or of canvassing, in an
unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a menace to the health,
safety, or general welfare of the public.
      (2)   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of complaint and the time and
place of hearing. Such notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the licensee
at his or her last known address at least five days prior to the date set for
hearing.
   (L)   Appeal. Any person aggrieved by the action of the Chief of Police or
the City Clerk/Treasurer in the denial of a permit or license, as provided in
division (D) above, shall have the right of appeal to the Council. Such appeal
shall be taken by filing with the Council within 14 days after notice of the
action complained of has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a
written statement setting forth fully on the grounds for the appeal. The
Council shall set a time and place for a hearing on such appeal and notice of
such hearing shall be given to the appellant in the same manner as provided in
division (K) above for notice of hearing on revocation. The decision and order
of the Council on such appeal shall be final and conclusive.
   (M)   Expiration of license. All annual licenses issued under the provisions
of this section shall expire on December 31 in the year when it was issued;
licenses other than annual licenses shall expire on the date specified in the
license.
   (N)   Loud noises and speaking devices. No licenses under this section, nor
anyone on his or her behalf, shall shout, make any outcry, blow a horn, ring a
bell, or use any other sound device, including any loud-speaking radio or
amplifying system, upon any of the streets, alleys, parks, or other public
places of the city or upon any private premises in the city where sound of
sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom capable of being plainly
heard upon the streets, avenues, alleys, parks, or other public places for the
purpose of attracting attention to any goods, wares, or merchandise which such
licensee proposes to sell.
   (O)   Exemptions. This section shall not be applicable to newsboys, nor to
bona fide merchants who merely deliver goods in the regular course of business,
nor to bona fide charitable, religious, civic, patriotic, or philanthropic
organizations.
   (P)   Hours. The hours of door-to-door solicitation within the city shall be
from 9:00 a.m. until 8:00 p.m., Mondays through Fridays, and from 1:00 p.m.
until 5:00 p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays.
(2010 Code, § 112.01) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.46 REGULATION AND REGISTRATION OF CHARITABLE SOLICITORS.
   (A)   Registration required. It shall be unlawful for any charitable
solicitor, as defined in division (B) below, to solicit for charitable,
religious, social, patriotic, or civic clubs or organizations within the
corporate limits of the city without first registering in compliance with the
provisions hereof.
   (B)   Definition. A CHARITABLE SOLICITOR is defined as any individual,
whether a resident of the city or not, who solicits donations or contributions
for, or sells insignia or novelties on the streets of the city on behalf of, or
under the sponsorship of, any charitable, religious, social, patriotic, or
civic club or organization.
   (C)   Registration. Any charitable, religious, social, patriotic, or civic
club or organization wishing to solicit donations or contributions for, or to
sell any insignias or novelty on the streets of the city or on behalf of, or
under the sponsorship of, such organizations shall be required to register such
solicitation or sale with the Chief of Police of the city at least 48 hours in
advance of such event and to obtain a permit therefor.
   (D)   Form of registration. The registration required by this section shall
be in writing, shall be signed by the chief officer of the club or
organization, and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name and object of the charitable, religious, social,
patriotic, or civic club or organization conducting or sponsoring the
solicitation or sale to which the registration relates;
      (2)   The day or days on which the solicitation or sale will take place;
      (3)   The object for which the funds to be derived from the solicitation
or sale will be utilized; and
      (4)   The name and address of the chief officer of the club or
organization conducting or sponsoring the solicitation or sale.
   (E)   Exemption. This section shall not apply to any locally-established
organization or church operated exclusively for charitable or religious
purposes if the solicitations are in the form of collections or contributions
at the regular assemblies of any such organization or church.
   (F)   Duty to exhibit. Charitable solicitors shall be required to exhibit
his, her, or their permit at the request of any citizen.
   (G)   Unlawful acts. It shall be unlawful for any person to execute a
registration which contains any false statement, and it shall be unlawful for
any person to solicit donations or contributions or sell any insignia or
novelty on the streets of the city purportedly on behalf of, or under the
sponsorship of, any charitable, religious, social, patriotic, or civic club or
organization which does not in fact exist.
   (H)   Hours. The hours for door-to-door solicitation within the city shall
be from 9:00 a.m. until 8:00 p.m., Mondays through Fridays, and from 1:00 p.m.
until 5:00 p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays.
(2010 Code, § 112.02) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.47 REGULATION OF HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Home occupations shall be permitted within the city according to the
terms set out below.
   (B)   The term HOME OCCUPATIONS shall mean the use of the premises for
services rendered other than by direct contact with customers at that location
(for example, where the bulk of the business is by telephone, actual work is
performed in home, and customer is contacted in other than that location).
   (C)   The following requirements shall apply to home occupations when
permitted herein.
      (1)   No persons other than members of the family residing in the
premises shall be engaged in such operation on the premises.
      (2)   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants. Not more than 25% of the gross floor area of any one floor of the
dwelling unit (including basement or cellar) shall be used in the conduct of
the home occupation.
      (3)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building
or premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of such home occupation
that will indicate from the exterior that the building is being utilized in
part for any purpose other than that of a dwelling unit, except a name plate if
permitted by the zoning ordinance.
      (4)   No home occupation shall be conducted in any accessory building,
nor shall there be any exterior storage of any materials or equipment on the
premises.
      (5)   There shall be no commodity sold upon the premises and no
warehousing or breaking bulk in connection with such home occupation.
      (6)   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in greater
volumes than would normally be expected in that residential neighborhood.
      (7)   No equipment or process which creates noise, vibration, flare,
flames, odors, or electrical interference detectable to the normal senses off
the lot shall be used in such home occupation. In the case of electrical
interference, no equipment or process which creates visual or audible
interference in any radio or television receivers off the premises, or causes
fluctuations in line voltage off the premises, shall be used.
(2010 Code, § 112.03) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Each separate violation of §§
110.01 through
110.05 is hereby classified as a civil offense, for which:
         (a)   The maximum civil fine required by KRS 65.8808(2)(b) that may be
imposed for each separate violation of §§
110.01 through
110.05 is hereby established as $500;
         (b)   An enforcement officer may, in lieu of immediately issuing a
civil citation, give notice that the violation of §§
110.01 through
110.05 shall be remedied within a specific period of time; and
         (c)   Except as provided in division (B)(1)(a) above with regard to
the amount of the civil fine to be imposed hereunder, §§
30.100 through
30.109 shall govern all proceedings arising from the issuance of a citation for
the violation of §§
110.01 through
110.05.
(2010 Code, § 110A.06)
      (2)   Each violation of §§
110.01 through
110.05 shall be a misdemeanor for which everybody convicted thereof in a court
of competent jurisdiction shall be sentenced to pay a criminal fine not to
exceed the maximum amount of $500, as set forth in KRS 534.050(2)(a), or a term
of imprisonment not to exceed the maximum period of 12 months, as set forth in
KRS 532.090(1), or both.
(2010 Code, § 110A.07)
   (C)   Any information gained by the License Inspector or any other official
or agent or employee of the city as a result of any returns, investigations,
hearings, or verifications required or authorized by §§
110.20 through
110.32, shall be confidential except for official purposes and except in
accordance with proper judicial order, or as otherwise provided by law, and any
persons or agents divulging such information shall, upon conviction, be subject
to a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500, or to imprisonment of not
exceeding 30 days, or to both such fine and imprisonment, at the discretion of
the court or jury.
(2010 Code, § 111.09)
   (D)   Any person or employer who shall fail, neglect, or refuse to make any
return required by §§
110.20 through
110.32 or any licensee who shall fail, neglect, or refuse to secure or pay a
license fee, or any employer who shall fail to withhold said license fees or to
pay over to the city such license fees, penalties, or interest imposed by §§
110.20 through
110.32, or any employer who withholds any such fee from any employee who shall
not pay same to the License Inspector, or any person, or employer who shall
refuse to permit the license or any agent or employee designated by him or her,
in writing, to examine his or her books, records, and papers, for the purposes
as set forth in §
110.26, or who shall knowingly make any incomplete, false, or fraudulent
return, or who shall attempt to do anything whatsoever to avoid the full
disclosure of the amount of gross receipts or compensation in order to avoid
the payment of the whole or any part of the license fee, shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine or penalty of not less than $50 nor more than
$250 or imprisonment of not more than 30 days, or to both such fine or
imprisonment for each offense. Such criminal penalties shall be in addition to
the penalties imposed under §
110.29(A).
(2010 Code, § 111.10)
   (E)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
110.45 shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not to exceed
$500, or by imprisonment not to exceed 60 days, or both.
(2010 Code, § 112.01)
   (F)   (1)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
110.46(G) shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not to exceed
$500, or by imprisonment not to exceed 60 days, or both.
      (2)   Any person violating any other provision of §
110.46 shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not less than
$10 more than $100.
(2010 Code, § 112.02)
   (G)   Any person, persons, firms, corporations, companies, or other entity
operating a business in a residential zone in violation of §
110.47 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500.
Each day of such violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(2010 Code, § 112.03)
CHAPTER 111: CONSUMER PROTECTION
Section
   
111.01   Inspection of business premises
   
111.02   Regulations of palmists and fortune tellers
   
111.03   Hotels and motels to post rates; require guest registration
   
111.04   Regulation of security systems
   
111.05   Regulation of garage sales, attic sales, and the like
   
111.06   Sale of jewelry, coins, precious stones, and metals
   
111.07   License fee for electronic amusement games and devices
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 INSPECTION OF BUSINESS PREMISES.
   (A)   Short title. This chapter shall be known as the “Minimum Safety
Standards for Business Premises”.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUSINESS PREMISES. All places and structures wherein commercial activity,
trades, occupations, and professions are engaged in, carried on, or conducted
in the city.
      LICENSE AGENT. The City Clerk/Treasurer and Police Chief.
      SAFETY INSPECTOR. The City Fire Chief and Police Chief.
      UNSAFE CONDITION.
         (a)   Any of the following causes:
            1.   Want of repair;
            2.   Insufficient fire escapes;
            3.   Extreme age;
            4.   Extreme liability to fire loss;
            5.   Dilapidated general condition;
            6.   Inflammable conditions likely to cause fire loss; or
            7.   Any other cause that is hazardous to the public health,
safety, or welfare.
         (b)   Provided, however, that this section shall not apply to unsafe
natural conditions such as woodlands, natural land formations, watersheds, and
conveyances of surface water as well as surface water reservoirs constructed in
the interest of conservation of natural resources.
   (C)   Inspections generally.
      (1)   All business premises may be periodically inspected by the City
Safety Inspector in a reasonable manner at reasonable times, and in the event a
voluntary inspection is denied by the premises owner, a search warrant based
upon this section shall be issued upon probable cause by the Police Judge of
the city.
      (2)   The Safety Inspector shall make a written report of his or her
findings as a result of this inspection and shall keep it on file and turn it
over to the Police Department for remedial action.
      (3)   Prior to the issuance of any occupational license, the licensing
agent may require inspection of the premises to be licensed.
   (D)   Safety Inspector.
      (1)   The Safety Inspector shall determine if there is any hazardous
condition existing which is dangerous to the public, health, safety, or
welfare.
      (2)   The unsafe conditions shall be enumerated in that determination.
      (3)   This determination shall be in writing.
      (4)   (a)   In the event that any of the unsafe conditions are found such
as:
            1.   Want of repair;
            2.   Insufficient fire escapes;
            3.   Extreme age;
            4.   Extreme liability to fire loss;
            5.   Dilapidated general condition;
            6.   Inflammable conditions likely to cause fire loss; or
            7.   Any other findings which show hazardously to the public
safety, health, or welfare.
         (b)   Then proper action shall be taken in the form of an order to
remedy, raze, or remove, and it shall be sent by personal service to the
property owner by a member of the Police Department or by registered mail.
      (5)   In the event this order is not appealed to the Commissioner of
Public Safety within ten days, the order shall become final and appropriate
police action shall be taken.
(2010 Code, § 113.01)
§ 111.02 REGULATIONS OF PALMISTS AND FORTUNE TELLERS.
   (A)   This section regulates the operation of all palmists and fortune
tellers of whatever kind and nature within the city.
   (B)   The operator of said facility as listed in division (A) above shall
obtain each year a license to operate the same and pay the City Clerk/Treasurer
a fee of $250 for the same each calendar year before operations may begin.
   (C)   The facilities and physical plant used by palmists and fortune tellers
shall meet the following requirements prior to its beginning of operation and
during its operation:
      (1)   All building codes;
      (2)   All standards of safety;
      (3)   Operation shall be restricted to the first floor of a one-story
building; or
      (4)   There shall be a large plate glass window along the entire front of
said building which shall be undraped and the whole interior of said building
shall be able to be seen through by looking into said plate glass window.
   (D)   (1)   Prior to the operation of said facility, the operation and plant
shall be inspected by:
         (a)   The Fire Chief;
         (b)   The Police Chief; and
         (c)   The City Council en masse.
      (2)   Further, each facility shall be reasonably inspected by those
stated in division (D)(1) above at reasonable times during its operation at the
discretion of City Council without a search warrant.
      (3)   In the event a search warrant is demanded of the city or its
designated officials by the operator (licensee) at any reasonable inspection,
the operator’s license shall be revoked and said business shall cease.
   (E)   All operators and employees of the defined occupations as listed in
division (A) above must be approved as to competence and reputation by a
certificate of the City Police Department.
   (F)   (1)   In the event the operator or any employee of the defined
occupations is found to have a criminal record or be a mental defective, said
operator must petition City Council for approval of his or her license prior to
the beginning operations in the city.
      (2)   In the event of the above, the City Council has, by this section,
the power to refuse a license to any person or stop the operation due to any
operator or employee not approved if the City Council finds by unanimous vote
that the health, safety, or welfare of its citizens would probably be
jeopardized by said individuals.
   (G)   Each operator of the defined facility, in addition to the license
required herein, shall post a $5,000 cash bond or approved surety with the City
Clerk/Treasurer prior to beginning operation to ensure compliance with the laws
of this city.
   (H)   The defined occupation shall be restricted to daytime operation only;
and said facility may not operate during the hours from dusk until dawn, and no
person may occupy said facilities except a caretaker during the nighttime.
   (I)   The defined facility and occupation may not use a sign proclaiming the
defined activity in any manner which is larger than 12 inches by 18 inches,
said sign to be at least 50 feet from the center of any roadway or public
right-of-way, said sign to be at all times unlighted and no luminous paint or
reflectors shall be used on said sign.
   (J)   Each operator and/or palmist or fortune teller operating under this
section shall have a certificate of instruction and training by a bona fide
authentic palm reading or fortune telling educational institution, and said
diploma or certificate shall be prominently displayed in the physical plant at
all times.
   (K)   Except for palmists and fortune tellers operating under this section,
said occupations shall be hereafter unlawful in the city.
(2010 Code, § 113.02) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 HOTELS AND MOTELS TO POST RATES; REQUIRE GUEST REGISTRATION.
   (A)   All motel/hotel owners, operators, and his, her, or their agents shall
cause to be made a notice, posting the room rates and check-out time in the
office and in each rentable room in a conspicuous place.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the motel/hotel owners, operators, and his,
her, or their agents to obtain the signature of each guest/renter’s legal name
and have said guest/renter sign a registration book which shall be kept in the
office and shall be available upon demand for inspection by any agent of the
city. It shall be required that the hotel/motel owner, operator, or his, her,
or their agent require reasonable identification of each guest/renter and that
said name on the registration book match the individual guest/renter.
(2010 Code, § 113.03) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 REGULATION OF SECURITY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, partnership,
association, corporation, or business entity or agent or employee thereof to
solicit, sell, install, or service a home or business security system or
devices in the city:
      (1)   Without first notifying the Chief of Police and providing him or
her with the name, address, date of birth, and Social Security number of all
agents, solicitors, and employees of their organization; or
      (2)   The Chief of Police shall maintain a register of the names and
addresses of all such persons, associations, corporations, business entities,
and of any employee or agent and/or an agent of process in the commonwealth if
such persons, associations, corporations, business entities, and/or any
employee and/or agent of process are not a residents of the commonwealth.
   (B)   (1)   No person or persons, partnership, association, corporation, or
business entity or agent or employee thereof, so registered as provided in
division (A) above, shall engage in the business of soliciting, selling, or
servicing, home or business security systems in the city, until such person or
persons, partnerships, associations, or other business entity, and each agent
or employee thereof who does such business in the city, have been issued an
occupational license. Such occupational license shall be issued by the City
Clerk/Treasurer. Such occupational license will be issued upon payment of a fee
of $25 and upon the completing of an application form under oath.
      (2)   A separate permit is required for each residence or business
premises wherein a security system or device is to be installed or services.
      (3)   The Police Chief may cause an investigation to be made of each
person or persons, associations, corporations, or business entity, or agent or
employee thereof included in the sworn application.
      (4)   In the event the Chief of Police conducts an investigation of the
persons and entities registered with this office and/or investigates the
information contained in the sworn application, he or she shall advise any
citizen, resident, or buyer of security devices or services of the results of
his or her investigation. The Chief of Police shall also advise the citizens,
residents, or buyers of security devices or services that the consumer
protection statute of the commonwealth provides for an automatic three- day
cancellation by notifying said persons, companies, or entities in writing of
their cancellation within three days of the sale.
(2010 Code, § 113.04) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 REGULATION OF GARAGE SALES, ATTIC SALES, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GARAGE SALE, LAWN SALE, ATTIC SALE, RUMMAGE SALE, or FLEA MARKET SALE.
Any sale of tangible personal property not otherwise regulated in the city’s
ordinances, advertised by any means whereby the public at large is or can be
made aware of such sale.
      GOODS. Any goods, warehouse merchandise, or other property capable of
being the object of a sale regulated hereunder.
   (B)   License required. A license issued by the City Clerk/Treasurer shall
be obtained by any person, firm, group, corporation, company, or organization
before selling or offering to sell any goods at a sale to be advertised or held
out by any means to be one of the types of sales enumerated in division (A)
above.
   (C)   Application for license.
      (1)   An application for a license for any of the sales regulated
hereunder shall be made at the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer or a form to
be provided therefor, which application shall contain the following
information:
         (a)   Name of the person, firm, group, corporation, company,
association, or organization conducting said sale;
         (b)   Location at which said sale is to be conducted and the date and
nature of any prior sales conducted at the same location;
         (c)   The dates during which said sale is to be conducted within the
time limits hereinafter prescribed;
         (d)   Date, nature, and location of any past sale conducted by
applicant; and
         (e)   The relationship or connection applicant may have had with any
other person, firm, group, organization, association, corporation, or company
conducting any such sale and the date or dates of such sale.
      (2)   A license fee of $5 shall be paid to the city at the time an
initial application is made during any 12-month period for such license. A
license fee in the amount of $25 shall be paid to the city at the time a second
application is made during any such 12-month period for such license by any
person, firm, group, corporation, company, or organization or a member of the
initial applicant’s family or household. Not more than two licenses described
and permitted by this section may be issued to any one residence or business
address within the city within a 12-month period. The 12-month period shall be
considered as a fiscal period with each applicant beginning with its first
application and license permit.
   (D)   Conditions of license.
      (1)   No person shall conduct, advertise, or promote any sale regulated
by this section without a license issued pursuant thereto.
      (2)   No sign advertising a sale regulated by this section shall be
placed on public property or on private property without the express consent of
the owner. Within 24 hours after the conclusion of a sale, all signs shall be
removed.
      (3)   No license shall be issued authorizing any such sale to be
conducted for a period longer than two days.
      (4)   This license authorizing such sale shall be displayed in the front
window or other prominent place, clearly visible from the street at each
location where a sale is being conducted.
   (E)   Persons and sales excepted. The provisions of this section shall not
apply to or affect the following persons or sales:
      (1)   Persons selling goods pursuant to an order or process of a court of
competent jurisdiction;
      (2)   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials;
      (3)   Any person selling or advertising for sale an item or items of
personal property which are specifically named or described in the
advertisement and which separate items do not exceed eight in number;
      (4)   Any publisher of a newspaper, magazine, or other publication or
other communication media who publishes or broadcasts in good faith without
knowledge of its false, deceptive, or misleading character or without knowledge
that the provisions of the city ordinances have not been complied with;
      (5)   Any sale regulated under any other provisions of the ordinances of
the city;
      (6)   Any sale conducted by any merchant or mercantile or other business
establishment from or at a place of business wherein such sale would be
permitted by the zoning regulations of the city for under the protection of the
presently nonconforming section thereof, or any other sale conducted by a
manufacturer, dealer, or vendor, and which sale would be conducted from
properly-zoned premises and not otherwise prohibited in the ordinances of the
city; or
      (7)   Any bona fide charitable, eleemosynary, education, cultural, or
governmental institution or organization, provided, however, that the burden of
establishing the exemption under this division (E)(7) shall be on the
organization or institution claiming such exemption.
(2010 Code, § 113.05) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 SALE OF JEWELRY, COINS, PRECIOUS STONES, AND METALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of all persons dealing in the purchase or
exchange of secondhand or antique jewelry, coins, watches, diamonds, or other
precious stones, cutlery, gold, silver, platinum, or other precious metals, or
any other secondhand manufactured articles, composed wholly or in part of gold,
silver, platinum, or other precious metals to keep a daily register of every
article purchased or exchanged by them in the course of his, her, or their
business and the persons from whom such articles were acquired. Said register
shall contain as minute a description of each article as is possible, including
any identification numbers and the manufacturer’s name, as well as the name,
age, sex, race, address, driver’s license number, Social Security number, a
general description of the individual or individuals selling or exchanging the
articles, and his, her, or their signatures.
   (B)   All persons engaged in business, as described in division (A) above,
shall furnish to the City Chief of Police upon request at the police office by
11:00 a.m., a copy of the register for all transactions that took place during
the preceding day.
   (C)   All persons engaged in business, as described in division (A) above,
shall retain every article received by them in the same state or condition in
which it was received, and all articles received during any one day’s
transaction shall be kept separately and shall not be commingled with articles
received during any other day’s transactions. Furthermore, all articles shall
be made available for examination within the city to members of the City Police
Department, and the Sheriff’s Department, State Police, County Police, or other
law enforcement official, state or federal, for a period of five consecutive
days after their receipt, before such articles are resold or exchanged, unless
written permission is obtained from the City Chief of Police.
   (D)   No person engaged in business, as described in division (A), above
shall purchase or exchange secondhand or antique jewelry, coins, watches,
diamonds, or other precious stones, cutlery, or gold, silver, platinum, or
other precious metals, or other secondhand manufactured articles composed
wholly or in part of gold, silver, platinum, or other precious metals unless
the person first obtains a photograph of the seller or exchanger of the above
enumerated items. The photograph is to be identified in such a way that the
person or persons shown in the photograph can be identified with every entry of
the register identified in division (A) above. The photograph and register
shall be maintained for a period of one year after the date on which the
transaction occurred.
   (E)   No person engaged in business, as described in division (A) above,
shall purchase or exchange secondhand or antique jewelry, coins, watches,
diamonds, or other precious stones, cutlery, or gold, silver, platinum, or
other precious metals, or any other secondhand manufactured articles composed
wholly or in part of gold, silver, platinum ,or other precious metals from any
person less than 18 years of age.
   (F)   Nothing contained herein shall require a compliance of divisions (A)
through (E) above by a person engaging in business within the city who
possesses a current business license from the city and is accepting returns for
cash, credit, or replacement of any item originally purchased from said person.
   (G)   The violation of any of the duties, requirements, or prohibitions
contained in divisions (A) through (E) above shall be punishable as a Class A
misdemeanor as defined by Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (H)   The city declares that an emergency exists due to the increase in
thefts of certain jewelry, coins, precious stones, and metals occurring in the
city area and, further, that the current provisions of the laws are inadequate
to provide law enforcement officials with sufficient information and authority
to control the flow of stolen articles through certain businesses referred to
herein above.
(2010 Code, § 113.06) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 LICENSE FEE FOR ELECTRONIC AMUSEMENT GAMES AND DEVICES.
   (A)   Short title. This section shall be known and may be referred to as the
“Electronic Amusement Games and Devices License and Regulation Ordinance of the
City of Park Hills”.
   (B)   Definitions; tense; gender.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         BUSINESS PREMISES. Any place that is required to purchase and display
an occupational license from the City of Park Hills.
         ELECTRONIC AMUSEMENT GAMES AND DEVICES. All electronic games and any
other similar amusement devices; whether coin-operated or operated by remote
control.
         PERSON. Association of persons, firms, companies, or corporations.
      (2)   Tense; gender. Wherever used and found herein, the singular shall
include the plural, the masculine shall include the feminine.
   (C)   Annual license fee. There is hereby levied and established an annual
license fee of $10 per electronic amusement game or device located on any
business premises.
   (D)   Purpose for which license fee imposed. The license fees levied by this
section shall be used together with other funds to defray the cost of
inspection of said machine to ensure compliance with regulations, and the
general expense of maintaining the city government. The fees collected pursuant
hereto shall be placed in the General Fund for the aforesaid purposes.
   (E)   License certificate. Any person desiring to place an electronic
amusement game or device on his or her business premises in the city shall make
application to the City Clerk/Treasurer or City Police Chief, and upon payment
of the appropriate fee, the City Clerk/Treasurer or Police Chief shall
thereupon issue to such applicant a license certificate authorizing him or her
to place such amusement device on his or her business premises; provided that
the regulations hereinafter promulgated are strictly complied with. All license
certificates issued hereunder shall be in a form approved by City Council.
   (F)   Regulations for placement of electronic amusement games and devices on
business premises.
      (1)   All electronic amusement games or devices located on business
premises within the city shall be placed at least 15 feet from the main
entrance or exit of said premises to ensure safe, clear exits in case of
emergency evacuation.
      (2)   All electronic amusement games or devices located on business
premises within the city shall be placed so as to have at least four feet
clearance on all sides; except where such game or device is located against a
wall, in which case a four-foot clearance on three sides will be sufficient.
      (3)   There shall be a maximum of three such games or devices permitted
upon each business premises, each of which shall be separately licensed.
      (4)   All electronic amusement games and devices located on business
premises within the city shall be separately licensed, and the license
certificate shall be attached or affixed thereon, which license shall not be
removed nor transferred except upon application to the City Clerk/Treasurer or
Chief of Police upon a form prescribed by the city.
      (5)   All businesses within the city that have electronic amusement games
and devices located on their premises shall, upon request, permit inspection of
such machine by police officers or firefighters to ensure compliance with all
regulations.
      (6)   Pinball machines shall also be included in determining the maximum
allowable number of games and devices permitted under this section.
      (7)   All electronic amusement games and devices located on business
premises within the city shall be used for amusement purposes only. Any form of
wagering or gambling by use of such games and devices is prohibited.
   (G)   Date fee payable and duration of license. All license fees shall be
due and payable on the first day of June of each calendar year and that the fee
established herein shall be for one full-year and extending through May 31 of
the following year; except that for any license issued after June 1 of a
particular year, the fee shall be computed on a pro-rata monthly basis based
upon the number of months remaining in that year’s months.
   (H)   Quiet, peaceful, lawful operation. Any person having an electronic
amusement game or device located on his or her premises shall have a duty to
ensure that users of said game or device shall maintain peace and decorum at
all times. It shall be unlawful for any licensee to permit any loud,
boisterous, or obscene conversation, any noise or nuisance, any lewd, indecent,
or immoral acts or gestures, any disorderly conduct, or any unlawful act by
users or spectators of such games or devices.
   (I)   Penalty for delinquency. Any fee unpaid when due, and remaining unpaid
for 30 days thereafter shall have added thereto a penalty of 10% and interest
on the principal sum at the rate of 8% per annum from the due date until paid.
(2010 Code, § 113.07) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, employee, agent, or corporation violating §
111.02 may be fined not less than $50 per offense per day and/or six months in
the County Jail per offense for each violation.
(2010 Code, § 113.02)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
111.03 shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $500 and be imprisoned in
the County Jail not more than six months.
(2010 Code, § 113.03)
   (D)   Any person found guilty of violation of any of the provisions of §
111.04 shall be fined in a sum not more than $500 and the costs of prosecution.
(2010 Code, § 113.04)
   (E)   Any person, firm, group, corporation, or company violating any of the
provisions of §
111.05 shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than
$10 nor more than $100.
(2010 Code, § 113.05)
   (F)   (1)   Any person having an electronic amusement, game, or device
located on his or her business premises without having first obtained a license
therefor shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined a sum of not less than $25 nor more than $200. Upon conviction
of any violation, in addition to the penalties aforesaid, the City Clerk/
Treasurer or the Police Chief may, and each are hereby authorized, to revoke
said license which can only be reinstated by the City Council.
      (2)   Any conviction pursuant to the division (F)(1) above and the
imposition of a penalty thereunder shall not excuse any person from the payment
of the established fee or tax due and unpaid at the time of such conviction,
nor shall it act as a bar in any civil action brought to effect the recovery of
such fee, penalty, and interest.
(2010 Code, § 113.07)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
112.01   Incorporation of laws of the commonwealth
   
112.02   Prohibition; licenses required
   
112.03   Classes of licenses
   
112.04   Restrictions upon retail transactions
   
112.05   State permit
   
112.06   Part-time licenses
   
112.07   Conditions for issuance of licenses
   
112.08   Revocation
   
112.09   Applications for licenses; time for filing; approval by City Council
   
112.10   Use of funds
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 INCORPORATION OF LAWS OF THE COMMONWEALTH.
   The provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Laws as passed by the
Kentucky General Assembly under KRS Title 20, and also all acts amendatory
thereof and supplementary thereto, relating to the manufacture, sale,
transportation, possession, or other disposition of spirituous, vinous, or malt
liquors are adopted as a portion of this chapter insofar as applicable and
except as otherwise lawfully provided for by this chapter or any city ordinance
of the city.
(2010 Code, § 114.01)
§ 112.02 PROHIBITION; LICENSES REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall vend, sell, deal, or traffic in, or
for the purpose of evading any law or ordinance, give away any spirituous,
vinous, or malt liquor in any quantity whatsoever, or cause the same to be
done, without having procured a license as provided in this chapter, nor
without complying with all the provisions of this chapter, and all statutes,
regulations, and ordinances applicable thereto.
(2010 Code, § 114.02) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 CLASSES OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Wholesaler’s distilled spirits and wine license. A wholesaler’s
distilled spirits and wine license when issued by the city, under authority of
the City Council, shall permit its holders to sell, deal, and traffic in
intoxicating liquors only in cases or gallons to persons holding a quota retail
package liquor license or a quota retail drink license. The fee of such
wholesaler’s distilled spirits and wine license shall be $1,500 per year.
   (B)   Quota retail package liquor license. A quota retail package liquor
license when issued by the city, under authority of the City Council, shall
permit its holder to sell at retail, wine, or spirituous liquors in unbroken
packages for consumption off the premises. The fee for such quota retail
package liquor license shall be $500 per year.
   (C)   Quota retail drink license. A quota retail drink license when issued
by the city, under authority of the City Council, shall authorize the holder
thereof to purchase, receive, possess, and sell distilled spirits and wine at
retail by the glass for consumption on the licensed premises. The fee for such
quota retail drink license shall be $500 per year. All licenses issued
hereunder shall permit the licensee to sell malt beverages for consumption on
the premises in addition to the distilled spirits and wine without further fee.
   (D)   Non-quota type 4 retail malt beverage drink license. A non-quota type
4 retail malt beverage drink license when issued by the city, under authority
of the City Council, shall permit its holder to dispense and sell malt liquors
by drink. The fee for such non-quota type 4 malt beverage drink license shall
be $25 per year.
   (E)   Non-quota retail malt beverage package license. A license issued by
the city, under authority of the City Council under this section, shall permit
its holder to sell any malt liquor or beverages to consumers in unbroken
package form, and said malt beverages shall not be consumed upon the premises,
and the license for such shall be $100 per year.
   (F)   Special Sunday retail drink license. A license when issued by the
city, under authority of the City Council, shall authorize the holder thereof
to purchase, receive, possess, and sell distilled spirits and wine at retail by
the glass for consumption on the licensed premises. The fee for such special
Sunday retail drink license shall be $300 per year. All licenses issued
hereunder shall permit the licensee to sell malt beverages for consumption on
the premises in addition to distilled spirits and wine without further fee. All
sales of distilled spirits and wine, and malt beverages by the drink, are
governed by and limited to the hours of operation established herein. The
entitlements of a special Sunday retail drink license include the right to sell
distilled spirits and wine and malt beverages at retail by the glass only
during the hours of operation established by this chapter.
(2010 Code, § 114.03)
   (G)   Non-quota malt beverage license holders able to purchase other non-
quota malt beverage licenses. The holder of a non-quota retail malt beverage
package license may obtain a non-quota type 4 retail malt beverage drink
license for a fee of $50. The holder of a non-quota type 4 retail malt beverage
drink license may obtain a non-quota retail malt beverage package license for a
fee of $50.
(Ord 3, 2014, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 112.04 RESTRICTIONS UPON RETAIL TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm, company, or corporation shall engage in the business
of retail liquor dispenser, retail drink dispenser of distilled spirits or
wine, or malt liquor or beverage dispenser without first having obtained a
license for each stand, place, room, or enclosure or for each suite of rooms of
enclosures, and no license shall be issued to any person, firm, company, or
corporation for the purpose of operating the business of retail liquor
dispenser, retail drink dispenser of distilled spirits, or wine or beverage
dispenser in any dwelling house, flat, or apartment house. The licensee shall
at all times be personally responsible for the proper operation of the business
of retail liquor dispenser, retail drink dispenser of distilled spirits or
wine, or malt liquor or beverage dispenser conducted in such place and for the
observance of all the laws and ordinances applicable thereto anyone engaged in
or connected with said business.
   (B)   Whenever any person, firm, company, or corporation shall desire to
engage in the business of retail liquor dispenser, retail drink dispenser of
distilled spirits or wine, or malt liquor or beverage dispenser by selling
beverages in any house in the city for consumption on the premises, such
person, firm, company, or corporation shall first apply to the City Council, by
a written application for a license, which application shall set forth the name
and residence of the applicant and shall represent that such applicant is of
good reputation and is a law-abiding citizen and shall be signed by such
applicant and at least ten freeholders residing in or owning real estate in the
voting precinct in which said sales are proposed to be made. It shall, in
addition thereto, be signed by the owner, or his or her agent, of the premises
wherein said sales are to be made, signifying his or her consent, whereupon, if
the City Council is satisfied that said license should be granted, it shall
pass an order to that effect, and thereupon the City Clerk/Treasurer shall
issue to the applicant, a retail liquor dispenser, retail drink dispenser of
distilled spirits or wine, or malt liquor or beverage dispenser license.
   (C)   When a license shall have been granted and issued under the provisions
of this chapter, the person, firm, company, or corporation to whom the same is
granted and issued shall cause same, or in case of loss or destruction, a copy
thereof, to be kept or placed in some conspicuous place in the room where said
beverages are sold, in such a manner as to enable same to be conveniently read,
and so to remain during the period for which said license shall be granted.
   (D)   No part of any money paid into the City Treasury for any retail
package liquor, retail drink of distilled spirits or wine, or malt liquor or
beverage drink or package license provided herein, shall be refunded to the
licensee, nor shall said license be transferred from one person to another, or
from one place to another, except by obtaining the necessary signatures, as
provided for in the applications for original license, and which application
for transfer shall be filed with the City Council, which may authorize the said
transfer to be made. A fee of $5 shall be charged for all transfers of licenses
as provided for in this chapter; provided, however, that no transfer shall be
made of any license issued under this chapter except upon approval by the State
Alcohol Board of Control of such transfer where said Board has control of same
under the provisions of the Kentucky Revised Statutes. Any transfer or renewal
of any license after the effective date of this chapter shall be governed by
all fees set out above. All other terms of this chapter shall become effective
immediately with the effective date of this chapter.
   (E)   All retail liquor dispenser, retail drink dispenser of distilled
spirits or wine, or malt liquor or beverage dispenser licenses granted under
this chapter shall be upon the express condition that said licensee shall not
allow any improper, lewd, riotous, or disorderly conduct in such place, or
conduct a disorderly house, and shall not sell or permit the sale of any
alcoholic beverages not authorized under the terms of this chapter or otherwise
permitted by law, on his or her premises, or in connection with this business
or otherwise. For any violation of any of the above conditions, said license
may be revoked by the City Council, and said regulations may be modified from
time to time as said Council deems necessary to carry out the purpose and
intent of this chapter.
   (F)   The room in which said beverages are sold shall be so arranged, either
with transparent glass windows or doors, so that the whole of said room may be
in view from the street or public thoroughfare, or passageway, and no blinds,
screens, or other obstructions shall be arranged so as to prevent such view
from the street, highway, or public passway.
(2010 Code, § 114.04) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 STATE PERMIT.
   No license herein provided for shall be granted, issued, or sold to any
person, firm, company, or corporation until such person, firm, company, or
corporation shall have obtained from the commonwealth, and its duly constituted
agencies, a permit and/or a license as provided for under KRS Title 20 or any
amendments thereto.
(2010 Code, § 114.05) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 PART-TIME LICENSES.
   Licenses may be granted under the provisions of this chapter for the
fractional part of a year, but in no event for less than three months, upon
payment of such proportion of the annual license fee as the number of months or
fraction of a month remaining, until May 31, bears to 12.
(2010 Code, § 114.06)
§ 112.07 CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Every applicant procuring a license thereby consents to the entry of
police or other duly authorized representatives of the city at all reasonable
hours for the purpose of inspection and search, and consents to the removal
from said premises of all things and articles there found in violation of city
ordinances or state laws, and consents to the introduction of such things and
articles in evidence in any prosecution that may be brought for such offenses.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation holding a license under the provisions
of this chapter shall sell any alcoholic liquor behind blinds or screens, but
such sales shall be conducted openly and without any attempt to hide it or
screen it from public view.
   (C)   Each licensed premises shall at all times be conducted in an orderly
manner and no disorderly, riotous, or indecent conduct shall be allowed at any
time on any licensed premises.
   (D)   No violations of law shall be permitted in any form upon the licensed
premises.
   (E)   There shall be no treating by the licensee at any time.
   (F)   No alcoholic beverage shall be sold to any minors and such conviction
shall be cause for the revocation of any license issued to said person or
persons by the city.
   (G)   (1)   No licensed premises within the city shall be permitted to
remain open for any purpose licensed herein between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and
6:00 a.m., local prevailing time.
         (a)   No distilled spirits or wine may be sold within the city between
the hours of 2:30 a.m. Sunday, local prevailing time, and 6:00 a.m. Monday,
local prevailing time.
         (b)   Malt beverages by package shall not be sold between the hours of
1:00 a.m. Sunday and 1:00 p.m. Sunday, local prevailing time.
      (2)   The following exceptions apply.
         (a)   Those premises which have obtained a special Sunday retail drink
license may remain open between the hours of 1:00 p.m. Sunday and 2:30 a.m.
Monday, local prevailing time, and may sell distilled liquor by the drink or
wine by the drink.
         (b)   Upon any regular, special, or primary election day during voting
hours, no spirituous, vinous, or malt liquors shall be sold or dispensed,
whether by drink or by package.
         (c)   Licensed premises holding a current malt liquor package license
may sell malt liquor not exceeding 6% alcohol by volume on Sunday between the
hours of 1:00 p.m. and 2:30 a.m. Monday, local prevailing time.
(2010 Code, § 114.07)
§ 112.08 REVOCATION.
   A violation of this chapter or any of the provisions of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes referred to in §
112.01 by a duly authorized agent or employee of a license or permit holder
shall constitute a violation of the license or permit, and whenever the holder
of any license or permit under this chapter violates any portion of this
chapter or any regulation adopted pursuant thereto, the City Council may cancel
or revoke such license.
(2010 Code, § 114.08) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.09 APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES; TIME FOR FILING; APPROVAL BY CITY COUNCIL.
   All applications for licenses provided for under this chapter shall be upon
forms as prescribed and approved by the City Clerk/Treasurer, and such
applications shall be filed with the City Clerk/Treasurer. The City Council
shall review and approve transfers of licenses. After January 1, 2017, all
licenses shall be valid for a period of no more than one year and shall be
renewable upon the date established by the Kentucky Department of Alcohol
Beverage Control for the expiration of state licenses for premises located in
Kenton County.
(2010 Code, § 114.10) (Ord. 20, 2016, passed 12-12-2016)
§ 112.10 USE OF FUNDS.
   All money derived from the collection of license taxes, fines, and the like,
herein provided for, shall be paid into and become a part of the General Fund
of the city.
(2010 Code, § 114.11)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any owner, manager, operator, person, corporation, company, or licensee, who
itself, or by his, her, or their agents or employees violates any of the
provisions of this chapter or any of the provisions of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes referred to in §
112.01, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not more than
$100, besides the costs, or, in lieu of such fine, by imprisonment in jail not
more than 50 days, and in case of punishment by fine, unless the fine and costs
be paid forthwith, shall be commuted to the County Jail until paid or until
discharged by due course of law, or such penalties by fine or imprisonment as
may be provided for under the provisions of the Kentucky Revised Statutes
referred to in §
112.01; and in case of a second or subsequent conviction by the same persons
during any year, the punishment shall be both by fine and imprisonment, and
such conviction shall be cause for the revocation of any license issued to said
person or persons by the city.
(2010 Code, § 114.09)
CHAPTER 113: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
113.01   Imposition of license fee
   
113.02   Amount of fee for companies issuing life insurance
   
113.03   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
113.04   Due date; interest and refunds
   
113.05   Written breakdown of collections
Statutory reference:
   Adjustments for overpayment, underpayment, or nonpayment, see KRS 91A.0804
§ 113.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city, on a calendar-year basis.
§ 113.02 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING LIFE INSURANCE.
   The license fee or tax imposed by a city upon each insurance company with
respect to life insurance policies may be based upon the first year’s premiums,
and if so based, shall be applied to the amount of the premiums actually
collected within each calendar quarter upon the lives of persons residing
within the corporate limits of the city.
(KRS 91A.080(2))
§ 113.03 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   (A)   The license fee or tax imposed upon each insurance company with
respect to any policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be based upon
the premiums actually collected by the insurance company within each calendar
quarter on risks located within the corporate limits of the city on those
classes of business which the insurance company is authorized to transact, less
all premiums returned to policyholders.
(KRS 91A.080(3))
   (B)   The license fee or tax shall also not apply to premiums:
      (1)   Received on policies of group health insurance provided for state
employees under KRS 18A.225;
      (2)   Received on policies insuring employers against liability for
personal injuries to their employees or the death of their employees caused
thereby, under the provisions of KRS Chapter 342;
      (3)   Received on health insurance policies issued to individuals;
      (4)   Received on policies issued through Kentucky Access created in
Subtitle 17B of KRS Chapter 304;
      (5)   Received on policies for high deductible health plans as defined in
26 U.S.C. § 223(c)(2);
      (6)   Received on multi-state surplus lines, defined as non-admitted
insurance as provided in Title V, Subtitle B, the Non-Admitted and Reinsurance
Reform Act of 2010, of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act, Pub. L. No. 111-203; or
      (7)   Paid to insurance companies or surplus lines brokers by nonprofit
self-insurance groups or self-insurance entities whose membership consists of
cities, counties, charter county governments, urban-county governments,
consolidated local governments, unified local governments, school districts, or
any other political subdivisions of the commonwealth.
(KRS 91A.080(10))
   (C)    No license fee or tax imposed under this section shall apply to
premiums paid to insurers of municipal bonds, leases, or other debt instruments
issued by or on behalf of a city, county, charter county government, urban-
county government, consolidated local government, special district, nonprofit
corporation, or other political subdivision of the Commonwealth. However, this
exemption shall not apply if the bonds, leases, or other debt instruments are
issued for profit or on behalf of for-profit or private organizations.
(KRS 91A.080(13))
§ 113.04 DUE DATE; INTEREST AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30
days after the end of each calendar quarter.
(KRS 91A.080(8))
   (B)   (1)   Any insurance company or agent that overpays any license fee or
tax to a city shall be refunded the amount overpaid. If it is determined that
an insurance company or agent paid a license fee or tax to a city based upon
premiums collected upon lives or risks which are discovered to be located
outside the legal corporate limits of the city which was paid the license fee
or tax, the insurance company or agent shall be refunded those license fees and
taxes within 90 days of notice to the city paid.
      (2)   License fees which are not paid on or before the due date shall
bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in KRS 131.010(6) from the
date due until paid.
(KRS 91A.080(9))
§ 113.05 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city with a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(KRS 91A.080(8))
CHAPTER 114: SALE OF FIREWORKS
Section
   
114.01   Definition
   
114.02   Unlawful acts
   
114.03   Special permissions for purchase of fireworks
   
114.04   Exemptions
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITION.
   The term FIREWORKS as used in this chapter shall mean all rockets, roman
candles, bombs, balloons, wheels, and other substances and devices for
pyrotechnic display; all firecrackers, blank cartridges, torpedoes, and
concussion canes, pistols, and other devices for the explosion of powder caps,
or cartridges; or any other substance designed or intended to produce a visible
or audible pyrotechnic effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration, or
detonation, except sparklers, blacksnakes, colored fires, and nonexplosive
novelties.
(2010 Code, § 97.01)
§ 114.02 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, company, or corporation to
offer for sale at retail or to sell at retail, to loan, barter, deliver, or
give within the city any fireworks as defined in §
114.01, except to holders of permits as provided in §
114.03.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, company, or corporation to
purchase at retail, use, fire, set off, discharge, set in motion, or ignite
within the limits of the city any fireworks as described in §
114.01, except as provided in §
114.03.
(2010 Code, § 97.02) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 SPECIAL PERMISSIONS FOR PURCHASE OF FIREWORKS.
   Special permission may be granted to persons, firms, companies, or
corporations for the purchase of fireworks as described in §
114.01 and their use at a public gathering, provided an application is filed
with the City Council setting forth the name of the applicant, and the time and
the place of the exhibition. The City Council, upon being satisfied that the
applicant will use the fireworks in a public exhibition, and that all
reasonable precautions will be exercised with regard to the protection of the
lives and property of all persons, may issue a permit which shall permit the
use of fireworks at the time and place set out in the application.
(2010 Code, § 97.03)
§ 114.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   Street railway, bus, or trucking companies shall be exempt from the
provisions of this chapter as to the use of torpedoes and torches commonly used
as safety devices in the operation of cars, buses, or trucks.
(2010 Code, § 91.05)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, company, or corporation violating any of the provisions of
§
114.02 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense.
(2010 Code, § 91.04)
CHAPTER 115: FRANCHISE FEES
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Franchise fees
   
115.03   Purpose and use of fees
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Park Hills, Kentucky, a municipal corporation, political
subdivision, and city of the fourth class, its successors and assigns.
   PERSON. Natural persons, corporations, companies, partnerships, joint
ventures, unincorporated associations, or any combinations thereof.
(2010 Code, § 117.01)
§ 115.02 FRANCHISE FEES.
   As the fee for his or her franchises with the city, every person having a
franchise with the city for the use of the public ways and grounds of the city
for the transmission and distribution of gas and electricity shall pay to the
City Clerk/Treasurer, within 30 days of the receipt thereof, 0.75% of the gross
receipts collected by such person from customers from the sale of gas and
electricity within the corporate limits of the city. The fee shall be
applicable to bills rendered to customers on and after June 1, 2010.
(2010 Code, § 117.02)
§ 115.03 PURPOSE AND USE OF FEES.
   The purpose of the franchise fees imposed and levied by this chapter is to
fund the general operating expenses of the city. All fees and other sums
received by the city pursuant to this chapter shall be deposited in the General
Fund of the city, and appropriated and used for the general operating expenses
thereof.
(2010 Code, § 117.03)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   REGISTRATION OF CONVICTED FELONS
CHAPTER 130: REGISTRATION OF CONVICTED FELONS
Section
   
130.01   Registration of convicted felons in the city
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 REGISTRATION OF CONVICTED FELONS IN THE CITY.
   (A)   Registration of criminals required. Every person entering into the
city and staying for a period of two weeks or more who has been convicted two
or more times in federal or state courts of offenses which are felonies under
the laws of the United States or of the commonwealth or state in which
committed, shall register with and furnish to the City Police Department a
written statement signed by him or her within 24 hours after having actual
notice or a reasonable opportunity to have actual notice, but in no event being
presumed to have notice of the requirements of this section.
   (B)   Exemption. Nothing in division (A) above shall be deemed or construed
to apply to any person who has received a pardon for each offense of which he
or she has been convicted.
   (C)   Information required for registration.
      (1)   Every person required to register under division (A) above shall
furnish the following information:
         (a)   His or her true name and every other name or alias by which he
or she is or has been known;
         (b)   A full and complete description of himself or herself;
         (c)   The name and degree of each offense of which he or she has been
convicted;
         (d)   The name of the place where each such offense was committed;
         (e)   The name under which he or she was convicted and the date of the
conviction;
         (f)   The name, if any, and location of each penal institution in
which he or she has been confined by way of punishment for each offense;
         (g)   The location or address used, or to be used by him or her, as a
residence, stopping place, or living quarters in the city, with a description
of the character of each such place, whether a hotel, apartment house, dwelling
house, or otherwise, giving the street number thereof, if any, or any
description of such place as shall so identify it as to make it possible of
location;
         (h)   The length of time he or she expects to remain within the city;
and
         (i)   Such other information as may be required by the City Police
Department for the purposes of aiding the City Police Department in carrying
out the provisions of division (A) above.
      (2)   Every person residing within the city who is required to register
with the City Police Department shall, in addition to the information required
to be furnished in accordance with division (C)(1) above also set forth the
occupation or employment in which he or she is engaged, the name of his or her
employer, the business in which the employer is engaged, and the nature and
character of the business.
   (D)   Photographs and fingerprints required. Every person registering in
accordance with division (A) above hereof shall be photographed and
fingerprinted by the City Police Department. The photograph and fingerprints
shall be made a part of the permanent records of the Police Department.
   (E)   Registration of convicts living outside the city limits.
      (1)   Every convicted person required to register under division (A)
above, except such persons as are referred to in division (E)(2) below, who
enters and remains in the city for 24 hours, shall, within three hours after
the expiration of such 24-hour period, furnish to the City Police Department, a
written statement in like form and containing all of the information required
by division (C) above and shall, in addition thereof, state in such statement
the date that he or she entered the state, and each of his or her places of
residence or abode for the three-month period next preceding the date of his or
her arrival in the city.
      (2)   Any convicted person who does not reside in the city, has a
temporary or permanent place of abode outside the city, and comes into or is
within the city limits on five or more occasions during any 30-day period,
shall be subject to the provisions of division (A) above and shall, immediately
upon entering the city on such fifth occasion, register with the City Police
Department and furnish the information and materials required by the provisions
of division (A) above.
   (F)   Providing false registration information. No person who is subject to
the provisions of division (A) above shall furnish in any statement or report a
false or fictitious address, or furnish any false, untrue, or misleading
information or statement relating to information required by this section.
   (G)   Change of address. In the event that any person required to register
in accordance with the provisions of division (A) above shall change his or her
place of residence, stopping place, or living quarters to a new or different
place within the city, he or she shall, within 24 hours after leaving the
registered location, notify the City Police Department of the change of address
by a new signed statement. The statement shall set forth his or her new
address. Similar notification shall be made in the case of additional changes
of address.
   (H)   Public notice of registration requirements. Notice of the requirement
to furnish a registration statement by this section shall be provided as
follows:
      (1)   By signs posted at the offices of the City Clerk/Treasurer and the
Police Department;
      (2)   By signs conspicuously posted at all transportation terminals;
      (3)   By signs conspicuously posted in all places serving alcoholic
beverages to the public; and
      (4)   By signs conspicuously posted at the place for registering at any
lodging house, hotel, or motel or, if no place for registering, then at the
entrance to any such lodging house, hotel, or motel. At the time of registering
or when the accommodations are let, the person letting the lodging shall notify
the person seeking the accommodations of the posted notice stipulating the
criminal registration requirement, and shall specifically point out the
location of such posted notice.
   (I)   Registration records confidential; exceptions.
      (1)   Registration statements, photographs, and fingerprints shall at all
times be kept by the City Police Department in a file separate and apart from
other files and records maintained and kept by the Police Department. The file
shall not be opened to inspection by the public or by any person other than a
member of the Police Department pursuant to police business.
      (2)   Any photograph may be exhibited to persons other than police
officers of the city for the purpose of assisting in identifying the
perpetrators of any crime.
      (3)   (a)   The City Police Department has authority to transmit copies
of registration statements, photographs, and fingerprints to the Sheriff of any
county in this state, to the head of any organized police department of a
municipality, or to the head of any state department engaged in the enforcement
of any criminal law of that state, or to the head of any federal law
enforcement agency when a request is made in writing by the head of the law
enforcement agency asking for the record of a certain person named therein or
for the record of a person whose photographs or fingerprints reasonably
correspond with photographs or fingerprints submitted with the request.
         (b)   The written request shall state that the record is deemed
necessary for the use of such law enforcement officer or agency for the
investigation of a crime or any person who is accused of committing a crime,
and shall further state that the record will be used only for that purpose.
(2010 Code, § 99.01) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine
of not less than $50 nor more than $500 or by imprisonment in the county jail
or other places of legal incarceration for not more than six months, or both
such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the County District Court.
(2010 Code, § 99.01)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
150.01   Zoning Code adopted by reference
   
150.02   Stormwater drains
   
150.03   International Property Maintenance Code
   
150.04   Sign regulations adopted by reference
§ 150.01 ZONING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s zoning regulations and any and all amendments are hereby adopted
by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2, 2012, passed 3-20-2012; Ord. 7, 2012, passed 8-13-2012; Ord. 14, 2012,
passed 10-8-2012; Ord. 2, 2013, passed 4-29-2013; Ord. 19, 2013, passed 11-21-
2013; Ord. 14, 2013, passed 12-9-2013; Ord. 19, 2013, passed 11-21-2013; Ord.
10, 2015, passed 6-8-2015; Ord. 19, 2015, passed 10-12-2015; Ord. 25, 2016,
passed 1-9-2017; Ord. 8, 2017, passed 5-8-2017; Ord. 12, 2017, passed 7-10-
2017; Ord. 18, 2017, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 8, 2020, passed 1-11-2021; Ord.
12, 2021, passed 9-13-2021; Ord. 1, 2022, passed 4-11-2022; Ord. 9, 2022,
passed 8-8-2022; Ord. 10, 2022, passed 11-14-2022)
§ 150.02 STORMWATER DRAINS.
   (A)   Upon application to the City Council upon a form to be provided by the
City Engineer and available at the City Clerk/Treasurer’s office, any person,
firm, company, or corporation owning property within the city upon which is
located a storm drain line, headwall, creek, ditch, or other facility for the
collection and disposition of stormwater, free from sanitary sewer water, may
request the city to assume responsibility for maintenance and repair of said
facility.
   (B)   City Council shall consider said request upon proof that said person,
firm, company, or corporation has made all repairs and construction deemed
necessary by the City Engineer at the applicant’s expense, and upon proof that
the applicant has paid an application fee of $200 to the city to cover the
expenses associated with the application procedure.
   (C)   Upon satisfactory proof before City Council of the above facts,
Council may, by a majority vote, accept responsibility for future maintenance
and repairs of the facility following receipt of a grant of easement for that
portion of the facility described in the easement.
   (D)   All costs associated with the initial construction and repairs to
bring the system into compliance and secure the approval of the City Engineer,
as well as all costs of preparing and recording the easement, shall be borne by
the applicant and shall be in addition to the application fee.
(2010 Code, § 53.01)
§ 150.03 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   The 2012 edition of the International Code Council’s International Property
Maintenance Code is adopted.
(Ord. 21, 2015, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 150.04 SIGN REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city's sign regulations, and any and all amendments thereto, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full. A copy of
the full sign regulations shall be maintained in the office of the City Clerk
for public inspection, and can also be accessed through the following link to
the city's website: https://www.parkhillsky.net/documents/ordinances/
ORD+18,+17.pdf.
(Ord. 18, 2017, passed 12-11-2017)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
TABLE I: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Approving the joint and cooperative program for self-
                     insurance, insurance, and the investment of public funds
-        - -         as set forth in the interlocal agreement to establish the
                     Kentucky Municipal Risk Management Association
                     (2010 Code, § 30.67)
                     Entering into the interlocal cooperation agreement known
-        - -         as the Telecommunications Board of Northern Kentucky
                     (2010 Code, § 35.01)
                     Adopting an interlocal agreement between the County Fiscal
                     Court and the Cities of Crescent Springs, Crestview Hills,
15, 2013 11-11-2013  Fort Wright, Kenton Vale, Ryland Heights, and Taylor Mill
                     for code enforcement in the county and to join the Joint
                     Code Enforcement Board as permitted by the interlocal
                     agreement
                     Agreement between the city and the Commonwealth of
1, 2014  1-13-2014   Kentucky, Transportation Cabinet, Department of Highways
                     for commencement of sidewalk project
                     Adopting an amended interlocal agreement between the
                     County Fiscal Court and the cities of Bromley, Crescent
8, 2021  7-12-2021   Springs, Crestview Hills, Edgewood, Elsmere, Fort Wright,
                     Independence, Kenton Vale, Lakeside Park, Ludlow, Park
                     Hills, Ryland Heights, Taylor Mill and Villa Hills for
                     code enforcement in the county
                    
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     A franchise granted to TKR Cable of Northern Kentucky to
                     construct, erect, install, maintain, operate, repair,
-        - -         replace, remove, or restore a cable television system to
                     provide cable service and provide a related institutional
                     network within the geographical limits of the city
                     (2010 Code, § 35.02)
                     A franchise agreement with Cincinnati Bell Extended
                     Territories, LLC to construct, erect, install, maintain,
-        - -         operate, repair, replace, remove, or restore a cable
                     television system to provide cable services within the
                     geographical limits of the city
                     (2010 Code, § 35.03)
                     A franchise agreement with MCI Metro Access Transmission
11, 2019 12-9-2019   Services Corp. dba Verizon Access Transmission Services
                     for telecommunication services
                     A franchise agreement with Cincinnati Bell Extended
                     Territories, LLC providing for the construction, erection,
13, 2021 11-8-2021   installation, upgrade, maintenance, repair and operation
                     of a cable television system for the provision of cable
                     television services in the city
                     A franchise agreement with Spectrum Mid-America, LLC,
                     providing for the construction, erection, installation,
9, 2023  9-25-2023   upgrade, repair, maintenance, and operation of a cable
                     television system for the provision of cable television
                     services within the city
                    
 
TABLE III: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
                       Approving a lease with the Bank of Kentucky, Inc. for
                       the refinancing of public projects, providing for the
6, 2012  3-20-2012   payment and security of the lease and deposits to a
                       Sinking Fund, authorizing the execution of various
                       documents related to such lease, and making certain
                       designations regarding such lease
                       Approving a lease with Heritage Bank, Inc. for the
                       refinancing of public projects, providing for the
7, 2017    3-20-2017   payment and security of the lease and deposits to a
                       Sinking Fund, authorizing the execution of various
                       documents related to such lease, and making certain
                       designations regarding such lease
                      
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to 2010 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS.Cites Code Section
KRS.Cites             Code Section
Ky. Const. 246        32.24,
                      32.40
6.955—6.975         33.004
15.420                91.31
18A.225               113.03
Title 20              112.01,
                      112.05
42.450—42.495       33.004
61                    32.36
61.300                90.10
61.826                32.36
61.870—61.884       30.036
61.870—61.884       31.087
61.872—61.884       31.035
62.8836               30.112
65                    31.017
65.003                31.017
65.210                31.085
                      30.100,
65.8801—65.8839     30.101,
                      30.110
65.8805(4)            91.23
65.8805(7)            91.16
65.8808(2)(b)         110.99
65.8811               30.104
65.8811(1)(a)         30.104
65.8811(1)(b)         30.104
65.8836               30.112
65.8840               91.23
65.8840(1)            91.11,
                      91.31
65.8840(6)            91.10
67.750—67.795       110.04
67.753                110.04
67.753(2)             110.04
67.753(3)             110.04
67.753(4)             110.04
70.290                30.085
81A.010               72.09
82.082                31.017,
                      110.01
82.600                72.10
82.600 —82.640      72.10
82.610                72.10
82.620                72.10
83A                   30.017
83A.010               30.001
83A.010(5)            10.02
83A.010(6)            10.02
83A.010(8)            10.02
83A.040(1)            30.015
83A.040(3)            30.016
83A.040(3)            30.016
83A.040(4)            30.016
83A.040(5)            30.016
83A.040(5)            30.015,
                      30.016
83A.040(6)            30.018
83A.060(1)            32.50
83A.060(2)            32.51
83A.060(3)            32.52
83A.060(4)            32.53
83A.060(7)            32.53
83A.060(5)            32.55
83A.060(6)            32.54
83A.060(8)            32.57
83A.060(9)            32.58
83A.060(11)           32.59
83A.060(12)           32.60
83A.060(13)           32.60
83A.060(14)           32.61
83A.060(15)           32.62
83A.065               10.99
83A.070(1)            30.055
83A.070(2)            30.056
83A.070(3)            30.057
83A.075               32.24,
                      32.40
                      30.036,
83A.080               30.039,
                      30.040,
                      31.018
83A.080(2)            30.035
83A.080(2)(a)         30.036
83A.080(3)            30.020
83A.080(4)            30.019
83A.085               30.036
83A.085(3)            30.036
83A.090               10.18
83A.130               32.01
83A.130(2)            32.02
83A.130(3)            32.15
83A.130(4)            32.16
83A.130(5)            32.17
83A.130(6)            32.18
83A.130(7)            32.19
83A.130(8)            32.21
83A.130(9)            32.22
83A.130(10)           32.23
83A.130(11)           32.35,
                      32.36
83A.130(12)           32.37,
                      32.38
83A.130(13)           32.39
83A.175(2)—(7)      30.017
91A                   33.003
91A.010               33.001
91A.010(8)            10.02
91A.020               33.002
91A.040               33.004
91A.060               33.005
91A.070(2)            33.012
91A.080(2)            113.02
91A.080(3)            113.03
91A.080(8)            113.04,
                      113.05
91A.080(9)            113.04
91A.080(10)           113.03
91A.080(13)           113.03
91A.0804              Ch. 113
91A.210               33.020
91A.220               33.021
91A.230               33.022
91A.240               33.023
91A.250               33.024
91A.260               33.025
91A.270               33.026
91A.280               33.027
91A.290               33.028
92.280                110.01
92.281                110.01
116 to 121            30.017
118                   30.017
121.180               30.017
131.010(6)            113.04
132.285               33.010
186.041               72.20
186.042               72.20
189                   70.02
189.456               72.20
218A.010—218A.14 44 91.31
222.202               91.31
224.1- .010(30)(A)(4) 91.11
227.300               91.12
227.320               91.12
227.450(9)            30.041
227.489               30.041
227.550               91.12
227.550(11)           91.11
258.215               90.15
278.010               52.08
304, Subtitle 17B     113.03
342                   113.03
403.763               91.31
                      30.021,
                      32.58,
424                   33.004,
                      33.024,
                      33.025,
                      91.23
424.200               33.004
446.010(1)            10.02
446.010(2)            10.02
446.010(9)            10.02
446.010(10)           10.02
446.010(12)           10.02
446.010(13)           10.02
446.010(14)           10.02
446.010(15)           10.02
446.010(17)           10.02
446.010(18)           10.02
446.010(23)           10.02
446.010(25)           10.02
446.010(26)           10.02
446.010(27)           10.02
446.010(28)           10.02
446.010(30)           10.02
446.010(31)           10.02
446.010(33)           10.02
446.010(37)           10.02
446.010(39)           10.02
446.010(43)           10.02
446.010(46)           10.02
446.010(47)           10.02
446.010(49)           10.02
446.010(55)           10.02
446.020(1)            10.03
446.020(2)            10.03
446.030               10.04
446.050               10.05
446.060               10.06
446.080(1)            10.03
446.080(3)            10.03
446.080(4)            10.03
446.090               10.07
446.100               10.08
446.110               10.09
507.020               91.31
507.030               91.31
507.040               91.31
507.050               91.31
508.010—508.160     91.31
511.010—511.090     91.31
512.010—512.060     91.31
513.010—513.040     91.31
514.010—514.090     91.31
514.110               91.31
515.010—515.030     91.31
525.055               91.31
525.060               91.31
525.070—525.080     91.31
525.100               91.31
525.125               90.10
525.130               90.10
525.135               90.10
525.137               90.10
527.010—527.210     91.31
529.010—529.110     91.31
530.060—530.080     91.31
531.010—531.110     91.31
531.300—531.370     91.31
532.090(1)            10.99,
                      110.99
534.040(2)(c)         10.99
534.050(2)(a)         110.99
                      
 
REFERENCES TO 2010 CODE
2010 Code 2015 Code Section
2010 Code 2015 Code Section
10.02     10.19
10.03     10.20
10.04     10.21
10.06     10.02
30.01     30.001
30.10     30.015
30.11     30.016
30.12     30.017
30.13     30.018
30.14     30.019
30.15     30.020
30.20     30.035
30.21     30.036
30.22     30.037
30.23     30.038
30.24     30.039
30.25     30.040
30.25(A)  30.041
30.26     30.042
30.26(A)  30.043,
          30.999
30.28     30.055
30.29     30.056
30.30     30.057
30.31     30.058
30.32     30.070
30.33     30.085
30.34     30.086
30.34     31.001
30.35     31.002
30.36     31.015
30.37     31.016
30.38     31.017
30.39     31.018
30.40     31.030
30.41     31.031
30.42     31.032
30.43     31.033
30.44     31.034
30.45     31.035
30.46     31.036
30.47     31.036
30.48     31.050
30.49     31.051
30.50     31.052
30.51     31.053
30.52     31.054
30.53     31.055,
          31.999
30.54     31.070
30.55     31.085
30.56     31.086
30.57     31.087
30.58     31.999
30.67     TSO I
31.01     32.01
31.02     32.02
31.10     32.15
31.11     32.16
31.12     32.17
31.13     32.18
31.14     32.19
31.15     32.20
31.16     32.21
31.17     32.22
31.18     32.23
31.30     32.35
31.31     32.36
31.32     32.37
31.33     32.38
31.34     32.39
32.01     32.50
32.02     32.51
32.03     32.52
32.04     32.53
32.05     32.54
32.06     32.55
32.07     32.56
32.08     32.57
32.09     32.58
32.10     32.59
32.11     32.60
32.12     32.61
32.13     32.62
33.01     33.001
33.02     33.002
33.03     33.003
33.04     33.004
33.05     33.005
33.10     33.020
33.11     33.021
33.12     33.022
33.13     33.023
33.14     33.024
33.15     33.025
33.16     33.026
33.17     33.027
33.18     33.028
33.20     33.040
34.07     33.999
35.01     TSO I
35.02     TSO II
35.03     TSO II
50.01     50.01,
          50.99
50.02     50.02,
          50.99
50.03     50.03,
          50.99
50.04     50.04,
          50.99
50.05     50.05,
          50.99
50.06     50.06,
          50.99
50.07     50.07
51.01     51.01
51.02     51.02
51.03     51.03
51.04     51.04,
          51.09
51.05     51.05,
          51.09
51.06     51.06,
          51.09
51.07     51.07
51.08     51.08
51.09     51.09
52.01     52.01
52.02     52.02
52.03     52.03
52.04     52.04
52.05     52.05
52.06     52.06
52.07     52.07
52.08     52.08
53.01     150.02
54.02     33.070
54.03     33.071
54.04     33.072
54.05     33.073
70.01     70.01
70.02     70.02
70.03     70.03
70.04     70.04,
          70.99
70.05     70.05
71.01     71.01
71.02     71.02
71.03     71.03
71.04     71.04
71.05     71.05,
          Ch. 74, Sch. II
71.06     71.06,
          71.99
71.07     71.07,
          71.99
71.08     71.08
71.09     71.09
71.10     71.10
71.11     71.11
72.01     72.01
72.02     72.02
72.03     72.03
72.04     72.04
72.05     Ch. 75, Sch. I
72.06     Ch. 75, Sch. II
72.07     72.05
72.08     72.06,
          72.99
72.09     72.07
72.10     72.08
72.11     72.09
72.12     Ch. 75, Sch. II
72.13     72.10
72.14     72.99
73.01     73.01
73.02     73.02
73.03     73.03
73.04     73.99
90.01     90.01
90.05     90.99
90.10     90.99
91.01     91.01
91.02     91.02
91.04     91.03,
          114.99
91.05     114.04
91.06     91.04
91.07     91.05
91.08     91.06
91.09     91.07
92.03A    91.23
92A.01    91.45
92A.02    91.46
92A.03    91.47
92A.04    91.48
92A.05    91.49
92A.06    91.50
92A.07    91.51
92A.08    91.52
93.01     92.01
93.02     92.02
93.03     92.03
93.04     92.99
94.01     92.15
94.02     92.16
94.03     92.99
95.01     93.01
95.02     93.02
95.03     93.03
95.04     93.99
96.01     93.15
96.02     93.16
96.03     93.99
97.01     114.01
97.02     114.02
97.03     114.03
98.01     94.01
98.02     94.02
98.03     94.03
98.04     94.04
98.05     94.99
99.01     130.01,
          130.99
99.02     91.65
101.01    30.100
101.08    30.999
110A.01   110.01
110A.02   110.02
110A.03   110.03
110A.04   110.04
110A.05   110.05
110A.06   110.99
110A.07   110.99
111.01    110.20
111.02    110.21
111.03    110.22
111.04    110.23
111.05    110.24
111.06    110.25
111.07    110.26
111.08    110.27
111.09    110.28,
          110.99
111.10    110.29,
          110.99
111.11    110.30
111.12    110.31
111.13    110.32
112.01    110.45,
          110.99
112.02    110.46,
          110.99
112.03    110.47,
          110.99
113.01    111.01
113.02    111.02,
          111.99
113.03    111.03,
          111.99
113.04    111.04,
          111.99
113.05    111.05,
          111.99
113.06    111.06
113.07    111.07,
          111.99
114.01    112.01
114.02    112.02
114.03    112.03
114.04    112.04
114.05    112.05
114.06    112.06
114.07    112.07
114.08    112.08
114.09    112.99
114.10    112.09
114.11    112.10
117.01    115.01
117.02    115.02
117.03    115.03
          
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         TSO I
-        - -         TSO II
15, 2010 - -         31.001,
                     31.002
1, 2011  1-24-2011   32.36
5, 2011  3-28-2011   30.043
4, 2011  6-13-2011   Ch. 75, Sch. I
7, 2011  6-30-2011   70.05,
                     72.10
                     51.03,
10, 2011 6-30-2011   51.05,
                     51.07 -
                     51.09
11, 2011 7-25-2011   31.001,
                     31.002
13, 2011 10-10-2011  30.085
                     33.999,
14, 2011 10-24-2011  70.05,
                     72.10
15, 2011 10-24-2011  Ch. 74, Sch. I,
                     Ch. 75, Sch. III
16, 2011 11-21-2011  32.36
17, 2011 1-9-2012    31.001,
                     31.002
                     30.001,
                     30.035,
                     30.037 -
                     30.040,
                     31.016 -
1, 2012  3-12-2012   31.018,
                     31.030 -
                     31.037,
                     31.070,
                     31.087,
                     31.999
3, 2012  3-12-2012   70.05,
                     72.10
                     95.01 -
4, 2012  3-12-2012   95.04,
                     95.99
5, 2012  3-12-2012   33.071,
                     33.073
2, 2012  3-20-2012   150.01
6, 2012  3-20-2012   TSO III
10, 2012 7-9-2012    30.040
11, 2012 7-9-2012    30.086
7, 2012  8-13-2012   150.01
14, 2012 10-8-2012   150.01
2, 2013  4-29-2013   150.01
5, 2013  4-29-2013   33.999
6, 2013  4-29-2013   31.001,
                     31.002
9, 2013  6-10-2013   Ch. 74, Sch. I
10, 2013 8-12-2013   110.04
15, 2013 11-11-2013  TSO I
19, 2013 11-21-2013  150.01
14, 2013 12-9-2013   150.01
17, 2013 12-9-2013   91.26
18, 2013 12-9-2013   30.043
7, 2014  - -         Ch. 97
1, 2014  1-13-2014   TSO I
4, 2014  4-4-2014    32.24
5, 2014  4-4-2014    32.40
6, 2014  4-4-2014    91.31
8, 2014  5-14-2014   72.07,
                     72.99
10, 2014 6-6-2014    30.040
11, 2014 6-10-2014   30.040
14, 2014 6-10-2014   51.09
17, 2014 12-8-2014   71.03
6, 2015  5-11-2015   33.010 -
                     33.012
10, 2015 6-8-2015    150.01
16, 2015 4-11-2015   32.36
18, 2015 10-12-2015  Ch. 75, Sch. I
19, 2015 10-12-2015  150.01
21, 2015 1-11-2016   150.03
                     91.10 -
                     91.12,
                     91.14,
                     91.15,
2-2016   1-11-2016   91.21,
                     91.22,
                     91.24,
                     91.26,
                     91.31
3, 2016  2-8-2016    Adopting Ordinance
4, 2016  2-8-2016    Adopting Ordinance
6, 2016  3-14-2016   30.100
7, 2016  11-14-2016  31.001
11, 2016 7-11-2016   51.09
20, 2016 12-12-2016  112.09
21, 2016 12-12-2016  32.36
                     30.100 -
22, 2016 12-12-2016  30.114,
                     30.999
                     91.10 -
23, 2016 12-12-2016  91.12,
                     91.26,
                     91.31
24, 2016 12-12-2016  32.36
25, 2016 1-9-2017    150.01
1, 2017  2-13-2017   Ch. 74, Sch. III
3, 2017  1-9-2017    32.36
6, 2017  3-13-2017   32.36
7, 2017  3-20-2017   TSO III
8, 2017  5-8-2017    150.01
11, 2017 6-26-2017   90.99
12, 2017 7-10-2017   150.01
                     91.13 -
15, 2017 6-26-2017   91.16,
                     91.31,
                     91.99
16, 2017 10-9-2017   Ch. 74, Sch. I
17, 2017 12-11-2017  30.043
18, 2017 12-11-2017  151.01
1, 2018  1-8-2018    72.20 -
                     72.23
2, 2018  2-12-2018   30.021
3, 2018  4-9-2018    32.36
4, 2018  6-18-2018   33.006
6, 2018  6-18-2018   30.040
12, 2018 11-12-2018  33.010 -
                     33.012
2, 2019  4-8-2019    30.043
5, 2019  6-10-2019   51.09
6, 2019  7-8-2019    Ch. 74, Sch. I
7, 2019  8-12-2019   33.010 -
                     33.012
8, 2019  9-9-2019    52.08,
                     52.09
11, 2019 12-9-2019   TSO II
1, 2020  5-11-2020   32.36
4, 2020  8-10-2020   51.09
5, 2020  8-10-2020   33.010 -
                     33.012
                     90.01,
                     90.02,
                     90.10 -
                     90.18,
6, 2020  12-14-2020  90.30 -
                     90.33,
                     90.45 -
                     90.48,
                     90.99
7, 2020  12-14-2020  Ch. 74, Sch. I
8, 2020  1-11-2021   150.01
9, 2020  1-11-2021   72.06
1, 2021  3-8-2021    32.36
2, 2021  4-12-2021   110.21 -
                     110.23
4, 2021  4-12-2021   31.001
5, 2021  6-7-2021    51.09
8, 2021  7-12-2021   TSO I
9, 2021  8-23-2021   91.12
                     96.01 -
10, 2021 8-23-2021   96.13,
                     96.99
12, 2021 9-13-2021   150.01
13, 2021 11-8-2021   TSO II
14, 2021 11-8-2021   71.12
15, 2021 11-8-2021   71.11
2021-16  12-13-2021  110.01,
                     110.04
1, 2022  4-11-2022   150.01
2, 2022  4-25-2022   32.24
3, 2022  4-25-2022   32.40
6, 2022  7-11-2022   51.09
7, 2022  8-8-2022    33.010 -
                     33.012
8, 2022  8-8-2022    30.022
9, 2022  8-8-2022    150.01
10, 2022 11-14-2022  150.01
1, 2023  3-13-2023   32.24
2, 2023  3-13-2023   32.40
4, 2023  5-8-2023    72.02
7, 2023  8-14-2023   51.09
8, 2023  8-14-2023   33.010 -
                     33.012
9, 2023  9-25-2023   TSO II
10, 2023 11-13-2023  91.12
11, 2023 12-11-2023  52.10
2, 2024  5-13-2024   32.36
4, 2024  5-13-2024   31.001
8, 2024  8-12-2024   31.001
9, 2024  8-12-2024   33.010 -
                     33.012
                    
 
 
