PINEVILLE, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-6 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-01 passed 11-11-2024; and
State legislation current through 2024
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ADOPTING ORDINANCE FOR CITY OF PINEVILLE, KENTUCKY
ENACTING AS AN ORDINANCE, A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF PINEVILLE,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE.
WHEREAS, the present general ordinances of the City of Pineville are incomplete
and inadequate and the manner of arrangement, classification and indexing
thereof is insufficient to meet the immediate needs of the City; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the Commonwealth of Kentucky empower
and authorize the Legislative Body of this City to revise, amend, restate,
codify and to compile any existing ordinance or ordinances and all new
ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate the
ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Body of the City of Pineville has authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in book form;
and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Legislative Body of the City of Pineville
that:
Section 1. The general ordinances of the City of Pineville as herein revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are adopted as and shall
constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Pineville."
Section 2. The Code as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the following
titles:
   Table of Contents
   Chapter
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      10.   Rules of Construction; General Penalty
      11.   Ward Boundaries
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      30.   Mayor-Council Plan
      31.   City Officials
      32.   City Council
      33.   Finance and Revenue
      34.   Public Records
      35.   Boards, Commissions, and Agencies
      36.   Police Department
      37.   Fire Department
      38.   Taxation
      39.   Personnel Regulations
      40.   City Policies
      41.   Code of Ethics
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      50.   Public Utilities Generally
      51.   Garbage
      52.   Sewers
      53.   Water
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      70.   General Provisions
      71.   Traffic Rules
      72.   Parking Regulations
      73.   Recreational Vehicles
      74.   Traffic Schedules
      75.   Parking Schedules
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      90.   Animals
      91.   Streets and Sidewalks
      92.   Nuisances; Weeds
      93.   Fireworks; Fire Prevention
      94.   Littering
      95.   Disaster and Emergency Services
      96.   Fair Housing
      97.   Parks and Recreation
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      110.   General Licensing Provisions
      111.   Advertising
      112.   Insurance Companies
      113.   Yard Sales
      114.   Alcohol Beverage Control
      115.   Mobile Food Vendors
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      130.   Offenses Against Municipal Regulations
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      150.   Building Regulations
      151.   Flood Damage Prevention
      152.   Planning
      153.   Subdivision Regulations
      154.   Zoning Code
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      I.   Annexations
      II.   Condemnation of Property
      III.   Contracts and Agreements
      IV.   Easements
      V.   Franchises
      VI.   Real Estate Transaction
      VII.   Street and Alley Closing
      VIII.   Street Name Changes
      IX.   Zoning
Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in the Code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of the Code, except
as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in part in the Code; provided
that such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty incurred or
any right established prior to the effective date of the Code, nor shall such
repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money,
annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises or granting special
rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the
issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of
real or personal property, granting or accepting easements or plats, accepting
dedications of land to public use, vacating or setting the boundaries of
streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal affect any other
ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects to
contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4. The Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and
approval by the City Legislative Body and the Clerk of the City of Pineville is
hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of the Code in the Office of the
City Clerk.
Section 5. The Code shall be in full force and effect from and after its date
of passage, approval and publication as required by law. The Code shall be
presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the ordinance and all
provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein contained, and of the
date of passage, and that the same is properly signed, attested, recorded and
approved, and that any public hearings and notices thereof as required by law
have been given.
Passed this  16th  day of  April , 2019.
Passed on First Reading:       March 11, 2019
Adopted on Second Reading:    April 8, 2019
Signed by Mayor:             April 16, 2019
Published in the Paper:       May 16, 2019
Recorded by Clerk:          May 9, 2019
 
    /s/ Scott Madon
   Scott Madon, Mayor
 
   ATTEST:
    /s/ Callie Prewitt
   City Clerk
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT
TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF Pineville KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2020 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Pineville, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Pineville
   SECTION 1.   That the 2020 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Pineville, Kentucky as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2.   That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required bylaw.
Passed this 27th day of August, 2020.
Passed on First Reading  8/10/2020
Adopted on Second Reading  8/27/2020
Signed by Mayor  /s/ Scott Madon
Published in the Paper                              
Recorded by Clerk  8/27/2020
ATTEST:
/s/ Samantha Bishop               /s/ Scott Madon
City Clerk                     Mayor
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   WARD BOUNDARIES
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Pineville Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted. Title heads, chapter heads, and section and division heads or
titles, and explanatory notes and cross-references, do not constitute any part
of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to those
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operators
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code shall
denote the City of Pineville irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNCIL. The city legislative body.
(KRS 83A.010(5))
   COUNTY. Bell County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor.
(KRS 83A.010(6), KRS 91A.010(4))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, includes all those incorporated or formed by
authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Council member.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes,
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, or camelid
species.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Pineville, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH.
(KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited PARTNERSHIPS.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers, and other persons with similar authority
to make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies- politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even- numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected, and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN. Includes affirmed in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Exists when there is an unexpired part of a term of
office without a lawful incumbent therein, when the person elected or appointed
to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has been no
election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies whether
the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the state,
county, city, or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to that meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or notice shall mean the
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include those acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part;
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council, as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment,
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed, from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances
until Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.32 should be used by the city to amend, add, or repeal a chapter, section,
or division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(KRS 83A.090)
   (C)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see KRS 61.870 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation, and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
Statutory references:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see KRS 83A.065
   Maximum fine for violations, see KRS 534.040(2)(c)
CHAPTER 11: WARD BOUNDARIES
Section
   
11.01   Addition of Ward 5E
   
11.02   Boundary line correction
§ 11.01 ADDITION OF WARD 5E.
   (A)   There is by this section created in and for the city an additional
ward which shall, from and after the passage of this section, include the
following territory in the city:
   That part of said city lying within the following bounds: Beginning on the
south bank of Cumberland River, where, at low water mark, the centerline of
Cedar Street in Pineville, if said street were extended, in a northerly
direction, would touch said point on the bank of the river - thence in a
southerly direction, and with said centerline of Cedar Street, if said street
were extended, touch the present south limits of the City of Pineville - thence
westerly, and with the present southern limits of the city to their
intersection with the line of the Highlands and with said southern limits, so
as to include the Highlands, recently annexed, to said city, still in a
westerly direction to Mile Branch of Cumberland River, thence down Mile Branch
to its confluence with Cumberland River, thence up, and with said south bank of
said river, as it meanders, at low water mark, to the point of beginning.
   (B)   Said ward, so created is to be, and shall be known and called Ward 5E,
of and in the city; and all persons whose domicile or residence is within the
confines above described, shall hereafter be citizens and residents of and in
Ward 5E in the city.
   (C)   There is subtracted from and taken out of the present Ward 3C, all
that portion thereof, which lies east of Cumberland River, and between said
river and the centerline of Cedar Street, and between the old western line of
the city, and that portion known as the Highlands, and the said centerline of
Cedar Street, and said territory is now made part of Ward 5E hereby created.
   (D)   The City Council shall hereafter be composed of the Mayor of the city
and eight Council members instead of six; and all ordinances and parts of
ordinances, in conflict herewith, are here and now and hereby repealed; and
Ward 5E shall hereafter, at a regular election, choose two Council members to
represent Ward 5E.
   (E)   Ward 3C shall hereafter be bounded on the south and east by Cumberland
River, and north and west from said river shall contain the territory that it
formerly contained.
   (F)   At a general election that may be held in Precinct 5E, (the boundaries
of which are identical with the ward boundary above described), all legal
voters residing within said boundary, who, if a qualified voter, has resided in
said ward for at least six months, prior to said election, stand for election
to the office of Council member for said ward, and that the two candidates who
receive the highest and next highest number of votes therein, shall be declared
to have been, and deemed to be elected to the office of Council member for said
ward.
(1995 Code, § 11.01) (Ord. passed 5-2-1955)
§ 11.02 BOUNDARY LINE CORRECTION.
   (A)   The city hereby declares that it is desirable and it intends and
proposes to correct the boundary line description in the area of Jones Avenue,
which territory is more particularly described in the description and map which
can be found in the Clerk’s office.
   (B)   Pursuant to the Kentucky Revised Statutes and laws of the state, the
city hereby declares that it is desirable and it intends to correct the
boundary line description as to the city limits.
(Ord. passed 1-9-2012)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY COUNCIL
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
35.   BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AND AGENCIES
      
36.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
37.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
38.   TAXATION
      
39.   PERSONNEL REGULATIONS
      
40.   CITY POLICIES
      
41.   CODE OF ETHICS
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city is hereby known as the “Mayor-
Council Plan”.
(KRS 83A.130(1)) (1995 Code, § 30.01)
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city is hereby governed by an elected executive who is called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which is called the City Council, and
by such other officers and employees as are provided for by statute or city
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.130(2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of six Council members who shall be
elected at large under nonpartisan city election laws.
(KRS 83A.030(1)(b), 83A.045, 83A.050, and 83A.170)
   (C)   In the primary election to be held May 25, 1993, any number of persons
may file as candidates for the six Council seats, but a maximum of 12
nonpartisan candidates with the highest number of votes shall be selected to
run in the November, 1993, general election. Those six persons receiving the
largest number of votes tabulated in the November, 1993, general election shall
be selected as the new City Council.
(KRS 83A.045(2))
(1995 Code, § 30.02) (Ord. passed 12-21-1992)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath; bond
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
Elected Officials
   
31.15   Election procedure
   
31.16   Mayor
   
31.17   Council members
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.30   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.31   City Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.32   Tax Collector
   
31.33   Building Inspector
   
31.34   City Attorney
   
31.35   Main Street Executive Director
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH; BOND.
   (A)   Oath. Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his or her office, take the following oath: “I do
solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the
Constitution of this Commonwealth, and the Constitution of the United States,
and be faithful and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue
a citizen thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my
ability, the office of                   , according to law; and I do further
solemnly swear (or affirm) that, since the adoption of the present
Constitution, I being a citizen of this United States, have not fought a duel
with deadly weapons within this State, nor out of it, nor have I sent or
accepted a challenge to fight a duel with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a
second in carrying a challenge, nor aided or assisted any person thus
offending, so help me God”, as established by § 228 of the state’s
Constitution.
   (B)   Bond. Official bonds shall, if required, meet the standards of KRS
62.060.
(1995 Code, § 31.01)
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   City Council shall establish the compensation of every elected city
officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in which the officer
is elected.
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of Mayors and Council members
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the State Finance and Administration
Cabinet computes by the second Friday in February of every year the annual
increase or decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using
1949 as the base year in accordance with § 246 of the state’s Constitution,
which provides that the Mayor in cities of the first class shall be paid at a
rate no greater than $12,000 per annum and Mayors in cities other than the
first class and Council members shall be paid at a rate no greater than $7,200
per annum.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
State Finance and Administration Cabinet.
   (B)   The City Council shall fix the compensation of each elected city
officer by ordinance and may change it by ordinance.
   (C)   The City Council shall establish the compensation of city employees in
accordance with the personnel and pay classification plan ordinance of the
city.
   (D)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
(1995 Code, § 31.02) (Ord. passed 4-29-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers.
      (1)   Any elected officer, in case of misconduct, inability, or willful
neglect in the performance of the duties of his or her office, may be removed
from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the City Council exclusive of
any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the deliberation of his or her
removal.
      (2)   No elected officer shall be removed without having been given the
right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed, has the right to
appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall be on the
record.
      (3)   No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated before
the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
(1995 Code, § 31.03)
Statutory references:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(2)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.15 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Election of city officers is governed by nonpartisan city election
laws as provided in KRS Chapter 83A.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) of this section by ordinance, except that no change
shall be made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and City Council members may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
(1995 Code, § 31.20)
Statutory reference:
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080(3), (4)
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
§ 31.16 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. His or her term of office begins
on the first day of January following his or her election and shall be for four
years and until his or her successor qualifies.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, Council shall
fill the vacancy within 30 days. If for any reason any vacancy in the office of
Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly
fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the
same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(1), (2), (6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Council shall not vote for himself or herself.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be submitted through
electronic mail if it originates from the official’s electronic mail address
and includes also the official’s handwritten signature. The resignation shall
be effective at the next regular or special meeting of the City Council
occurring on or after the date specified in the written letter of resignation.
If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation shall be deemed
to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of the City Council
occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the office
of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall
be exercised by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council Plan, city
ordinances and orders, and all applicable statutes. He or she shall supervise
all departments of city government and the conduct of all city officers and
employees under his or her jurisdiction, and require each department to make
reports to him or her as required by ordinance or as he or she deems desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he or she finds appropriate or as
required by ordinance, but not less than annually. He or she shall make any
recommendations for actions by the Council he or she finds in the public
interest.
(KRS 83A.130(3))
      (4)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to ensure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statutes or ordinances. Upon promulgation or upon revision
or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the person
responsible for maintaining city records. (KRS 83A.130(4))
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor’s power, duties, or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his or her official
authority to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order.
Executive orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a
permanent file.
(KRS 83A.130(7))
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his or her agent designated by
executive order.
(KRS 83A.130(8))
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance, or contract and except
for employees of the Council.
(KRS 83A.130(9))
      (8)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he or she is unable to attend to the
duties of his or her office by delegating responsibility for any function to be
performed, in accordance with division (D)(5) above. However, the Mayor may not
delegate the responsibility of presiding at meetings of the Council, and the
authority to approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may
only be delegated to an elected officer. With approval of the Council, the
Mayor may rescind any action taken in his or her absence under this section
within 30 days of such action. If for any reason the disability of the Mayor to
attend to his or her duties persists for 60 consecutive days, the office of
Mayor may be declared vacant by a majority vote of the Council and the
provisions of division (C) above shall apply.
(KRS 83A.130(10))
(1995 Code, § 31.21)
§ 31.17 COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Chapter 32.
(1995 Code, § 31.22)
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.30 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office;
      (4)   Bond, if required; and
      (5)   Compensation, which may be specifically established or set by
reference to another ordinance in which the compensation is specifically
established.
   (B)   With the exception of the Police Chief and all city police officers,
all nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of
City Council. The Police Chief and all city police officers shall be appointed
by the Mayor at will and such appointments need not be approved by City
Council.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Mayor at will unless
otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (D)   The following are nonelected city offices:
      (1)   City Clerk-Treasurer;
      (2)   City Tax Collector;
      (3)   City Purchasing Agent;
      (4)   Building Inspector;
      (5)   City Attorney;
      (6)   Codes Enforcement;
      (7)   ABC Administrator;
      (8)   Fire Chief;
      (9)   Police Chief; and
      (10)   Public Works Director.
(1995 Code, § 31.35)
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1),(2)
§ 31.31 CITY CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk-Treasurer shall include,
but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the “official custodian” or
“custodian” pursuant to KRS 61.870 to 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used;
      (4)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail or electronically
submit to the Department for Local Government a list containing current city
information including but not limited to the following:
         (a)   The correct name, telephone number, and electronic mail address
of the mayor, legislative body members, and the correct name, telephone number,
and electronic mail address for the city's appointed officials or employees who
are serving in the following roles or substantially similar roles as of January
1 of each year:
            1.   City Clerk;
            2.   City Treasurer or Chief Financial Officer;
            3.   City Manager or Administrator;
            4.   City Attorney;
            5.   Human Resources Director;
            6.   Police Chief;
            7.   Fire Chief;
            8.   Public Works Director;
            9.   Risk Manager;
            10.   Information Technology Manager;
            11.   Public Relations or Communications Officer; and
            12.   Planning and Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for City Hall, and
telephone number of the City Hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
      (5)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required by
statute or ordinance.
(KRS 83A.085)
   (C)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City Council
from time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
   (D)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk-Treasurer unless
such person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the state’s Constitution
and has provided bond, in the amount of $100,000 with corporate surety
authorized to transact business in the state and conditioned upon the
performance of the duties specified herein.
(1995 Code, § 31.36)
§ 31.32 TAX COLLECTOR.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Tax Collector for the city.
   (B)   The said officer shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice,
consent, and approval of a majority of the City Council.
   (C)   The Tax Collector shall be charged with the duty to collect on behalf
of the city all taxes owed to the city including, but without limitation, ad
valorem taxes on realty and personalty, occupational tax, and privilege tax.
   (D)   The Tax Collector shall be authorized to inspect and examine the
permanent records of the city with respect to the imposition of taxes; to
prepare and mail tax bills; to receive and issue receipts for the payment of
taxes; to accept such property valuations as may from time to time be
authorized by the City Council in accordance with applicable statutes and
ordinances; to refer for collection such delinquent accounts as may from time
to time be authorized for such referral by the Mayor and City Council; and to,
in general, perform such other and necessary duties as are necessary to the
collection of the said taxes.
   (E)   The Tax Collector shall make a monthly accounting to the City Clerk-
Treasurer for such taxes as have been collected during the preceding month.
   (F)   Prior to assuming the office of Tax Collector, the Tax Collector shall
take an oath of office that he or she is a resident of the county and of the
age of majority and that he or she shall faithfully discharge the duties of the
office as set forth in this section to the best of his or her ability and in
accordance with applicable state and local statutes, ordinances, and
regulations.
   (G)   Bond shall be required of the Tax Collector in the sum of $100,000
with surety to be approved by the Mayor and City Council conditioned upon the
faithful discharge of the duties of office as herein enumerated.
   (H)   The Tax Collector shall receive such reasonable compensation for the
duties of the office as may from time to time be established by the Mayor and
the City Council. Such compensation shall be fixed at the commencement of the
fiscal year for the city and shall thereafter be subject to modification only
at the commencement of each subsequent fiscal year; however, the Mayor and City
Council shall be authorized to fix compensation for the office at the time of
the passage of this section pending the commencement of the next fiscal year.
   (I)   The Tax Collector may be removed from office by the Mayor at will,
except insofar as such removal power may be limited by applicable personnel
policies of the city.
(1995 Code, § 31.37) (Ord. passed 3-11-1985)
§ 31.33 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Establishment. The office of Building Inspector is hereby established.
   (B)   Appointment. The Building Inspector shall be appointed by the Mayor
with the approval of the City Council pursuant to KRS 83A.080, and may be
removed by the Mayor at will.
   (C)   Oath; bond. No person shall be appointed or act as the Building
Inspector unless such person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the
state’s Constitution and has provided a bond in the sum as established by City
Council, with corporate surety authorized to transact business in the state and
conditioned upon the performance of the duties specified herein.
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to administer,
execute, and enforce the provisions of the official building ordinances of the
city.
      (2)   The Building Inspector shall take any action as permitted by law to
correct the violations of the provisions of the official building ordinances of
the city.
      (3)   The Building Inspector shall have the authority to order
discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings, structures, signs, fences, or
additions, alterations, or structural changes.
   (E)   Compensation. The compensation of the Building Inspector shall be in
an amount to be established by City Council by ordinance.
   (F)   Deputies. The city hereby authorizes such deputies as may be needed
from time to time to assist the Building Inspector.
(1995 Code, § 31.38)
§ 31.34 CITY ATTORNEY.
   The City Attorney is appointed by the Mayor with approval of City Council on
a retainer basis, and is compensated on a per-hour basis.
(1995 Code, § 31.39)
§ 31.35 MAIN STREET EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR.
   The city’s personnel policy as enacted by ordinance and adopted and
established is hereby intended to create and include the new class
specification of Main Street Executive Director with a full-time class code of
5001 or part-time class code of 5002, as follows.
   (A)   Characteristics of the class. Under the supervision of the Executive
Authority, the Main Street Executive Director is responsible for the
implementation of the city’s Main Street Program. In conjunction and
consultation with the Board of Director of Main Street, the Director will
conduct and/or supervise all activities of the Main Street Program. The
Director shall act as the principal liaison between the city’s Main Street
Program.
   (B)   Examples of duties.
      (1)   Coordinate activity of Main Street Program committees, ensuring
effective communication and performance of assigned tasks. Work closely with
local government, local organizations, downtown businesses and/or property
owners and other downtown stakeholders to implement the four components of the
Main Street Approach; promotion, design, organization, and economic
development;
      (2)   Manage all administrative aspects of the Main Street Program. This
includes, but is not limited to, budget development, plan documentation,
purchase records, and all reports required by the city’s Main Street Program
and the National Main Street Center;
      (3)   Develop goals, strategies, and worked plans consistent with the
aims of the Main Street Program;
      (4)   Develop and implement public awareness and education programs
designed to foster support of the goals and objectives of the Main Street
Program. As example, the Directors will use speaking engagements and media
appearances to maintain the Program’s visibility in the community. The Director
will also represent the local program at state and national levels as
necessary;
      (5)   Encourage joint activities among the downtown community (e.g.,
promotional events, parking issues, special programs, and the like). Provide
resources and advise tenants and owners. Facilitate cooperation between the
downtown community and public officials;
      (6)   Assist individual tenants and owners with physical improvements
projects through personal consultation of referrals to professional
consultants, designers; contractors, and the like. The Director will stay
informed and communicate all financial incentive programs available for such
purposes;
      (7)   Pursue all available grant funds from both government and private
institutions, providing the programs are compatible with the goals of the Main
Street Program. The Director will prepare or supervise and approve the
preparation of grant applications and will be responsible for obtaining all
necessary supporting documents and approvals;
      (8)   Work closely with other local government agencies that may assist
in achieving the goals of the Main Street Program; and
      (9)   Monthly reports must be submitted to the Mayor and the City
Council. Weekly reports must be submitted to the Mayor and the City Clerk to be
on file for the City Council.
   (C)   Minimum qualifications. The Director should have post secondary
education or work experience in one or more of the following fields: public
administration; finance; historic preservation; architecture; design; public
relations; nonprofit/volunteer administration; small business administration or
development; and/or municipal planning. Supervisory experience is preferred.
   (D)   Special knowledge skills and abilities. The Director must possess
superior communication skills, both written and verbal. The Director must
understand and appreciate the unique issues confronting the city downtown area
and be able to form a working coalition from the diverse downtown community.
The Director should be energetic, well organized, and able to function
effectively without close supervision. The Director must be enthusiastic about
the goal of revitalizing downtown.
   (E)   Salary. The salary of the Main Street Executive Director will be
established by the city’s personnel policy.
   (F)   Authorized positions. One.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2008)
CHAPTER 32: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
   
32.04   Council members to pay taxes
Rules of Procedure
   
32.15   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.16   Meetings
   
32.17   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.30   One subject; title
   
32.31   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.32   Form of amendment
   
32.33   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.34   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
32.35   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.36   Official city records
   
32.37   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.38   Publication requirements
   
32.39   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.40   Periodic review required
   
32.41   Municipal orders
   
32.42   Proved by Clerk-Treasurer; received in evidence
   
32.43   Legislative immunity
Cross-reference:
   Personnel regulations, see
Ch. 39
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Council member shall be elected at-
large by the voters of the city at a regular election. Terms of office begin on
the first day of January following the election and shall be for two years.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02.
(1995 Code, § 32.01)
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on Council occur in a way that one
or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30 days fill
the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice of his
or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with the remaining
members in making further appointments until all vacancies are filled. If
vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor shall
appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute a
quorum. Remaining vacancies are filled as provided in this section.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation shall be
effective at the next regular meeting of the city legislative body.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs on the City Council which is required by law to
be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately notify
in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason, any vacancy on Council
is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill
the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same
period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6)) (1995 Code, § 32.02)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall be
exercised by the elected Council of the city. The Council may not perform any
executive functions except those functions assigned to it by statute.
(KRS 83A.130(11))
   (B)   The Council shall establish all appointive offices and the duties and
responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and regulations for the
public health, safety, and welfare.
   (C)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (D)   (1)   The Council may investigate all activities of city government.
The Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and submit to
it sworn statements regarding the performance of his or her official duties.
      (2)   Any statement required by the Council to be submitted or any
investigation undertaken by the Council, if any office, department, or agency
under the jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or
undertaken unless and until written notice of the Council’s action is given to
the Mayor.
      (3)   The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the Council
and to appear personally or through his or her designee on behalf of any
department, office, or agency in the course of any investigation.
(KRS 83A.130(13))
(1995 Code, § 32.03)
§ 32.04 COUNCIL MEMBERS TO PAY TAXES.
   (A)   It shall be a requirement, in order to be eligible for service as a
City Council member, that any elected member of the Council keep currently paid
all taxes due and owing the city and that any Council member who has overdue
taxes shall be ineligible to sit and serve on the City Council.
   (B)   As used herein, TAXES shall include ad valorem taxes, automobile
privilege licenses, and occupational taxes.
(1995 Code, § 32.04) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979)
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.15 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council. The Council has
the authority to establish, by ordinance, the manner in which one of its number
may be selected to preside at meetings of the Council in the absence of the
Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in Council proceedings, but shall not have a
vote, except that he or she may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130(5)) (1995 Code, § 32.20)
§ 32.16 MEETINGS.
   (A)    The City Council shall conduct its regular monthly meeting on the
second Monday of each calendar month at 6:00 p.m. in the Bell Theater.
   (B)   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or upon
written request of a majority of the Council. In the call, the Mayor or Council
shall designate the purpose, time, and place of the special meeting with
sufficient notice for the attendance of Council members and for compliance with
KRS Chapter 61.
   (C)   At a special meeting, no business may be considered other than that
set forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person responsible
for maintaining city records as provided under §
31.31 and by the officer presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.130(11)) (1995 Code, § 32.21) (Ord. passed 3-11-1985; Ord. passed 12-
14-2021)
§ 32.17 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Council constitutes
a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take action.
(KRS 83A.060(6)) (1995 Code, § 32.22)
ORDINANCES
§ 32.30 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
clearly states the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1)) (1995 Code, § 32.35)
§ 32.31 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled “Be it ordained by the City of Pineville”.
(KRS 83A.060(2)) (1995 Code, § 32.36)
§ 32.32 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
words being added by a single solid line drawn underneath them, and any words
being deleted by a single broken line drawn through them.
(KRS 83A.060(3)) (1995 Code, § 32.37)
§ 32.33 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no ordinance shall be
enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.38 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(4),(7)) (1995 Code, § 32.38)
§ 32.34 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance by
affixing his or her signature or disapprove it by returning it to the Council
together with a statement of his or her objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor’s approval unless he
or she fails to return it to the legislative body within ten days after
receiving it or unless the Council votes to override the Mayor’s veto, upon
reconsideration of the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting
following its return, by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of
the membership.
(KRS 83A.130(6)) (1995 Code, § 32.39)
§ 32.35 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is
made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5)) (1995 Code, § 32.40)
§ 32.36 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Council is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Council has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.31(B) and
32.37, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk-Treasurer and the presiding officer shall sign the
official record of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8)) (1995 Code, § 32.41)
§ 32.37 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk-Treasurer in the following manner.
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8)) (1995 Code, § 32.42)
§ 32.38 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.33(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
legislative body. If the legislative body elects to publish an ordinance in
summary, the summary shall be prepared and certified by an attorney licensed to
practice law in the state and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes fines, penalties,
forfeitures, taxes, or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9)) (1995 Code, § 32.43)
§ 32.39 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10)) (1995 Code, § 32.44)
§ 32.40 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years, all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent,
and invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11)) (1995 Code, § 32.45)
§ 32.41 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Council may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall be in
writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the Council has control.
(KRS 83A.060(12), (13)) (1995 Code, § 32.46)
§ 32.42 PROVED BY CLERK-TREASURER; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
Clerk-Treasurer; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of ordinances
by authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in evidence by any
state court without further proof of such ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14)) (1995 Code, § 32.47)
§ 32.43 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Council members shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15)) (1995 Code, § 32.48)
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
Improvements
   
33.20   Definitions
   
33.21   Financing of improvements
   
33.22   Apportionment of cost
   
33.23   Comprehensive report required
   
33.24   Public hearing required
   
33.25   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.26   Affected owner may contest
   
33.27   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.28   Effect of additional property or change in financing
Procurement Regulations
   
33.40   Determination of expenditures
   
33.41   Delegation of purchasing authority
   
33.42   Competitive ascertainment
 
   
33.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   City policies, see
Ch. 40
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply.
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an ENCUMBRANCE
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities, and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010) (1995 Code, § 33.01)
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions;
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles; and
      (3)   Readily provide such financial data as may be required by the
federal revenue sharing program.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020) (1995 Code, § 33.02)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. No moneys shall
be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund except in accordance with
a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Moneys held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in such form and detail as
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal, together with a budget message, shall be
submitted to Council not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the
fiscal year it covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the
governmental goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain
important features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the
reasons for stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs,
and appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   Council may adopt the budget ordinance making appropriations for
the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether greater
or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The budget ordinance
may take any form that Council finds most efficient in enabling it to make the
necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of § 157
of the state’s Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated, for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance’s adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. Such responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to Council of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. Such reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
   (M) No city agency, or member, director, officer, or employee of any city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, express or implied, beyond such existing
appropriations are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond,
certificate, or warrant for the payment of money by the city in any way to any
extent, beyond the balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030) (1995 Code, § 33.03)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The city shall, after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund
of the city to be audited by the auditor of public accounts or a certified
public accountant. The audits shall be completed by March 1 immediately
following the fiscal year being audited. Within ten days of the completion of
the audit and its presentation to the city legislative body, pursuant to
division (B)(6) of this section, the city shall forward three copies of the
audit report to the state’s Department of Local Government for information
purposes. The Department shall forward one copy of the audit report to the
Legislative Research Commission to be used for the purposes of KRS 6.955 to
6.975.
   (B)   The city shall enter into a written contract with the selected
auditor. The contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement
which shall include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the general purpose financial
statements of all governmental, proprietary and fiduciary funds of the city;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual city audit report an
examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to the city
under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification with the
annual audit report that the funds were expended for the purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which includes such tests of the
accounting records and such auditing procedures as considered necessary under
the circumstances. Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal
funds, appropriate state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report embodying
the general purpose financial statements and his or her opinion and statements
relating thereto;
      (5)   The auditor express an overall opinion as to whether the general
purpose financial statements present fairly the financial condition of the city
or state the reasons why an overall opinion cannot be expressed;
      (6)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to Council at a regular or special meeting; and
      (7)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant’s work papers upon request.
   (C)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (D)   Upon completion of an audit, the city may elect to publish the
auditor’s report in accordance with division (E) below, or may publish a
financial statement in accordance with division (F) below. Notwithstanding the
election of divisions (E) or (F) below, the city shall within 90 days after the
close of the fiscal year, cause to be published in a newspaper qualified under
KRS 424.120 a legal display advertisement of not less than eight column inches
that the statement required by KRS 424.220 has been prepared and that copies
have been provided to each local newspaper of general circulation, each news
service, and each local radio or television station which has on file with the
city a written request to be provided such statement.
   (E)   If the city elects to publish the auditor’s report prepared in
accordance with this section in lieu of the financial statement required by KRS
424.220, it shall publish the auditor’s cover letter to the City Council, the
combined balance sheet showing all fund types and account groups, the combined
statement of revenues, expenditures, and changes in fund balance for all
governmental fund types, the combined statement of revenues, expenses, and
changes in retained earnings/fund balances for all proprietary fund types and
similar trust funds, and the combined statement of changes in financial
position for all proprietary fund types and similar trust funds in accordance
with KRS Chapter 424. The advertisement shall contain a statement that a copy
of the complete auditor’s report, including financial statements and
supplemental information, are on file at City Hall and are available for public
inspection during normal business hours. The advertisement shall also contain a
statement that any citizen may obtain from City Hall a copy of the complete
auditor’s report, including financial statements and supplemental information,
for his or her personal use. The statement shall notify citizens requesting a
personal copy of the city audit report that they will be charged for
duplication costs at a rate that shall not exceed $0.25 per page. In addition,
the advertisement shall contain a statement that copies of the financial
statement prepared in accordance with KRS 424.220 are available to the public
at no cost at the business address of the officer responsible for preparation
of such statement.
   (F)   If the city elects to publish the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220 in lieu of publishing the auditor’s report, it
shall, within 60 days after the completion of the audit, publish such statement
in accordance with KRS Chapter 424.
   (G)   The city may utilize the alternative publication methods authorized by
KRS 424.190(2) to comply with the provisions of this section.
(KRS 91A.040) (1995 Code, § 33.04)
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city’s official depositories one or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the state. The amount of funds on deposit in an official depository
shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or surety bonds.
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which states
the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the payment,
and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization shall be
numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060) (1995 Code, § 33.05) Penalty, see §
33.99
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.20 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply.
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all such properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by Council of the special benefit received
by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis, front foot
basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may include
consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different classes
of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received, and other
factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs, and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to such front footage of all such properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by such facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefitted by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all such property.
(KRS 91A.210) (1995 Code, § 33.10)
§ 33.21 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes.
(KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
(1995 Code, § 33.11)
§ 33.22 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization. Council
may assess such property in the same manner as for privately owned property or
it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230) (1995 Code, § 33.12)
§ 33.23 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240) (1995 Code, § 33.13)
§ 33.24 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   (A)   After preparation of the report required by §
33.23, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424,
and mailed to each affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt
requested, and shall include:
      (1)   The nature of the improvement;
      (2)   Description of area of the improvement;
      (3)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in
whole or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
      (4)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
      (5)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250) (1995 Code, § 33.14)
§ 33.25 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.23 and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage the city shall
publish such ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by certified
mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to proceed with
the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to
the property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the
total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260) (1995 Code, § 33.15)
§ 33.26 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.25, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his or her property in the improvement, or the amount of his
or her assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by
the special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution are final and binding with respect to such
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270) (1995 Code, § 33.16)
§ 33.27 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.26, or after favorable final judgment in any such action, whichever comes
later, the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the
action, including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment
thereon and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The
first installment may be apportioned so that other payments will coincide with
payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Council shall
exempt any benefitted property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280) (1995 Code, § 33.17)
§ 33.28 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.23 through
33.27 applies if additional property is included in the improvement or if
change is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property
may be included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof
without compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost
apportioned to any other property, or any other change may be made without such
compliance if all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290) (1995 Code, § 33.18)
PROCUREMENT REGULATIONS
§ 33.40 DETERMINATION OF EXPENDITURES.
   The Mayor shall determine, in writing, the need for any item above the sum
specified in KRS 424.260 as it may be amended, and whether the expenditure is
provided for in the budget.
(1995 Code, § 33.30) (Ord. passed 1-7-1980; Ord. 33.40 passed 11-14-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Bids for materials, supplies, equipment or services–exceptions, see KRS
424.260
§ 33.41 DELEGATION OF PURCHASING AUTHORITY.
   The Mayor shall delegate to a purchasing officer and/or department heads
such authority as may be appropriate and necessary to purchase items as
determined when needed.
(1995 Code, § 33.31) (Ord. passed 1-7-1980)
§ 33.42 COMPETITIVE ASCERTAINMENT.
   The Mayor shall obtain at least three price quotes from vendors to ascertain
the competitiveness of each quote, in accordance with KRS 45A.370 through
45A.375.
(1995 Code, § 33.33) (Ord. passed 1-7-1980)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
33.04 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any
officer who fails to comply with any of the provisions of this section shall,
for each failure, be subject to a forfeiture of not less than $50 nor more than
$500, in the discretion of the court, which may be recovered only once, in a
civil action brought by any resident of the city. The costs of all proceedings,
including a reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident bringing the
action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful party.
(KRS 91A.040) (1995 Code, § 33.04)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.15   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.16   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.17   Public records not immediately available
   
34.18   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.19   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.20   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.21   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.22   Format of copies
   
34.23   Fees for copies
   
34.24   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
34.25   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
34.26   Public records protected from disclosure
   
34.27   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The city government of this city.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its news
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   CUSTODIAN. The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records. The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of
most of the public records of this city is the Clerk-Treasurer.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to, a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to, paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN. The chief administrative officer or any other officer or
employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care, and
keeping of public records, regardless of whether such records are in his or her
actual personal custody and control. The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall
be the Mayor.
   PERSON. A human being who makes a bodily appearance before the office of the
custodian and makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. The city governing body, and any other municipal department,
board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee, council, or
agency thereof, as all these are more specifically defined and set forth in KRS
61.870(1).
   PUBLIC RECORDS. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of,
or retained by a public agency. PUBLIC RECORDS shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for a body referred to in KRS 61.870(1)(h) that are
not related to functions, activities, programs, or operations funded by state
or local authority, nor any records that have been excluded by §
34.26.
   REASONABLE FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies and/or mailing of public records shall not exceed the actual cost
thereof and shall not include the cost of staff time required.
   REQUEST. An oral petition by any person or, at the option of the custodian,
the completion of a written application that clearly states the specific public
record or records that are desired for inspection or duplication.
   RESIDENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH.
      (1)   An individual residing in the Commonwealth;
      (2)   A domestic business entity with a location in the Commonwealth;
      (3)   A foreign business entity registered with the Secretary of State;
      (4)   An individual that is employed and works at a location or locations
within the Commonwealth;
      (5)   An individual or business entity that owns real property within the
Commonwealth;
      (6)   Any individual or business entity that has been authorized to act
on behalf of an individual or business entity defined in divisions (1) to (5)
of this definition; or
      (7)   A news-gathering organization as defined in KRS 189.635(9)(b)1.a.
to e..
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identification, or any other mechanism for
controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the public
agency’s computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870) (1995 Code, § 34.01)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING
PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.15 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   As defined in §
34.01, and subject to the limitations set forth in §
34.22, any resident of the Commonwealth desiring to inspect or copy the public
records of this city shall make a request or complete a written application for
such records at the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer during regular office
hours, except during legal holidays.
(KRS 61.872(2))
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a resident of the Commonwealth’s
request is in compliance with the open records law and the requested records
are immediately available, the custodian shall deliver the records for
inspection. Suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the
City Clerk-Treasurer for the inspection. No resident of the Commonwealth shall
remove original copies of public records from the offices of any public agency
without the written permission of the official custodian of the record.
(KRS 61.872(1))
   (C)   The applicant shall have the right to make abstracts of the public
records and to obtain copies of all written public records. When copies are
requested, the custodian may require a written request and advance payment of
the prescribed fee as defined in §
34.01.
(KRS 61.874(1))
(1995 Code, § 34.05)
§ 34.16 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk-Treasurer does not have custody or control of the public
record or records requested, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the
applicant and shall furnish the name and location of the official custodian of
the agency’s public records.
(KRS 61.872(3)) (1995 Code, § 34.06)
§ 34.17 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed three days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays) from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on
which the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(4)) (1995 Code, § 34.07)
§ 34.18 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(5)) (1995 Code, § 34.08)
§ 34.19 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
    The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and
legal holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
five-day period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in
part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under his or her authority and shall constitute
final agency action.
(KRS 61.880) (1995 Code, § 34.09)
§ 34.20 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
(1995 Code, § 34.10)
§ 34.21 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or her or
in which he or she is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate
identification, subject to the provisions of §
34.26 of these rules and regulations.
(KRS 61.884) (1995 Code, § 34.11)
§ 34.22 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
34.26. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where appropriate.
If the applicant desires copies of public records other than written records,
the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or permit the
applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall ensure that
such duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than eight and one- half inches by 11 inches in at least one color on
white paper, or for electronic format, in a flat file electronic American
Standard Code for Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency
maintains electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and this
format conforms to the requestor’s requirements, the public record may be
provided in this alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by
the public agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the
forms described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(1) - (3)) (1995 Code, § 34.12)
§ 34.23 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   The public agency may prescribe a reasonable fee for making copies of
nonexempt public records requested for use for noncommercial purposes which
shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of the
media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but not
including the cost of staff required. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request
of an individual or a group, the public agency may at its discretion provide
the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs
incurred.
   (B)   (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) of this section may be
based on one or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing, and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records; and/or
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase, or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(3),(4))
(1995 Code, § 34.13)
Cross-reference:
   Fees for online access to public records, see §
34.25
§ 34.24 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
34.23;
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio,
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) (1995 Code, § 34.14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.25 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license, or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
34.23.
(KRS 61.874(6)) (1995 Code, § 34.15)
§ 34.26 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)    The following public records are excluded from the application of
this chapter, and these rules and regulations, and shall be subject to
inspection only upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except as
provided in KRS 61.878(1) that no court shall authorize the inspection by any
party of any materials pertaining to civil litigation beyond that which is
provided by the rules of civil procedure governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy;
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records where the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other
statute;
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to the agency or required by
an agency to be disclosed is generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records.
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietor, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS
Chapter 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (A)(3)(b)
above shall not apply to records where the disclosure of which is directed by
statute.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the state. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(2) above;
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including, but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods;
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision;
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again;
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action. The exemptions provided by this division
(A) shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the
exercise of rights granted by this chapter;
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency;
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended;
      (11)   All public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation; and
      (12) Public records or information, the disclosure of which is prohibited
or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the General
Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of Revenue in
tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure under KRS
131.190.
      (13)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapter 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited; and
      (14)   Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Ch. 31;
      (15)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function; and
      (16)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of:
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party;
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for the person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos.
(KRS 61.878(1)(a)–(l), (o), (q), (s))
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person. In addition, if any public record contains material which
is not excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
34.18.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge,
or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him or her. Such records
shall include, but not be limited to, work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and preliminary and other
supporting documentation. A municipal employee, applicant, or eligible shall
not have the right to inspect or copy any examination.
   (E)   When material is made available pursuant to a request under division
(A)(16) of this section, the public agency shall not be required to make a copy
of the recording except as provided in KRS 61.169, and the requesting parties
shall not be limited in the number of times they may view the material.
(KRS 61.878(2)–(6))
(1995 Code, § 34.16)
§ 34.27 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the open
records law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
(1995 Code, § 34.17)
CHAPTER 35: BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AND AGENCIES
Section
Board of Adjustment
   
35.001   Establishment
City Planning Commission
   
35.015   Establishment
   
35.016   Membership; terms; oath; removal from office
   
35.017   Officers and staff
   
35.018   Meetings; quorum
   
35.019   Bylaws
   
35.020   Powers and duties
Municipal Utility Commission
   
35.035   Establishment
   
35.036   Membership; qualifications
   
35.037   Vacancies
   
35.038   Conflicts of interest
   
35.039   Terms of members
   
35.040   Bonds; oath
   
35.041   Compensation
   
35.042   Control of operations and fiscal management
   
35.043   Rates and charges
   
35.044   Revenue bonds
   
35.045   Collection of revenue
   
35.046   Rules and regulations
   
35.047   Powers
   
35.048   Quorum
   
35.049   Removal from office
   
35.050   Obligations incurred by Commission
Municipal Housing Commission
   
35.065   Establishment
   
35.066   Membership
City-County Community Development Agency
   
35.080   Establishment
Tourism Commission
   
35.095   Purpose
   
35.096   Vacancies
   
35.097   Appointment of Commissioners; compensation
   
35.098   Officers
   
35.099   Powers and duties
   
35.100   Audit
   
35.101   Funding
Main Street Pineville
   
35.115   Organization
   
35.116   Purpose
   
35.117   Board of Directors
   
35.118   Board member requirements
   
35.119   Removal of Director
   
35.120   Committees
   
35.121   Program Director
   
35.122   Finances
Broadband Fiber Authority
   
35.130   Organization
   
35.131   Purpose
   
35.132   Terms of office
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 35.001 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Provisions concerning the Board of Adjustment are contained in the zoning
ordinance, adopted by reference in §
154.01.
(1995 Code, § 35.015)
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 35.015 ESTABLISHMENT.
   This Commission shall be known as the City Planning Commission. Upon the
appointment and subsequent approval of members, election of officers, and
adoption of its bylaws, its existence shall begin subject to the provision of
KRS Chapter 100. The Commission may engage in planning operations within its
jurisdiction which shall be coterminous with its corporate boundary except
where otherwise provided for by KRS 100.131.
(1995 Code, § 35.030) (Ord. passed 7-7-1969)
§ 35.016 MEMBERSHIP; TERMS; OATH; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   The City Planning Commission shall consist of six members who shall be
appointed in accordance with KRS 100.133. All members of the Commission shall
serve without compensation, but reimbursement of expenses may be authorized.
The term of office of ex officio members shall correspond to their respective
city office official tenure. The term of office of citizen members shall be
four years, except that the original terms shall be staggered so that they
serve one, two, three, and four years respectively. Appointments or
reappointments and the filling of vacancies shall continue the staggered
pattern. All vacancies, whether by resignation, dismissal, or expiration of the
term of office, shall be within 60 days by the appropriate appointing authority
or as otherwise provided by KRS 100.147.
   (B)   Each member shall be administered the official oath of office before
entering upon his or her duties. A citizen member may be removed by the Mayor,
with approval of the City Council, for inefficiency, neglect of duty,
malfeasance, or conflict of interest. The removed member shall have the right
of appeal in the manner prescribed by KRS 100.157.
(1995 Code, § 35.031) (Ord. passed 7-7-1969; Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 35.017 OFFICERS AND STAFF.
   The Planning Commission shall elect a chairperson and any other officers
which it deems necessary from its citizen members for a term of one year. Any
officer shall be eligible for re-election. The Commission, with approval of the
City Council, may employ a staff as it may deem necessary for its work and may
contract with professional planners and other parties for such services as it
may require.
(1995 Code, § 35.032) (Ord. passed 7-7-1969)
§ 35.018 MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   The Planning Commission shall conduct each year at least six regular
meetings for the transaction of its business. The bylaws of the Commission
shall reflect the schedule of regular meetings, the manner in which notice
shall be given, the date, time, and place, and the subject or subjects to be
discussed and acted upon, as well as the method of calling and conducting
special meetings. A simple majority of such quorum may transact any official
business except in those instances where there is to be an adoption or
amendment of the Commission’s bylaws or elements of the Comprehensive Plan or
regulations, then a vote of the simple majority of the total membership shall
be necessary.
(1995 Code, § 35.033) (Ord. passed 7-7-1969)
§ 35.019 BYLAWS.
   The Planning Commission shall adopt and approve its bylaws. The bylaws shall
set forth the procedures, rules, and regulations necessary for conducting and
transacting its business, shall provide the method for administration of funds,
and for an annual audit thereof.
(1995 Code, § 35.034) (Ord. passed 7-7-1969)
§ 35.020 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Planning Commission shall have such powers necessary to carry out its
functions in accordance with this subchapter and the provisions of KRS Chapter
100. The Commission may be assigned any powers, duties, and functions related
to urban renewal or public housing as the City Council may provide.
(1995 Code, § 35.035) (Ord. passed 7-7-1969)
MUNICIPAL UTILITY COMMISSION
§ 35.035 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created a commission to be styled the Municipal Utility
Commission (hereinafter sometimes referred to as Commission), to be composed of
seven members who, together with their successors, shall be named and appointed
by the Mayor subject to the ratification and approval of the City Council.
(1995 Code, § 35.045) (Ord. passed 5-7-1973)
§ 35.036 MEMBERSHIP; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Five members of the Municipal Utility Commission shall be citizens,
residents, taxpayers, and legal voters of said city. Considering the fact that
the city’s water distribution system extends beyond the corporate limits of the
city and serves customers and premises in certain rural areas of the county
outside the corporate boundaries of the city, the other two members of the
Commission shall not be residents of said city but shall be citizens,
residents, taxpayers, and legal voters of the county.
   (B)   Members of the Commission shall not at the time of their appointment
be indebted to the city, directly or indirectly, nor shall any of them be
surety on the official bonds of any officer of the city. No officer or employee
of the city shall be eligible to serve as a member of said Commission.
(1995 Code, § 35.046) (Ord. passed 6-5-1958; Ord. passed 11-20-1990; Ord.
passed 8-16-2004)
§ 35.037 VACANCIES.
   If, at any time during the term of office of any member of the Municipal
Utility Commission, such member shall become a candidate for, or be elected to
or appointed to any public office, or should become ineligible to serve as a
member of the Commission for any reason mentioned in this subchapter, such
member shall automatically vacate his or her membership on said Commission, and
the Mayor, subject to the ratification of the City Council, shall forthwith
appoint another in his or her place.
(1995 Code, § 35.047) (Ord. passed 6-5-1958)
§ 35.038 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   No member of the Municipal Utility Commission shall be personally interested
in any contract for the furnishing of supplies or services in connection with
either of the two utilities, and any such contract shall be null, void, and
have no binding effect.
(1995 Code, § 35.048) (Ord. passed 6-5-1958)
§ 35.039 TERMS OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   The term of office of a member of the Municipal Utility Commission
shall commence on July 1. The term of office of the first member of the
Commission shall commence immediately upon their appointment and qualification,
but the length of their respective terms shall be deemed to commence July 1.
   (B)   The first membership of said Commission shall consist of two members
(residents of the city) for a term of one year; two members (residents of the
city) for a term of two years; one member (resident of the city) for a term of
three years; one member (nonresident of the city) for a term of one year; and
one member (nonresident of the city) for a term of two years.
   (C)   Upon the expiration of the terms of the first members, successors
shall be appointed for terms of three years each. It shall be permissible for
any member to be reappointed upon the expiration of any term, providing such
member is then and continues to be qualified for membership according to the
provisions of this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 35.049) (Ord. passed 6-5-1958)
§ 35.040 BONDS; OATH.
   (A)   The Mayor shall determine the bond amount for the members of the
Municipal Utility Commission. Said bonds and sureties shall be approved by the
City Council, and the premium of the surety company in each case shall be paid
as part of the cost of operating said municipal utilities and charged to the
Operation and Maintenance Fund of each of the utilities provided in the
ordinance authorizing the issuance of revenue bonds
   (B)   Each member of the Commission shall promptly assume office by
furnishing said bond and taking an oath similar to the oath prescribed by § 228
of the state’s Constitution.
   (C)   Before the expiration of the bonds of the members of the Commission or
of any employee or employees, the person covered by such bond shall close his
or her accounts and make a full accounting to the Commission of all funds
handled by him or her.
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation (including the city) injured by any
misconduct, mismanagement, or misappropriation of funds by the Commission or by
any member thereof, or by any employee thereof, shall be entitled to maintain
an action on the bond of the person or persons responsible for such injury.
(1995 Code, § 35.050) (Ord. passed 6-5-1958)
§ 35.041 COMPENSATION.
   No member of the Municipal Utility Commission shall be paid or receive any
salary or other compensation for his or her services as member.
(1995 Code, § 35.051) (Ord. passed 6-5-1958)
§ 35.042 CONTROL OF OPERATIONS AND FISCAL MANAGEMENT.
   Notwithstanding that all improvements of the city’s water plant and
distribution system may not have been completed, the Municipal Utility
Commission shall have absolute and exclusive control of the operation and
fiscal management of the waterworks and distribution system, as well as of the
operation and fiscal management of said sewage treatment plant and sewer system
of the city.
(1995 Code, § 35.052) (Ord. passed 6-5-1958)
§ 35.043 RATES AND CHARGES.
   Any change in the rates and charges for service rendered by the two
municipal utilities shall be made only by ordinance of the City Council, upon
recommendations and studies of the Utility Commission.
(1995 Code, § 35.053) (Ord. passed 6-5-1958)
§ 35.044 REVENUE BONDS.
   The provisions, covenants, and agreements relating to the issuance of city
sewer revenue bonds, the provisions, covenants, and agreements relating to the
borrowing of money in anticipation of the issuance of city water system revenue
bonds, as well as the provisions, covenants, and agreements set forth in any
ordinance heretofore or hereafter adopted by the City Council relating to the
issuance of the city’s revenue bonds for either of the two utility systems of
the city, and the establishment of the initial rates and charges applicable
thereto set out in §
35.043, are hereby recognized to constitute valid and binding contracts of the
city with the holders or prospective holders of the said respective revenue
bonds and the coupons thereto attached.
(1995 Code, § 35.054) (Ord. passed 6-5-1958)
§ 35.045 COLLECTION OF REVENUE.
   (A)   In addition to the operation of the two utility systems, the Municipal
Utility Commission shall collect, and pay into the city’s treasury at the end
of each calendar month, all those fixed monthly charges prescribed and imposed
by the City Council for the city’s collection of garbage and refuse.
   (B)   All revenues collected by the Commission for charges imposed for
service of said sewer utility shall be kept in a separate account and used and
applied for the operation and maintenance of said sewer system, except that an
amount thereof sufficient to pay said sewer revenue bonds and coupons as same
become due and payable shall be paid into the city’s treasury each month as
prescribed by said ordinance relating to the issuance of said bonds.
   (C)   In like manner, all revenues collected by the Commission for charges
imposed for service of said water distribution system or utility shall be kept
in a separate account and used and applied for the operation and maintenance of
the waterworks and water distribution system, except that an amount thereof
sufficient to pay the city water system revenue bonds and coupons as same
become due and payable as shall be prescribed by ordinance relating to the
issuance of same shall be paid into the city’s treasury as therein directed.
   (D)   The management and operation of the collection of trash and garbage by
the city is retained by the City Council, the Commission only having the
responsibility of collection of the fixed charges therefor as provided in
division (A) above.
   (E)   The Commission shall make, or cause to be made and delivered to the
City Clerk-Treasurer as soon as possible after the close of each calendar month
and prior to the regular monthly meeting date of the City Council following the
close of such month, detailed reports showing the collections and expenditures
and the amounts apportioned during the preceding month to each of the funds
created by the two or other ordinances authorizing the issuance of said sewer
revenue bonds and the water system revenue bonds.
(1995 Code, § 35.055) (Ord. passed 6-5-1958)
§ 35.046 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Municipal Utility Commission shall provide rules, regulations, and
bylaws for the management of said municipal utilities and for the conduct of
its business therein. One of its members shall be elected as Secretary. The
Commission may elect from its members such other officers as it deems
advisable. Its officers shall perform the duties prescribed by the Commission.
(1995 Code, § 35.056) (Ord. passed 6-5-1958)
§ 35.047 POWERS.
   (A)   The Municipal Utility Commission shall have the power and authority to
do any and all acts necessary and proper in connection with the management and
operation of the two utility systems to purchase or contract to purchase in the
manner prescribed by law, all supplies and materials for the operation and
maintenance of said utility systems; and to cause to be performed all work
necessary in connection therewith, provided there are proper funds legally
usable for such purposes under the state statutes relating to municipally owned
utilities, and under the city’s ordinances to the respective utility.
   (B)   The Commission shall select such employees as may be necessary for the
conduct of its business, subject to the qualifications and inhibitions set out
in this subchapter; and shall fix the compensation to be paid to its employees,
having in mind, however, the funds available therefor.
   (C)   If any employee shall be entrusted with the handling of money, such
employee shall be required by the Commission to give bond with good surety in a
penal sum not less than the maximum estimated amount which is anticipated such
employee may have in his or her custody at any one time, and the premiums for
any corporate surety in connection therewith shall constitute a proper
operating cost and may be paid from funds available for such cost; or the
Commission may arrange for a blanket bond covering all employees if such
procedure appears to be advantageous and more economical.
(1995 Code, § 35.057) (Ord. passed 6-5-1958)
§ 35.048 QUORUM.
   Four members of the Municipal Utility Commission shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of business at any regular meeting or at any other meeting
of which all members have received proper, timely, and adequate notice. In
connection with the adoption of any motion, resolution, or order, the
affirmative vote of at least four members shall be required.
(1995 Code, § 35.058) (Ord. passed 6-5-1958)
§ 35.049 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   The members of the Municipal Utility Commission shall be removable from
office by a meeting called for such purpose; but only for misconduct and upon
written charges tendered to the member in question at least ten days before
such meeting; and the member in question shall have the right to appear and be
heard in his or her own defense, with or without legal counsel, and to confront
witnesses and to produce witnesses for hearing in his or her own behalf. After
service of written charges, such member may be suspended until his or her case
has been decided by the City Council after such hearing, such hearing to be
commenced not later than the second regular meeting of the City Council after
charges are tendered and completed with reasonable diligence, or else the
member shall be deemed exonerated.
(1995 Code, § 35.059) (Ord. passed 6-5-1958)
§ 35.050 OBLIGATIONS INCURRED BY COMMISSION.
   Obligations incurred by the Municipal Utility Commission shall be
obligations against the revenues or prospective revenues of said municipal
utilities only, and against only such portions thereof as may be available for
the payment of such obligations under the provisions of law and of the above
mentioned ordinances. No obligation incurred by the Commission shall be an
obligation against the city’s General Fund or against general credit of the
city.
(1995 Code, § 35.060) (Ord. passed 6-5-1958)
MUNICIPAL HOUSING COMMISSION
§ 35.065 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Housing Commission is hereby created for the city. The name of said
Commission shall be the Municipal Housing Commission.
(1995 Code, § 35.070) (Ord. passed 11-6-1958)
§ 35.066 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Municipal Housing Commission shall consist of the Mayor, ex officio, and
four persons appointed by him or her with the approval of the City Council,
such persons shall have the qualifications and be appointed for the terms as
prescribed by KRS 80.040. Said Commission shall have the powers and perform the
duties as prescribed by KRS 80.010 through 80.300.
(1995 Code, § 35.071) (Ord. passed 11-6-1958)
CITY-COUNTY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
§ 35.080 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Bell County/Pikeville Community Development Agency is hereby established
pursuant to the authority set forth in KRS 99.500.
(1995 Code, § 35.100)
TOURISM COMMISSION
§ 35.095 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Pineville Tourism Commission shall be to promote
convention and tourist activity within the city and surrounding areas, in
accordance with KRS 91A.350 to 91A.400.
(1995 Code, § 35.112) (Ord. passed 1-12-1995)
§ 35.096 VACANCIES.
   Vacancies in the Commission shall be filled in the same manner in which the
original appointments are made.
(1995 Code, § 35.113) (Ord. passed 1-12-1995)
§ 35.097 APPOINTMENT OF COMMISSIONERS; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Commissioners shall be appointed for terms of three years,
provided that in making the initial appointments, the Mayor shall appoint two
Commissioners for a term of three years, two Commissioners for a term of two
years, and three Commissioners for a term of one year.
   (B)   Commissioners shall serve without compensation, but shall be
reimbursed for reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their
official duties. Commissioners shall be citizens of the city.
(1995 Code, § 35.114) (Ord. passed 1-12-1995)
§ 35.098 OFFICERS.
   The Commission shall elect from its membership a Chairperson and a
Treasurer, and may employ such personnel as are necessary to effectively carry
out the purpose of KRS 91A.350 to 91A.400.
(1995 Code, § 35.115) (Ord. passed 1-12-1995)
§ 35.099 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Commission may enter into such contracts are as necessary to
effectively carry out the purpose of KRS 91A.350 to 91A.400.
      (2)   Such contracts may include, but shall not be limited to, the
procurement of promotional services, advertising services, and other services
and materials relating to the promotion of tourist and convention business;
provided, however, that contracts of the type enumerated shall be made only
with persons, organizations, and firms with experience and qualifications for
providing promotional services and materials, such as advertising firms,
chambers of commerce, publishers, and printers.
      (3)   Such contracts shall be submitted to the legislative body of the
city for its review and comment prior to the execution of such contracts.
   (B)   Any powers granted to the Tourist Commission by KRS 91A.350 to 91A.400
or subsequent statutes, which are not specifically enumerated in this
subchapter, are hereby conveyed to the Tourism Commission, and such statutes
are hereby incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof.
(1995 Code, § 35.116) (Ord. passed 1-12-1995)
§ 35.100 AUDIT.
   The books of the Commission shall be audited annually by an independent
auditor, who shall make a report to the Commission, to the organizations
submitting names from which Commission members are selected, and to the Mayor
of the city.
(1995 Code, § 35.117) (Ord. passed 1-12-1995)
§ 35.101 FUNDING.
   (A)   The Tourism Commission shall annually submit to the City Council a
request for funds for the operation of the Commission for the ensuing year. The
Council shall provide funds for the operation of the Tourism Commission in its
annual budget.
   (B)   The funds collected from the taxes imposed by §§
38.15,
38.30 through
38.38 shall be maintained by the City Treasurer in a special fund and disbursed
to the Pineville Tourism Commission in accordance with the budget request
approved by the city. All such money shall be used solely for the purpose of
promoting recreational, convention, and tourist activity in the city as set out
in KRS 91A.390, and shall not be used to provide a subsidy in any form to any
hotel, motel, or restaurant. Any money not expended by the Tourism Commission
during any fiscal year will be used to make up a part of the Commission’s
budget for the next fiscal year.
(1995 Code, § 35.118) (Ord. passed 1-12-1995)
Cross-references:
   Restaurant tax, see §§
38.30 through
38.38
   Transient room tax, see §
38.15
MAIN STREET PINEVILLE
§ 35.115 ORGANIZATION.
   The name of the organization shall be Main Street Pineville, hereinafter
referred to as “the organization”. The organization shall operate under the
auspices of the city.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2018)
§ 35.116 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The subchapter establishing the organization of Main Street under the
city is created under the laws of the state which allows a governing body of a
local government to authorize the establishment of such an organization for the
purpose of promoting a positive image for the downtown area as well as the city
as a whole; improving economic management; strengthening public participation;
stimulating downtown revitalization and historic development; and for the
enjoyment of its residents and visitors.
   (B)   The organization shall receive, administer, and distribute funds in
connection with any activities related to the purposes stated in this section;
provided, however, that the corporation shall only engage in activities that
are in the purview of city ordinances and state statutes.
   (C)   Upon dissolution of the organization, the residual assets of the
organization shall be distributed to the city.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2018)
§ 35.117 BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
   (A)   Structure. The business of Main Street Pineville shall be managed by a
Board of Directors constituted by nine members appointed by the Mayor of the
city. The term of office shall be four years, at which time the members shall
be appointed or replaced.
   (B)   Meeting. The Board of Directors shall conduct business monthly at the
regular scheduled meeting time of 6:00 p.m. at City Hall on the third Wednesday
of each month. A quorum shall be determined anytime five members of the Board
of Directors are present. Meetings shall be conducted by the President of the
Main Street Pineville Board of Directors and shall follow Robert’s Rules of
Order. Vacancies in the Main Street Pineville Board of Directors shall be
filled by appointment by the Mayor of the city.
   (C)   Officers. The Board of Directors shall fill the following eight seats
by election by July 30 of each year. Each term shall be for one calendar year,
at which time the officer shall be replaced or re-elected:
      (1)   President;
      (2)   Vice President;
      (3)   Secretary;
      (4)   Organization Chair;
      (5)   Design Chair;
      (6)   Promotions Chair;
      (7)   Economic Vitality Chair; and
      (8)   Treasurer. The City Clerk shall serve as an ex-officio member of
the Board of Directors and permanently fill the seat of Treasurer. Treasurer is
responsible for all financial matters including, but not limited to,
preparation of budgets, issuance of checks/payments, reconciliation of
accounts, and reporting financial matters to the Board of Directors and to the
Executive Director.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2018; Ord. passed 9-20-2021)
§ 35.118 BOARD MEMBER REQUIREMENTS.
   Each Board member is required to fulfill the following obligations.
   (A)   Residency. Must be a resident of the city or must own a business
within the city limits of Pineville.
   (B)   Attendance. Must attend a minimum of 75% of Board meetings held each
calendar year. A maximum of three unexcused absences are permitted. Excused
absences shall be granted by a majority vote of the Board.
   (C)   Community service. Must volunteer at least 16 hours of time to Main
Street events and/or meetings per quarter. The Executive Director is
responsible for maintaining record of time volunteered. In the case that 16
hours of volunteer time have not been met, Board approval is required to excuse
the member of the community service requirement for that quarter.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2018; Ord. passed 9-20-2021)
§ 35.119 REMOVAL OF DIRECTOR.
   A Director may be removed when sufficient cause exists for removal. The Main
Street Pineville Board of Directors or the city may entertain charges against
any Director. A Director may be represented by counsel upon any removal
hearing. The Main Street Pineville Board of Directors shall adopt such rules
for this hearing as it may, in its discretion, consider necessary for the best
interests of the Main Street Pineville Program.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2018)
§ 35.120 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Four committees shall operate under the auspices of the Main Street
Board of Directors. A minimum of three people shall serve on each committee.
Each committee shall have a Chairperson (must be a Board member) and a
Secretary.
   (B)   Committees shall meet no less than six times per year but may choose
to meet more often to accomplish goals. Each committee shall have goals laid
out by a Board-approved work plan. All business conducted in committee meetings
shall be brought to the following Board of Directors meeting for Board
approval. The following four committees shall be formed.
      (1)   Organization. Organization establishes consensus and cooperation by
building partnerships among the various groups that have a stake in the
commercial district. By getting everyone working toward the same goal, the Main
Street Program can provide effective, ongoing management and advocacy for the
downtown or neighborhood business district. Through volunteer recruitment and
collaboration with partners representing a broad cross section of the
community, the Program can incorporate a wide range of perspectives into its
efforts. A governing Board of Directors and standing committees make up the
fundamental organizational structure of volunteer-driven revitalization
programs. Volunteers are coordinated and supported by a paid Program Director.
This structure not only divides the workload and clearly delineates
responsibilities, but also builds consensus and cooperation among the various
stakeholders. The Organization Committee shall include all Board members, one
City Council member, and the Mayor of the city.
      (2)   Promotion. Promotion takes many forms, but the goal is to create a
positive image that will rekindle community pride and improve consumer and
investor confidence in the commercial district. Advertising, retail promotions,
special events, and marketing campaigns help sell the image and promise of Main
Street to the community and surrounding region. Promotions communicate the
commercial district’s unique characteristics, business establishments, and
activities to shoppers, investors, potential business and property owners, and
visitors.
      (3)   Design. Design gets Main Street into top physical shape and creates
a safe, inviting environment for shoppers, workers, and visitors. It takes
advantage of the visual opportunities inherent in a commercial district by
directing attention to all of its physical elements: public and private
buildings; storefronts; signs; public spaces; parking areas; street furniture;
public art; landscaping; merchandising; window displays; and promotional
materials. An appealing atmosphere, created through attention to all of these
visual elements, conveys a positive message about the commercial district and
what it has to offer. Design activities also include instilling good
maintenance practices in the commercial district, enhancing the district’s
physical appearance through the rehabilitation of historic buildings,
encouraging appropriate new construction, developing sensitive design
management systems, educating business and property owners about design
quality, and long-term planning.
      (4)   Economic vitality. Economic vitality strengthens your community’s
existing economic assets while diversifying its economic base. This is
accomplished by retaining and expanding successful businesses to provide a
balanced commercial mix, sharpening the competitiveness and merchandising
skills of business owners, and attracting new businesses that the market can
support. Converting unused or underused commercial space into economically
productive property also helps boost the profitability of the district. The
goal is to build a commercial district that responds to the needs of today’s
consumers.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2018)
§ 35.121 PROGRAM DIRECTOR.
   The Program Director of the Program shall manage the daily operations of the
Program. The Program Director shall be responsible for coordinating the
implementation of the Program’s policies and projects and such other duties as
the Board of Directors may require. The Program Director shall report to the
Board of Directors on a monthly basis. The Program Director shall work directly
under the authority of the Main Street Pineville Board of Directors and the
Mayor of the city.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2018)
§ 35.122 FINANCES.
   (A)   All checks, drafts, and other instruments for the payment of money and
all instruments of transfer of securities shall be signed in the name and on
behalf of the Program by the Treasurer and Mayor of the city.
   (B)   Budget appropriations by the city may be held separately in the city’s
General Fund. All other moneys deposited and spent shall be transferred in/out
of the Main Street Account.
   (C)   By July 30 of each calendar year, a budget shall be set by the Board
of Directors.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2018)
BROADBAND FIBER AUTHORITY
§ 35.130 ORGANIZATION.
   The Broadband Fiber Authority is composed of five members to be nominated by
the duly elected Mayor and approved by the City Council.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2023)
§ 35.131 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Board is to establish and administer affordable high-
speed fiber broadband internet service throughout the city.
(Ord. Passed 3-13-2023)
§ 35.132 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The terms of office shall be effective immediately upon appointment and
shall be for four years. The members shall serve until their successors are
appointed. The respective terms shall begin on the following dates and
succeeding terms shall end in four-year increments from these dates, regardless
of the effective date of the appointment.
 
Term   Begin           End               Next
One    January 1, 2020 December 31, 2024 1/1/25–12/31/28
Two    January 1, 2021 December 31, 2025 1/1/26–12/31/29
Thre e January 1, 2022 December 31, 2026 1/1/27–12/31/30
Four   January 1, 2023 December 31, 2027 1/1/28–12/31/31
Five   January 1, 2024 December 31, 2028 1/1/29–12/31/32
 
(Ord. passed 3-13-2023)   
CHAPTER 36: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Officers; term
   
36.02   Chief of Police
   
36.03   Command of Department
   
36.04   Compensation
   
36.05   Bonds; insurance benefits
   
36.06   Uniforms
   
36.07   Work week
   
36.08   Absences from duty
   
36.09   Performance of duties
   
36.10   Kentucky Law Enforcement Foundation Program Fund
   
36.11   Carrying concealed deadly weapons
Regulations and Conditions
   
36.25   Enforcement of state laws and city ordinances
   
36.26   On-duty requirements
   
36.27   Appointment of special or extra police officers
   
36.28   Promulgation of additional regulations
   
36.29   Disciplinary actions
   
36.30   Removal of officers
Auxiliary Police Force
   
36.45   Establishment
   
36.46   Membership; qualifications
   
36.47   Supervision by Chief of Police; compliance with orders
   
36.48   Pay rate; benefits
   
36.49   Revocation of special police appointments
Cross-reference:
   Personnel regulations, see
Ch. 39
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 OFFICERS; TERM.
   The Police Department of the city shall consist of seven police officers
(patrol officers). One of the seven police officers shall be designated as the
Assistant Chief. The term of each police officer shall commence January 7,
1980, and end on January 4, 1982, and shall so continue every two years
thereafter.
(1995 Code, § 36.01) (Ord. passed 1-7-1980)
§ 36.02 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The term for the Chief of Police shall begin on January 7, 1980, to January
4, 1982, and shall continue every two years thereafter, or until his or her
successor is duly elected and qualified; and his or her salary is per the
classification plan for all hours worked, and in addition thereto, the premium
for his or her official bond, which bond is hereby fixed at $5,000.
(1995 Code, § 36.02) (Ord. passed 1-7-1980)
§ 36.03 COMMAND OF DEPARTMENT.
   As prescribed by statute, the Mayor shall be in command of the Police
Department, and the Chief of Police shall be second in command and the
Assistant Chief shall be next in command.
(1995 Code, § 36.03) (Ord. passed 1-7-1980)
§ 36.04 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   (1)   The compensation prescribed for the Chief of Police and said
members of the Police Department shall be compensation in full for all
services, including the service of legal notices, summons, warrants, and other
papers placed in their hands by any official of the city or by the city’s Board
of Tax Supervisors in matters pertaining to or affecting the interests of the
city, and for the performance of such other duties heretofore or hereafter
prescribed by statute, ordinance, or order of the Mayor or City Council.
      (2)   No police officer shall receive any fee prescribed by law for an
arrest or other service in criminal matters, but all such fees, when collected,
shall be paid into the city treasury.
   (B)   The salary of the Assistant Chief is hereby fixed at the rate as per
the classification plan for all hours worked, and the salary of each police
officer is hereby fixed at the rate as per the classification plan for all
hours worked.
(1995 Code, § 36.04) (Ord. passed 1-7-1980)
§ 36.05 BONDS; INSURANCE BENEFITS.
   In addition to the above, the city shall pay the premium for the official
bonds of the members of the Police Department, which bonds are hereby fixed at
the minimum sum of $5,000 each; and the city shall also pay the premium to
provide hospitalization insurance benefits for the Chief of Police, Assistant
Chief, and each police officer (the individual to be responsible for payment of
the premium for hospitalization benefits he or she chooses to undertake for
other members of his or her family).
(1995 Code, § 36.05) (Ord. passed 1-7-1980)
§ 36.06 UNIFORMS.
   (A)   The city shall supply to the Chief of Police, Assistant Chief, and
each police officer two complete winter uniforms, two complete summer uniforms,
and all leather-wear, badges, and insignia, the same to remain the property of
the city and shall be returned to the city upon the recipient ceasing to be
Chief of Police, Assistant Chief, or police officer. The city shall also pay
the expense, not to exceed $500 per individual, of maintaining said uniforms,
insignia, and the like in good state of repair.
   (B)   Above uniforms shall be supplied at the time police officer begins to
work for the city.
(1995 Code, § 36.06) (Ord. passed 1-7-1980)
§ 36.07 WORK WEEK.
   Neither the Chief of Police, Assistant Chief, any police officer, or any
member of the Police Department shall work in excess of eight hours during any
work day nor more than 40 hours during any work week unless so ordered and
directed by the Mayor and/or City Council.
(1995 Code, § 36.07) (Ord. passed 1-7-1980)
§ 36.08 ABSENCES FROM DUTY.
   All employees, including the Chief of Police, Assistant Chief, any police
officer, or any member of the Police Department shall be subject to have their
salaries deducted from when the employee absents himself or herself from work
for a day or more for personal reasons, or for absences of a day or more
occasioned by sickness or disability.
(1995 Code, § 36.08) (Ord. passed 1-7-1980)
§ 36.09 PERFORMANCE OF DUTIES.
   The Chief of Police and the members of the Police Department shall perform
such other duties and be subject to the regulations and conditions as
prescribed by §§
36.25 through
36.30.
(1995 Code, § 36.09) (Ord. passed 1-7-1980)
§ 36.10 KENTUCKY LAW ENFORCEMENT FOUNDATION PROGRAM FUND.
   (A)   It is the purpose and intent of the City Council that, in addition to
the qualifications prescribed by law, the Chief of Police and members of the
Police Department shall possess the educational qualifications prescribed by
the Kentucky Law Enforcement Foundation Program Fund (KLEFPF) and, within six
months immediately following his or her election, shall successfully complete a
ten-week course of police work training provided by KLEFPF and thereafter
complete other police training thereby prescribed; and it is the purpose and
intent of the City Council that the Police Department be operated and
maintained in a manner as will comply with the provisions of the program.
   (B)   To that end, any person elected Chief of Police, Assistant Chief, or
police officer following the passage of this section who fails to successfully
complete said ten-week course of study prescribed by KLEFPF within six months
immediately following his or her election shall forfeit and vacate the office
or position to which he or she was elected; and failure of the Chief of Police
or any member of the Police Department to successfully complete the hours of
training required by the program subsequent to said ten-week period of training
shall be cause for his or her dismissal and discharge by the City Council.
(1995 Code, § 36.10) (Ord. passed 1-7-1980)
§ 36.11 CARRYING CONCEALED DEADLY WEAPONS.
   (A)   All members of the city’s Police Department that carry deadly weapons
on or about their persons in their regularly scheduled duties as police
officers for the city, may carry concealed deadly weapons that are usually
carried by such officers in performing their duties while on regularly
scheduled shift of duty for the city.
   (B)   Deadly weapons that may be carried by members of the city’s Police
Department within the state are those weapons that are usually carried by such
officers in performing their duties while on regularly scheduled shift of duty
for the city.
(1995 Code, § 36.11) (Ord. passed 11-2-1970)
REGULATIONS AND CONDITIONS
§ 36.25 ENFORCEMENT OF STATE LAWS AND CITY ORDINANCES.
   All police officers shall faithfully enforce all laws of the state and all
ordinances of the city, including those pertaining to parking meters and
parking of vehicles on city streets.
(1995 Code, § 36.25) (Ord. passed 1-3-1966)
§ 36.26 ON-DUTY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   While on duty, the police officers shall maintain contact with the
police radio system and shall not attend programs of entertainment in theaters
or other places of amusement for their own recreation or amusement.
   (B)   While on duty, the police officers shall remain within the corporate
limits of the city and shall not depart therefrom except when necessary for the
proper discharge of a duty prescribed by law.
   (C)   No police officer shall engage in political activities while on duty,
either supporting or opposing any candidate or question to be voted for at any
primary or regular election.
   (D)   All police officers shall be sober while on duty. Being under the
influence of one alcoholic drink, large or small, during prescribed hours of
duty, shall be sufficient cause for dismissal from the Police Department,
suspension from duty without pay, or other disciplinary action by the Mayor and
City Council.
(1995 Code, § 36.26) (Ord. passed 1-3-1966)
§ 36.27 APPOINTMENT OF SPECIAL OR EXTRA POLICE OFFICERS.
   None of the provisions of this section are intended to prohibit the
appointment of special or extra police officers in the manner prescribed by KRS
95.740.
(1995 Code, § 36.27) (Ord. passed 1-3-1966)
§ 36.28 PROMULGATION OF ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to supplement these regulations by
promulgating such additional rules and regulations as shall be reasonably
necessary or advisable for the proper functioning of the Police Department and
facilities, and he or she shall prescribe the regular duty hours of each police
officer.
(1995 Code, § 36.28) (Ord. passed 1-3-1966)
§ 36.29 DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS.
   The Mayor is hereby empowered to take proper disciplinary action against any
officer of the Police Department guilty of violating any of the provisions of
this chapter, or violating any rule or regulation theretofore promulgated by
the Mayor or guilty of absenteeism from duty, and he or she may suspend such
officer from duty without pay for a period of not exceeding seven days, or with
approval of the City Council in lawful session, he or she may suspend such
officer from duty without pay for a period in excess of seven days. In case of
such suspension or absence from regular duty, such officer’s monthly salary for
the month in which such suspension or absence from duty occurs shall be reduced
in the proportion which the day or days of suspension or absence from duty bear
to the days of duty within such monthly pay period.
(1995 Code, § 36.29) (Ord. passed 1-3-1966)
§ 36.30 REMOVAL OF OFFICERS.
   The Mayor and City Council, so far as they can legally do, reserve the right
to remove any or all of police officers for good cause. Each said officer
hereafter appointed or employed by the city shall, by accepting such office or
employment, accept the provisions of this chapter as a part of his or her
contract of employment by the city, including this section, and consent that he
or she is subject to removal by the Mayor and City Council at any time for
legal cause after due hearing of charges preferred against him or her therefor.
(1995 Code, § 36.30) (Ord. passed 1-3-1966)
AUXILIARY POLICE FORCE
§ 36.45 ESTABLISHMENT.
   In addition to the regular Police Department of the city, as the Department
is now maintained, and under and by virtue of the authority given to the city
by KRS 95.450, there is created in the city an organization to be known as the
auxiliary police force, the object and purpose of which shall be to aid,
assist, and work with the regular or full-time members of the city’s Police
Department in performing special duties within the city in accordance with the
rules and regulations as prescribed by the City Council and the Police
Department.
(1995 Code, § 36.40) (Ord. 0002, passed 12-7-1981)
§ 36.46 MEMBERSHIP; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The number of auxiliary police force members shall not exceed eight
but the number of members of the force may be increased or decreased as the
City Council may deem wise and proper.
   (B)   The auxiliary police force shall be composed of citizens and residents
of the city, who volunteer their services to the city for the purpose of
composing and formulating an organization of this type, and for the purpose of
performing special duties within the city as determined by the City Council and
the Chief of Police, and in times of emergencies to assist and aid the regular
Police Department when called upon.
   (C)   Each member must be over 21 years of age, able to read and write and
understand the English language, and no person shall be accepted as a member of
the auxiliary police force unless he or she is a person of sobriety; has been,
and is, an orderly law-abiding citizen; is not over 55 years of age at the time
of acceptance as a member; and has not been convicted of a felony.
   (D)   Every person who volunteers for the auxiliary police force shall,
before being accepted, file a certificate from a reputable physician, which
shall certify that the person who volunteers for such service to the city is in
sound physical condition. The physical examination shall be paid for by the
city.
   (E)   Persons who are desirous of joining the auxiliary police force may do
so by applying to the Auxiliary Police Force Committee, composed of the Chief
of Police, members of the Safety Committee, and the Chairperson of the Finance
Committee, who shall pass on the qualifications of such prospective members.
(1995 Code, § 36.41) (Ord. 0002, passed 12-7-1981)
§ 36.47 SUPERVISION BY CHIEF OF POLICE; COMPLIANCE WITH ORDERS.
   The Chief of Police shall supervise and direct the members of the auxiliary
police force at all times, and all members of the Police Department or force
shall, while on active duty, conform to and comply with the orders and
directions of the Police Chief or an authorized officer of the Police
Department.
(1995 Code, § 36.42) (Ord. 0002, passed 12-7-1981)
§ 36.48 PAY RATE; BENEFITS.
   (A)   The rate of pay for the members of the auxiliary police force shall be
minimum wage per hour while on active duty. The Chief of Police or someone
designated by him or her shall keep accurate records of the time worked by each
member of the auxiliary police force and shall report same to the City Clerk-
Treasurer biweekly after same has been approved by the Chief of Police, in the
event the payroll record is kept by someone designated by him or her. The
Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare vouchers payable out of the General Fund.
   (B)   The city will provide for accident and death benefits for the members
of the auxiliary police force by the purchase of standard casualty insurance
insuring such members while acting in the line of duty in service. The Mayor is
given authority and directed to take and carry a blanket accident insurance
policy for the benefits of the members of the auxiliary police force for the
purpose of protecting each and every member thereof from injuries or death
while on active duty. The amount of such policy shall provide a maximum of
$1,000 for death incurred by any member, $40 per week for disabling injuries
and hospital and medical expenses not to exceed $500, and the premium for such
policy shall be paid out of the General Fund of the city.
(1995 Code, § 36.43) (Ord. 0002, passed 12-7-1981)
§ 36.49 REVOCATION OF SPECIAL POLICE APPOINTMENTS.
   This subchapter revokes all permits, licenses, or other authorizations given
to persons appointing them as special police officers of the city. Said
revocation also acts as a revocation of any and all privileges, rights, and
duties which may have been conferred upon said special police.
(1995 Code, § 36.44) (Ord. 0002, passed 12-7-1981)
CHAPTER 37: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
37.01   Organization
   
37.02   Fire Chief
   
37.03   Assistant Fire Chiefs
   
37.04   Terms
   
37.05   Compensation
   
37.06   Firefighting apparel
   
37.07   Voluntary firefighters
   
37.08   Work week
   
37.09   Absences from duty
   
37.10   Performance of duties
   
37.11   Under the influence of alcohol while on duty
   
37.12   Promulgation of additional rules and regulations
   
37.13   Use of fire truck outside city
   
37.14   Disciplinary actions
   
37.15   Removal of officers
Fire Control Measures and Regulations
   
37.30   Purpose
   
37.31   Authority at fires and other emergencies
   
37.32   Interference with Fire Department operations
   
37.33   Compliance with orders
   
37.34   Vehicles crossing fire hose
   
37.35   Authorized emergency vehicle; operation of vehicles on approach thereof
   
37.36   Emergency vehicle operation
   
37.37   Vehicles following fire apparatus
   
37.38   Unauthorized boarding or tampering with emergency equipment; injury to
Department personnel
   
37.39   Blocking fire hydrants and connections
   
37.40   Hydrant use approval
   
37.41   Public water supply
   
37.42   Yard systems
   
37.43   Maintenance of fire suppression equipment
   
37.44   Sale of defective fire extinguishers
   
37.45   Street obstructions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.01 ORGANIZATION.
   The Fire Department of the city shall consist of a Fire Chief, three
Assistant Fire Chiefs, and such firefighters as the City Council shall
hereafter appoint upon a voluntary basis.
(1995 Code, § 37.01) (Ord. passed 1-7-1980)
§ 37.02 FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)    The Fire Chief shall perform the following duties in addition to any
other duties:
      (1)   Take custody of all equipment of the Fire Department and all tools
and other personal property of the city (excepting the motor vehicles employed
by the Police, Sanitation, and Street Departments), keep account thereof, and
make reports thereof from time to time when called upon by the Mayor and City
Council;
      (2)   Exercise the duties of custodian of the municipal building,
preserve order therein, and keep the same in clean and sanitary condition and
good state of repair and appearance;
      (3)   Act as, and perform the duties of, keeper of the city jail and
perform such duties usually performed by such jailer;
      (4)   Exercise the duties of operator of the police radio and telephone
during his or her hours of duty, which shall be not less than 12 hours each
day, and shall also be subject to answer any fire call at any time;
      (5)   Perform such duties as Fire Inspector as provided in ordinance
passed January 6, 1947; and
      (6)   Perform such other duties and comply with such other rules and
regulations heretofore prescribed by law, the Mayor, and City Council.
   (B)   In addition to his or her regular compensation as the City Council
shall hereafter fix from time to time, the city shall furnish the Fire Chief
with living quarters in the municipal building, including light, heat, and
water facilities therefor.
(1995 Code, § 37.02) (Ord. passed 1-3-1966)
§ 37.03 ASSISTANT FIRE CHIEFS.
   The Assistant Fire Chiefs shall assist the Fire Chief in the performance of
all duties and shall also act as operators of the police radio and telephone
while on duty, which shall be not less than 12 hours each day, and shall also
be subject to answer any fire calls at any time.
(1995 Code, § 37.03) (Ord. passed 1-3-1966)
§ 37.04 TERMS.
   The term of the Fire Chief and of each Assistant Fire Chief shall commence
January 7, 1980, and end on January 4, 1982, and shall so continue every two
years thereafter.
(1995 Code, § 37.04) (Ord. passed 1-7-1980)
§ 37.05 COMPENSATION.
   The salary of the Fire Chief is hereby fixed at $600 per month for all hours
worked, and the salary of each Assistant Fire Chief is fixed at $600 per month
for all hours worked.
(1995 Code, § 37.05) (Ord. passed 1-7-1980)
§ 37.06 FIREFIGHTING APPAREL.
   The city shall furnish members of the Fire Department with certain
firefighting apparel, the same to remain the property of the city.
(1995 Code, § 37.06) (Ord. passed 1-7-1980)
§ 37.07 VOLUNTARY FIREFIGHTERS.
   Voluntary firefighters shall be 18 years of age or over and shall serve at
the will and pleasure of the City Council and be paid such compensation as the
City Council shall hereafter prescribe.
(1995 Code, § 37.07) (Ord. passed 1-7-1980)
§ 37.08 WORK WEEK.
   Neither the Fire Chief, Assistant Fire Chiefs, or any member of the Fire
Department shall work in excess of eight hours during any work day nor more
than 40 hours during any work week unless so ordered and directed by the Mayor
and/or City Council.
(1995 Code, § 37.08) (Ord. passed 1-7-1980)
§ 37.09 ABSENCES FROM DUTY.
   All employees, including the Fire Chief, Assistant Fire Chiefs, or any
member of the Fire Department shall be subject to have their salaries deducted
from when the employee absents himself or herself from work for a day or more
for personal reasons, or for absences of a day or more occasioned by sickness
or disability.
(1995 Code, § 37.09) (Ord. passed 1-7-1980)
§ 37.10 PERFORMANCE OF DUTIES.
   Members of the Fire Department shall perform such other duties, and be
subject to the regulations and conditions, as prescribed by §§
37.02,
37.03,
37.11,
37.12,
37.14, and
37.15.
(1995 Code, § 37.10) (Ord. passed 1-7-1980)
§ 37.11 UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL WHILE ON DUTY.
   (A)   Members of the Fire Department shall be sober while on duty.
   (B)   Being under the influence of one alcoholic drink, large or small,
during prescribed hours of duty, shall be sufficient cause for dismissal from
the Fire Department, suspension from duty without pay, or other disciplinary
action by the Mayor and City Council.
(1995 Code, § 37.11) (Ord. passed 1-3-1966)
§ 37.12 PROMULGATION OF ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to supplement these regulations by
promulgating such additional rules and regulations as shall be reasonably
necessary or advisable for the proper functioning of the Fire Department and
facilities, and he or she shall prescribe the regular duty hours of each
officer of the Fire Department.
(1995 Code, § 37.12) (Ord. passed 1-3-1966)
§ 37.13 USE OF FIRE TRUCK OUTSIDE CITY.
   The fire truck of the city shall not be used to extinguish fires outside of
the city limits except where such fire endangers buildings within the city, and
with the further exception that, under a plan approved by the State Fire
Marshal, the fire truck may be taken to assist in extinguishing a fire in a
neighboring municipality, provided a third neighboring municipality sends a
fire truck to the city for fire protection therein while this city’s fire truck
is so engaged in the other municipality.
(1995 Code, § 37.13) (Res. passed 4-2-1962)
§ 37.14 DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS.
   The Mayor is hereby empowered to take proper disciplinary action against any
officer of the Fire Department guilty of violating any of the provisions of
this chapter, or violating any rule or regulation theretofore promulgated by
the Mayor, or guilty of absenteeism from duty, and he or she may suspend such
officer from duty without pay for a period of not exceeding seven days, or with
approval of the City Council in lawful session, he or she may suspend such
officer from duty without pay for a period in excess of seven days. In case of
such suspension or absence from regular duty, such officer’s monthly salary for
the month in which such suspension or absence from duty occurs shall be reduced
in the proportion which the day or days of suspension or absence from duty bear
to the days of duty within such monthly pay period.
(1995 Code, § 37.14) (Ord. passed 1-3-1966)
§ 37.15 REMOVAL OF OFFICERS.
   The Mayor and City Council, so far as they can legally do, reserve the right
to remove any or all officers of the Fire Department for good cause. Each said
officer hereafter appointed or employed by the city shall, by accepting such
office or employment, accept the provisions of this section as a part of his or
her contract of employment by the city, including this section, and consent
that he or she is subject to removal by the Mayor and City Council at any time
for legal cause after due hearing of charges preferred against him or her
therefor.
(1995 Code, § 37.15) (Ord. passed 1-3-1966)
FIRE CONTROL MEASURES AND REGULATIONS
§ 37.30 PURPOSE.
   The fire control measures and regulations as are set forth in this
subchapter shall be for the purpose of controlling conditions which could
impede or interfere with fire suppression forces.
(1995 Code, § 37.25) (Ord. 7811, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 37.31 AUTHORITY AT FIRES AND OTHER EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   The fire official or his or her duly authorized representatives, as
may be in charge at the scene of a fire or other emergency involving the
protection of life and/or property, is empowered to direct such operations as
may be necessary to extinguish or control any suspected or reported fires, gas
leaks, or other hazardous conditions or situations or of taking any other
action necessary in the reasonable performance of their duty.
   (B)   The fire official may prohibit any person, vehicle, or object from
approaching the scene and may remove or cause to be removed from the scene any
person, vehicle, or object which may impede or interfere with the operations of
the Fire Department.
   (C)   The fire official may remove or cause to be removed any person,
vehicle, or object from hazardous areas. All persons ordered to leave a
hazardous area shall do so immediately and shall not re-enter the area until
authorized to do so by the fire official.
(1995 Code, § 37.26) (Ord. 7811, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 37.32 INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE DEPARTMENT OPERATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to interfere with, attempt to interfere with, conspire
to interfere with, obstruct or restrict the mobility of, or block the path of
travel of any Fire Department emergency vehicle in any way, or to interfere
with, attempt to interfere with, conspire to interfere with, obstruct, or
hamper any Fire Department operation.
(1995 Code, § 37.27) (Ord. 7811, passed 11-14-1978) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 37.33 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDERS.
   A person shall not willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order
or direction of the fire official or to interfere with the compliance attempts
of another individual.
(1995 Code, § 37.28) (Ord. 7811, passed 11-14-1978) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 37.34 VEHICLES CROSSING FIRE HOSE.
   A vehicle shall not be driven or propelled over any unprotected fire hose of
the Fire Department when laid down on any street, alleyway, private drive, or
any other vehicular roadway without the consent of the fire official in command
of said operation.
(1995 Code, § 37.29) (Ord. 7811, passed 11-14-1978) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 37.35 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE; OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH
THEREOF.
   (A)   Authorized emergency vehicles shall be restricted to those which are
defined and authorized under the laws of the state.
   (B)    Upon the approach of any authorized emergency vehicle, giving audible
and visual signal, the operator of every other vehicle shall immediately drive
the same to a position as near as possible and parallel to the right-hand edge
or curb of the street or roadway, clear of any intersection, and shall stop and
remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle or vehicles
shall have passed, unless otherwise directed by the fire official or a police
officer.
(1995 Code, § 37.30) (Ord. 7811, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 37.36 EMERGENCY VEHICLE OPERATION.
   (A)   The driver of any emergency vehicle, as defined in §
37.35(A), shall not sound the siren thereon or have the front red lights on or
disobey any existing traffic regulation, except when said vehicle is responding
to an emergency call or when responding to, but not upon returning from, a
fire.
   (B)   Tactical strategies such as, but not restricted to, “move ups” do not
constitute an emergency call. The driver of an emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand irrespective of the provisions of existing traffic
regulations;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or other sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the prima facie speed limit so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property;
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions; or
      (5)   The exemptions herein granted to an emergency vehicle shall apply
only when the driver of any such vehicle while in motion sounds audible signal
by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary, and when the
vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted lamp displaying a red light
visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the
front of such vehicle.
(1995 Code, § 37.31) (Ord. 7811, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 37.37 VEHICLES FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle, other than one on
official business, to follow closer than 300 feet from any fire apparatus
traveling in response to a fire alarm, or to drive any vehicle within the block
or immediate area where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(1995 Code, § 37.32) (Ord. 7811, passed 11-14-1978) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 37.38 UNAUTHORIZED BOARDING OR TAMPERING WITH EMERGENCY EQUIPMENT; INJURY TO
DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL.
   (A)   A person shall not without proper authorization from the fire official
in charge of said Fire Department emergency equipment, cling to, attach himself
or herself to, climb upon or into, board, or swing upon any Fire Department
emergency vehicle, whether the same is in motion or at rest, or sound the
siren, horn, bell, or other sound-producing device thereon, or to manipulate or
tamper with, or attempt to manipulate or tamper with any levers, valves,
switches, starting devices, brakes, pumps, or any equipment or protective
clothing on, or a part of, any Fire Department emergency vehicle.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage or deface, or attempt,
or conspire to damage or deface, any Fire Department emergency vehicle at any
time, or to injure, or attempt to injure or conspire to injure, Fire Department
personnel while performing departmental duties.
(1995 Code, § 37.33) (Ord. 7811, passed 11-14-1978) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 37.39 BLOCKING FIRE HYDRANTS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to obscure from view, damage, deface, obstruct,
or restrict the access to any fire hydrant or any Fire Department connection
for the pressurization of fire suppression systems, including fire hydrants and
Fire Department connections that are located on public or private streets and
access lanes, or on private property.
   (B)   If upon the expiration of the time mentioned in a notice of violation,
obstructions or encroachments are not removed, the fire official shall proceed
to remove the same. Cost incurred in the performance of necessary work shall be
paid from the municipal treasury on certificate of the fire official and with
the approval of the chief administrative official; and the legal authority of
the municipality shall institute appropriate action for the recovery of such
costs.
(1995 Code, § 37.34) (Ord. 7811, passed 11-14-1978) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 37.40 HYDRANT USE APPROVAL.
   A person shall not use or operate any fire hydrant intended for use of the
Fire Department for fire suppression purposes unless such person first secures
a permit for such use from the fire official and the water company having
jurisdiction. This section shall not apply to the use of such hydrants by a
person employed by, and authorized to make such use by, the water company
having jurisdiction.
(1995 Code, § 37.35) (Ord. 7811, passed 11-14-1978) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 37.41 PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY.
   The fire official shall recommend to the chief administrative official of
the municipality the location or relocation of new or existing fire hydrants
and the placement or replacement of inadequate water mains located upon public
property and deemed necessary to provide an adequate fire flow and distribution
pattern. A fire hydrant shall not be placed into or removed from service until
approved by the fire official.
(1995 Code, § 37.36) (Ord. 7811, passed 11-14-1978) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 37.42 YARD SYSTEMS.
   All new and existing ship yards, oil storage plants, lumber yards, amusement
or exhibition parks, and educational or institutional complexes and similar
occupancies and uses involving high fire or life hazards, and which are located
more than 150 feet from a public street or which require quantities of water
beyond the capabilities of the public water distribution system, shall be
provided with properly placed fire hydrants. Such fire hydrants shall be
capable of supplying fire flows as required by the fire official and shall be
connected to a water system in accordance with accepted engineering practices.
The fire official shall designate and approve the number and location of fire
hydrants. The fire official may require the installation of sufficient fire
hose and equipment housed in accordance with the approved rules and may require
the establishment of a trained fire brigade when the hazard involved requires
such measures. Private hydrants shall not be placed into or removed from
service until approved by the fire official.
(1995 Code, § 37.37) (Ord. 7811, passed 11-14-1978) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 37.43 MAINTENANCE OF FIRE SUPPRESSION EQUIPMENT.
   A person shall not obstruct, remove, tamper with, or otherwise disturb any
fire hydrant or fire appliance required to be installed or maintained under the
provisions of the Fire Prevention Code except for the purpose of extinguishing
fire, training or testing purposes, recharging or making necessary repairs, or
when permitted by the fire official. Whenever a fire appliance is removed as
herein permitted, it shall be replaced or re-installed as soon as the purpose
for which it was removed has been accomplished. Defective and nonapproved fire
appliances or equipment shall be replaced or repaired as directed by the fire
official.
(1995 Code, § 37.38) (Ord. 7811, passed 11-14-1978) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 37.44 SALE OF DEFECTIVE FIRE EXTINGUISHERS.
   A person shall not sell, trade, loan, or give away any form, type, or kind
of fire extinguisher which is not approved by the fire official, or which is
not in proper working order, or the contents of which do not meet the
requirements of the fire official. The requirements of this section shall not
apply to the sale, trade, or exchange of obsolete or damaged equipment for junk
and said units are permanently disfigured or marked with permanent sign
identifying the unit as junk.
(1995 Code, § 37.39) (Ord. 7811, passed 11-14-1978) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 37.45 STREET OBSTRUCTIONS.
   A person shall not erect, construct, place, or maintain any bumps, fences,
gates, chains, bars, pipes, wood or metal horses, or any other type of
obstruction in or on any street, within the boundaries of the municipality.
STREET as used in this subchapter shall mean any roadway accessible to the
public for vehicular traffic, including, but not limited to, private streets or
access lanes, as well as all public streets and highways within the boundaries
of the municipality.
(1995 Code, § 37.40) (Ord. 7811, passed 11-14-1978) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 38: TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
38.01   County assessment adopted
   
38.02   Levy of ad valorem taxes
   
38.03   Moratorium on reassessment of property values for Main Street District
   
38.04   County Sheriff authorized to bill and collect taxes
Transient Room Tax
   
38.15   Transient room tax enacted
Tax on Restaurants
   
38.30   Restaurant tax imposed
   
38.31   Definition
   
38.32   Temporary food operations included
   
38.33   Amount of tax; due date
   
38.34   Collection and enforcement; penalty added
   
38.35   Tax in addition to other taxes
   
38.36   Records to be maintained
 
   
38.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 38.01 COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   The city shall use the property assessments of the County Property Valuation
Assessor as the basis for the city’s ad valorem taxes.
(1995 Code, § 38.01) (Ord. 0001, passed 12-7-1981)
§ 38.02 LEVY OF AD VALOREM TAXES.
   (A)   (1)   On each $100 of property of public service corporation, as
assessed and certified by the State Department of Revenue to the city for
purpose of taxation for each year as provided by KRS 136.120.
      (2)   On each $100 of all real property, tangible personal property, and
other property within the corporate limits of the city subject to taxation for
each year as assessed or hereafter assessed therefor by the City Tax Assessor,
Board of Tax Supervisions, PVA, and other proper assessing authorities,
including all omitted property hereafter assessed for said year, according to
law there are hereby levied and ordered collected ad valorem taxes for the
purposes as follows:
         (a)   For the purposes of defraying the general municipal expense of
the city; and
         (b)   For the purpose of establishing a revolving and contributing
fund as provided by KRS 61.420, 61.460, and 61.470 for payment to the State
Agency of Old Age and Survivors Insurance for all city employees under the
Social Security Act.
   (B)   A penalty of 10% of the amount of each tax bill for taxes levied and
payable hereafter which remains unpaid on January 31; a penalty increased to
16% of the amount of each tax bill for taxes levied and payable hereafter which
remains unpaid by February 28; and in addition thereto of any tax unpaid on
March 1, 6% interest from said date until paid, are hereby imposed and ordered
collected, said to be paid into the city’s General Fund when collected.
(1995 Code, § 38.02) (Ord. passed 10-12-1987)
§ 38.03 MORATORIUM ON REASSESSMENT OF PROPERTY VALUES FOR MAIN STREET DISTRICT.
   (A)   A program is established in which these properties in the Historic
Main Street District may qualify for a five-year moratorium on reassessment of
property value for the purpose of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   Properties which qualify for this program are those in the target
areas which, if commercial, are at least 25 years old and have improvements
made to them which equal at least 25% of the value of the property as shown on
the most recent assessment by the Property Valuation Office, and, if
residential, are at least 25 years old, provide independent living facilities
for at least one family and have improvements made to them which equal to 10%
of the value of the property as shown on the most recent assessment by the
Property Valuation Office.
   (C)   The agency which shall administer this program is the Main Street
Program or another entity which the City Council may designate from time to
time.
   (D)   The moratorium on reassessment shall be for the term of five years.
Application for the moratorium shall be made no more than 30 days prior to the
commencement of the improvement. Applications shall be submitted to the City
Clerk’s office with copies to Main Street Pineville. Value of the improvements
shall be fully documented by the applicant. The applicant shall have no more
than two years to complete the project.
   (E)   There shall be no fee for applications for reassessment moratorium.
(Ord. passed 10-12-2015)
§ 38.04 COUNTY SHERIFF AUTHORIZED TO BILL AND COLLECT TAXES.
   (A)   All taxes levied on real and personal property, including delinquent
taxes, set forth in an ordinance setting tax rates by the City Council shall be
billed and collected by the Bell County Sheriff as of the tax year 2020.
   (B)   The Bell County Sheriff shall be compensated for said tax collections
in accordance with terms set forth in an interlocal agreement between the city
and county.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2020)
TRANSIENT ROOM TAX
§ 38.15 TRANSIENT ROOM TAX ENACTED.
   A 3% transient room tax is hereby enacted on the rent for every occupancy of
a suite, room, or rooms, charged by all persons, companies, corporations, or
other like or similar persons, groups, or organizations doing business as motor
courts, motels, hotels, inns, or like or similar accommodations or businesses.
(1995 Code, § 38.15) (Ord. passed 1-12-1995)
Cross-references:
   Collection and enforcement of tax, see §
38.34
   Due date of tax, see §
38.33
TAX ON RESTAURANTS
§ 38.30 RESTAURANT TAX IMPOSED.
   There is hereby imposed and levied, pursuant to KRS 91A.400, a tax of 3% of
the gross retail sales of restaurants doing business within the city.
(1995 Code, § 38.25) (Ord. passed 1-12-1995; Ord. passed 8-27-2020)
§ 38.31 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RESTAURANT. 
      (1)   Any fixed or mobile commercial establishment that engages in the
preparation and serving of ready to eat foods in portions to the consumer,
including, but not limited to: grills; tearooms; sandwich shops; soda
fountains; taverns; bars; cocktail lounges; nightclubs; roadside stands; street
vendors; catering kitchens; commissaries; or similar places in which food is
prepared for sale for consumption on the premises or elsewhere.
      (2)   It does not include schools, food vending machines, establishments
serving beverages only in single service or original containers, or retail food
markets which only cut, slice, and prepare cold-cut sandwiches for individual
consumption.
(1995 Code, § 38.26) (Ord. passed 1-12-1995; Ord. passed 8-27-2020)
§ 38.32 TEMPORARY FOOD OPERATIONS INCLUDED.
   Temporary food stands, booths, street concessions, and similar type
operations, whether operated by non-profit corporations or not, when food is
prepared and sold for immediate consumption, are not exempt from this tax.
(1995 Code, § 38.27) (Ord. passed 1-12-1995; Ord. passed 8-27-2020)
Cross-reference:
   Mobile food vendors, see
Ch. 115
§ 38.33 AMOUNT OF TAX; DUE DATE.
   On and after February 1, 1995, every person, company, corporation, or other
like or similar persons, groups, or organizations doing business as restaurants
located in the city or offering transient rooms therein as described §
38.15 shall pay monthly to the City Treasurer a tax of 3% of the gross retail
sales or total rent collected by them during the preceding month. Such tax
shall be due and payable to the City Treasurer 20 days after the last day of
each month, together with a return on a form furnished by or obtained from the
City Treasurer, setting forth an aggregate amount of gross retail sales or
total rent charged and collected during the period to which the tax applies,
together with such other pertinent information as the Treasurer may require.
(1995 Code, § 38.28) (Ord. passed 1-12-1995; Ord. passed 8-27-2020) Penalty,
see §
38.99
§ 38.34 COLLECTION AND ENFORCEMENT; PENALTY ADDED.
   The collection and enforcement of any tax imposed by this subchapter shall
be carried out by the City Clerk or other designated agent of the city. Any tax
imposed by this subchapter which shall remain unpaid after it becomes due, as
set forth herein, shall have added to it a penalty of 10%, together with
interest at the rate of 6% against the total amount of tax overdue at any time.
After 60 days, the amount of penalty shall be compounded each month. These
penalties are the same as those for late payments of city occupational taxes.
(1995 Code, § 38.29) (Ord. passed 1-12-1995; Ord. passed 8-27-2020)
§ 38.35 TAX IN ADDITION TO OTHER TAXES.
   The tax imposed herein shall be in addition to other general taxes and the
occupational or business license taxes payable to the city.
(1995 Code, § 38.31) (Ord. passed 1-12-1995; Ord. passed 8-27-2020)
§ 38.36 RECORDS TO BE MAINTAINED.
   It will be the responsibility of the taxpayer to maintain books, records,
and papers in support of all amounts reported on the monthly return, and the
city will be permitted to examine the books, records, and papers of the
taxpayer upon notification in writing to the taxpayer.
(1995 Code, § 38.32) (Ord. passed 1-12-1995; Ord. passed 8-27-2020) Penalty,
see §
38.99
§ 38.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall purposefully refuse to file a return, pay the tax due,
or who shall knowingly file a false or fraudulent return required in §§
38.15 and
38.33 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor subject to a fine of not more than $100
for each violation, imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or both.
(1995 Code, § 38.99) (Ord. passed 1-12-1995; Ord. passed 8-27-2020)
CHAPTER 39: PERSONNEL REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
39.01   Employees to pay city taxes
   
39.02   Disposition and official use of city vehicles
   
39.03   Wearing uniforms unless on special assignments
   
39.04   Social Security
   
39.05   Seatbelt requirement
Comprehensive Personnel System
   
39.20   Adoption by reference
Affirmative Action Plan
   
39.35   Statement of policy; dissemination
   
39.36   Personnel actions
   
39.37   Workforce analysis
   
39.38   Implementation of plan
   
39.39   Grievance procedure
Section 3 Plan
   
39.50   Affirmative action in Section 3
 
   
39.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 39.01 EMPLOYEES TO PAY CITY TAXES.
   To be eligible for employment by the city any prospective employee must have
any and all city taxes paid currently as of the time of applying for employment
and must keep all such taxes paid during the term of his or her employment. As
used herein, taxes shall include ad valorem taxes, auto privilege licenses, and
occupational taxes.
(1995 Code, § 39.01) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979)
§ 39.02 DISPOSITION AND OFFICIAL USE OF CITY VEHICLES.
   All city vehicles, when not in official use, shall be parked in the
municipal parking lot. No city vehicle shall be used for any purpose other than
official city business. Suspected violations of any provision of this section
will be reason enough to cause an investigation of the activity by City Council
as permitted in KRS 83A.130(13).
(1995 Code, § 39.02) (Ord. passed 1-7-1985)
§ 39.03 WEARING UNIFORMS UNLESS ON SPECIAL ASSIGNMENTS.
   All city employees with uniforms shall wear their uniforms unless on special
assignment.
(1995 Code, § 39.03) (Motion passed 4-10-1978)
§ 39.04 SOCIAL SECURITY.
   (A)   From and after December 5, 1955, all persons representing the city, in
the capacity of regular employees of said city, and all elective officers of
said city, shall be and are now declared to be eligible to obtain, be given,
and accept the benefit of all state and federal Social Security statutes and
regulations.
   (B)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall forthwith communicate with the
Department of Economic Security, Division of Personal Security at Frankfort,
Kentucky executing and forwarding to it all necessary forms and documents and
ascertain the amount of funds that will be required to put this section in
operation; and that having obtained such information, he or she will obtain
from the city treasury a check for the necessary amount, and forward it to said
Department and Division.
   (C)   The City Treasurer is directed to draw such a check on demand of the
City Clerk-Treasurer against moneys in the General Fund of the city; and
hereafter to deduct from the compensation of any such employees any monthly
amount that the employee may have to contribute to the Social Security Fund,
forwarding such sums to said Department and Division each month in payment of
the premiums due by each employee to said fund for the previous month.
(1995 Code, § 39.04) (Ord. passed 12-5-1955)
§ 39.05 SEATBELT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person in the employment of the city shall not operate a motor
vehicle owned, maintained, or otherwise under the control of the city, on any
public roadway unless the driver and all passengers are wearing a properly
adjusted and fastened seatbelt.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a person who has in
his or her possession at the time of the conduct in question a written
statement from a physician or licensed chiropractor that he or she is unable,
for medical or physical reasons, to wear a seatbelt.
(Ord. passed 9-22-2009) Penalty, see §
39.99
COMPREHENSIVE PERSONNEL SYSTEM
§ 39.20 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   (1)   The comprehensive personnel system of the city, including
policies and procedures and classification and compensation, as well as any
applicable state and federal laws, are hereby adopted by reference and shall be
the system of personnel administration for the city. The system may be altered
or amended only by ordinance.
      (2)   All subsequent amendments to the personnel manual shall be in
amendment form, setting forth the part(s) and section(s) affected.
      (3)   All employment positions of the city shall be established as set
forth in the policies section and made a part of this personnel manual.
   (B)   The city’s drug-free workplace policy, copies of which are on file in
the office of the City Clerk, is adopted and incorporated as part of this code
of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
   (C)   Amendments to the city’s personnel policy, copies of which are on file
in the office of the City Clerk, are adopted and incorporated as part of this
code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(1995 Code, § 39.15) (Ord. passed 9-15-1994; Ord. passed 1-9-2012; Order passed
10-8-2012; Res. passed 10-10-2016; Ord. passed 3-12-2018; Ord. passed 1-13-
2020)
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PLAN
§ 39.35 STATEMENT OF POLICY; DISSEMINATION.
   (A)   The affirmative action policy of the city is to promote equal
employment opportunity; to prohibit discrimination in city employment on
account of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, or handicapped
status not related to performance of the job; and to bring about a fair
representation and utilization of females and minorities on all levels of city
employment.
   (B)   The city will advise all employees and applicants for employment of
this policy and will make known to the public that employment opportunities are
available on the basis of individual ability and will encourage all persons who
are employed by the city to strive for advancement on that basis.
(1995 Code, § 39.30) (Res. passed 10-24-1977)
§ 39.36 PERSONNEL ACTIONS.
   The city will take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are
recruited and employed and that employees are treated during their employment
without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, or
handicapped status not related to ability to perform the job, and such
affirmative action shall include all terms and conditions of employment such as
hiring, placement, upgrading, demotion, transfer, layoff, and termination.
(1995 Code, § 39.31) (Res. passed 10-24-1977)
§ 39.37 WORKFORCE ANALYSIS.
   (A)   Survey of labor market. The city has determined that the labor market
in which it operates is the county. The latest reliable data that shows the
utilization of females and minorities by job category is the 1970 general
census. This information is set forth in Schedule B as is adopted by reference.
   (B)   City workforce. A survey was made of current employment by the city
(Schedule A as is adopted by reference) and the number of women and minorities
employed by the city in each job category was compared with those available in
the workforce of the community. The percentage of such employees in the
community was multiplied by the total city employees in each job category to
determine the number required for fair selection.
   (C)   Goals and timetables.
      (1)   The city examined each category in which the number of females and
minorities were fewer than the number required for fair selection. Appropriate
goals for women (Schedule C as is adopted by reference) and for minorities
(Schedule D as is adopted by reference) were established to bring the city’s
utilization to a level comparable to the community workforce. Timetables were
based on the anticipated annual job openings in each category.
      (2)   Where a disparity exists between the percentage of a protected
group in the community population and the percentage in the community
workforce, the goals are adjusted to overcome this disparity. The goal of fair
utilization of minorities and females in each category is to be met within the
next five years through the personnel procedures established by this plan
without discrimination of any kind. The maintenance of this policy will be a
continuing effort.
(1995 Code, § 39.32) (Res. passed 10-24-1977)
§ 39.38 IMPLEMENTATION OF PLAN.
   It is understood that implementation of this affirmative action plan is an
ongoing process which will make the plan a living, effective document.
   (A)   Responsibility. The Chief Executive Officer shall designate an Equal
Employment Opportunity (EEO) Coordinator who shall be responsible for
implementation of this affirmative action plan and shall have authority to
require department heads to furnish such information as is necessary to keep
current forms and reports.
   (B)   Duties. The EEO Coordinator shall disseminate the city’s equal
employment opportunity policy as set forth in the plan; maintain current job
classifications and minimum requirements based on the tasks to be performed by
each position, an updated workforce analysis (Schedules B and C as are adopted
by reference), and applicant flow chart and job roster; (AAP-3, AAP-4 as are
adopted by reference) and receive EEO progress reports (AAP-5 as are adopted by
reference) from each department and prepare a consolidated report for the
entire city government.
   (C)   Reports. The EEO Coordinator shall monitor the operation of this plan
and shall prepare a consolidated progress report (AAP-5 as is adopted by
reference) for the Chief Executive Officer quarterly together with indications
of problem area and recommendations for solutions. The Chief Executive Officer
shall prepare an annual written report for the City Council.
(1995 Code, § 39.33) (Res. passed 10-24-1977)
§ 39.39 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
   Any employee who believes he or she has been adversely affected by an act or
decision of the supervisory or managerial personnel of the city and that such
act or decision was based on race, color, sex, age, religion, national origin,
or handicapped condition shall have the right to process a complaint or
grievance in accordance with the following procedure.
   (A)   Employees.
      (1)   Step one.
         (a)   Informal. An aggrieved employee and the immediate supervisor
shall discuss the claim with the objective of resolving the matter informally.
         (b)   Formal. If the grievance is not adjusted informally, both the
aggrieved employee and the supervisor shall meet with the head of the
department as soon as practicable. The employee and the supervisor shall each
present the claim which shall be reduced to writing by the department head and
initialed by the employee and the supervisor. The department head shall make a
decision on the grievance immediately and the decision shall be reduced to
writing within two days thereafter and a copy furnished the employee and the
supervisor.
      (2)   Step two. If the aggrieved employee is not satisfied with the
decision of the department head, the grievance shall be submitted to the Chief
Executive Officer within five working days after the decision. The employee
shall notify the Chief Executive Officer of the intent to be heard on the
grievance and the Chief Executive Officer shall immediately set a time for the
hearing and notify the employee and department head. The employee may present
any witnesses desired and may be represented by any person of his or her
choosing at the hearing. The Chief Executive Officer shall render a written
decision on the grievance within ten days after the hearing.
      (3)   Step three. An aggrieved employee who is not satisfied with the
written decision of the Chief Executive Officer may appeal the decision to the
City Council or other designated agency at either of the next two regular
meetings following the decision or at any special meeting called for that
purpose. The appeal shall be in writing with a list of witnesses to be called
and filed with the Clerk of the agency not less than 72 hours prior to the
meeting. The agency shall require the attendance and testimony of any employees
listed and shall hear the testimony of any employees listed and shall hear the
testimony of the employee, the Chief Executive Officer, and any witnesses
presented. The agency shall issue a written decision on the appeal within 15
days and the decision shall be final.
   (B)   Nonemployees. Any prospective employee or applicant for employment who
is denied employment with the city and believes that denial was based in whole
or in part on the race, religion, sex, or physical condition of the applicant,
he or she may file a written complaint with the Chief Executive Officer who
shall make every effort to resolve the matter impartially and expeditiously.
The appeal procedure of step three in division (A)(3) above is also available
to such grievant.
(1995 Code, § 39.34) (Res. passed 10-24-1977)
SECTION 3 PLAN
§ 39.50 AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN SECTION 3.
   (A)   The city agrees to implement the following specific affirmative action
steps directed at increasing opportunities for training and employment for
lower income residents of the project area, and increasing the utilization of
business concerns within the Section 3 covered area or owned by Section 3 area
residents:
      (1)   To identify projected work force needs for all phases of the
program by occupation, trade, skill level, and number of positions and to
develop utilization goals for the employment of lower income project area
residents for each;
      (2)   To attempt to recruit from within the city the requisite number of
project area residents through: local advertising media; posted signs; and
community organizations and public and private institutions operating within or
serving the project area;
      (3)   To identify eligible business concerns for CDBG-assisted contracts
through: the Chamber of Commerce; the Urban League; local advertising median
including public signage; project area committees; citizen advisory boards;
lists available through CDBG program officials; regional planning agencies; and
all other appropriate referral sources;
      (4)   To maintain a list of eligible business concerns for utilization in
CDBG-funded procurements, to ensure that all appropriate project area business
concerns are notified of pending contractual opportunities, and to make
available this list for general city procurement needs;
      (5)   To require all bidders on contracts to submit a written Section 3
Plan including utilization goals and the specific steps planned to accomplish
these goals;
      (6)   To ensure that contracts which are typically let on a negotiated
rather than a bid basis in areas other than Section 3 covered project areas are
also let on a negotiated basis, whenever feasible, when let in a Section 3
covered project area;
      (7)   To maintain records, including copies of correspondence, memoranda,
and the like, which document that all of the above affirmative action steps
have been taken; and
      (8)   To appoint or recruit an executive official of the city as Equal
Opportunity Officer to coordinate the implementation of this Section 3 Plan.
   (B)   As officers and representatives of the city, we the undersigned have
read and fully agree to this Affirmative Action Plan, and become a party to the
full implementation of this program.
(Res. passed 10-10-2016)
§ 39.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of §
39.05 shall result in the following disciplinary action:
      (1)   First offense: verbal warning;
      (2)   Second offense: written reprimand placed in the employee’s
personnel file;
      (3)   Third offense: administrative leave, without pay, for a time period
to be three days; and
      (4)   Forth offense: disciplinary action to be determined by the city up
to and including dismissal of employment from the city.
(Ord. passed 9-22-2009)
CHAPTER 40: CITY POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
40.01   Grievance procedure relating to handicapped discrimination
   
40.02   Carrying concealed weapons
   
40.03   Cumberland Valley Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan
   
40.04   Title VI Implementation Plan
No Smoking Policy
   
40.15   Smoking prohibited in city buildings
   
40.16   Definitions
   
40.17   Reasonable distance
   
40.18   Where smoking is not regulated
   
40.19   Signage
   
40.20   Enforcement
   
40.21   Conflict of law
   
40.22   Notice to employees
 
   
40.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 40.01 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE RELATING TO HANDICAPPED DISCRIMINATION.
   (A)   The procedures attached to Ord. passed 4-9-1984 shall be “grievance
procedures” for anyone who believes he or she has been discriminated against by
the city based on handicapped status with respect to federally funded programs.
   (B)   The administration of those procedures and related federal and state
regulations shall be the responsibility of the Executive Authority of the city.
   (C)   These procedures may be amended by ordinance to comply with court
directives or additional federal and state regulations.
(1995 Code, § 40.01) (Ord. passed 4-9-1984)
§ 40.02 CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall carry a concealed deadly weapon into the buildings of
the city.
   (B)   BUILDINGS as used herein, means the City Hall Buildings, Police
Department, Street Department Maintenance Garage, and Fire Department.
   (C)   Persons violating this section may be denied entrance to the premises,
ordered to leave the premises, and if employees of the city violate this
section, shall be subject to employee disciplinary measures for violation of
this section.
   (D)   The areas in which the carrying of concealed deadly weapons is
prohibited shall be clearly identified by signs posted at the entrance to the
restricted area.
   (E)   This section shall not apply to any building used for public housing
by private persons, highway rest areas, firing ranges, private dwellings owned,
leased, or controlled by the city, or to any building or property not
specifically identified as “buildings” herein.
(Ord. passed 3-26-1997)
§ 40.03 CUMBERLAND VALLEY REGIONAL HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   The city hereby:
   (A)   Adopts the Cumberland Valley Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan as the
official Hazard Mitigation Plan of the city;
   (B)   Vests the Cumberland Valley Area Development District with the
responsibility, authority, and the means to:
      (1)   Inform all concerned parties of this action; and
      (2)   Develop an addendum to this Hazard Mitigation Plan if the
jurisdiction’s unique situation warrants such an addendum.
   (C)   Appoints the Cumberland Valley Regional Mitigation Council to assure
the Hazard Mitigation Plan is reviewed according to the Plan Maintenance
Procedures in § 3.5 of the Plan and that any need adjustment to the Plan be
developed and presented to the Bell County Local Mitigation Committee and to
the city for consideration; and
   (D)   Agrees to consider any other official actions, as may be reasonably
necessary to carry out the objectives of the Cumberland Valley Regional Hazard
Mitigation Plan of the city.
(Res. passed 1-14-2013)
§ 40.04 TITLE VI IMPLEMENTATION PLAN.
   The city, as mandated by Senate Bill 248, KRS Chapter 344.015, does hereby
adopt the attached Title VI Implementation Plan by reference that will apply to
all city projects and/or programs that receive federal funding either directly
or indirectly. A copy of this Plan is found in the Clerk’s office.
(Res. passed 10-10-2016)
NO SMOKING POLICY
§ 40.15 SMOKING PROHIBITED IN CITY BUILDINGS.
   Smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed areas within all enclosed
buildings that are city owned, operated, leased, maintained, or controlled.
(Ord. passed 6-1-2016) Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Includes all city owned, operated, leased, maintained, or
controlled buildings.
   EMPLOYER. Includes a person, business, partnership, association, and
corporation, including a municipal corporation, trust, or non-profit entity
that employs the services of one or more individuals.
   ENCLOSED. When used in reference to an area or building, or portion thereof,
means closed in on all sides from floor to ceiling by solid walls, with or
without windows and exclusive of doorways.
   ENCLOSED BUILDINGS. Include the below if city owned, operated, leased,
maintained, or controlled, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Areas available to and customarily used by the general public in
businesses;
      (2)   Bars;
      (3)   Bingo facilities;
      (4)   Child care and adult care facilities;
      (5)   Convention facilities;
      (6)   Educational facilities, both public and private;
      (7)   Elevators;
      (8)   Gaming facilities;
      (9)   Healthcare facilities;
      (10)   Hotels and motels;
      (11)   Libraries;
      (12)   Lobbies, hallways, and other common areas in apartment buildings,
condominiums, retirement facilities, nursing homes, and other multiple-unit
residential facilities;
      (13)   Municipal governmental facilities, including buildings and
vehicles;
      (14)   Polling places;
      (15)   Pool and billiard halls;
      (16)   Public transportation facilities, including buses and taxicabs,
and ticket, boarding, and waiting areas of public transit depots;
      (17)   Restaurants;
      (18)   Restrooms, lobbies, reception areas, hallways, and other common-
use areas;
      (19)   Retail establishments;
      (20)   Service lines;
      (21)   Shopping malls;
      (22)   Sports arenas; and
      (23)   Theaters and other facilities primarily used for exhibiting motion
pictures, stage dramas, lectures, musical recitals, or other similar
performances.
   PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT. An enclosed area that is city owned, operated, leased,
maintained, or controlled where employees work or to which employees have
access during the course of employment, including, but not limited to, work
areas, private offices, employee lounges, restrooms, conference rooms, meetings
rooms, classrooms, employee cafeterias, hallways, and vehicles.
   PRIVATE RESIDENCE. Not a “public place” unless used as a childcare, adult
day care, or health care facility and is city owned, operated, leased,
maintained, or controlled.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted cigar,
cigarette, pipe, or other lighted tobacco product in any manner or in any form.
(Ord. passed 6-1-2016)
§ 40.17 REASONABLE DISTANCE.
   Smoking is prohibited within 25 feet outside entrances, exits, or wheelchair
ramps serving any entrance or exit, operable windows, and ventilation systems
of enclosed areas where smoking is prohibited, so as to ensure that tobacco
smoke does not enter those areas. This section shall not apply to restaurant
and bar outdoor seating areas.
(Ord. passed 6-1-2016) Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.18 WHERE SMOKING IS NOT REGULATED.
   Smoking is not regulated and the following areas are exempt from the above
provisions of this subchapter:
   (A)   Private residences, except when used as a childcare, adult day care,
or healthcare facility and are city owned, operated, leased, maintained, or
controlled;
   (B)   (1)   City owned, operated, leased, maintained, or controlled hotel
and motel rooms that are rented to guests and are designated as smoking rooms;
provided, however, that not more than 35% of rooms rented to guests in a hotel
or motel may be so designated.
      (2)   All smoking rooms on the same floor must be contiguous, and smoke
from these rooms must not infiltrate into areas where smoking is prohibited
under the provisions of this subchapter. The status of rooms as smoking or non-
smoking may not be changed, except to add additional non-smoking rooms;
   (C)   City owned, operated, leased, maintained, or controlled private and
semi-private rooms in nursing homes and long-term care facilities that are
occupied by one or more persons, all of whom are smokers and have requested in
writing to be placed in a room where smoking is permitted, provided that smoke
from these places does not infiltrate into areas where smoking is prohibited
under the provisions of this subchapter; and
   (D)   City owned, operated, leased, maintained, or controlled retail tobacco
stores, provided that smoke from these establishments does not infiltrate into
areas where smoking is prohibited under the provisions of this subchapter.
RETAIL TOBACCO STORES are retail stores that derive 80% or more of their gross
sales from the sale of tobacco products.
(Ord. passed 6-1-2016)
§ 40.19 SIGNAGE.
   (A)   All city owned, operated, leased, maintained, or controlled building
shall have clearly and conspicuously posted “No Smoking” signs or the
international “No Smoking” symbol (consisting of pictorial representation of a
burning cigarette enclosed in a red circle with a red bar across it) in every
public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited by this
subchapter.
   (B)   Signs shall be clearly and conspicuously posted at every entrance to
all city owned, operated, leased, maintained, or controlled buildings stating
that smoking is prohibited therein.
   (C)   All ashtrays shall be removed from any area where smoking is
prohibited by this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 6-1-2016) Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be enforced by the city’s Police
Department and/or the City Building Inspector.
(Ord. passed 6-1-2016)
§ 40.21 CONFLICT OF LAW.
   This subchapter shall not be interpreted or construed to permit smoking
where it is otherwise restricted by other applicable laws.
(Ord. passed 6-1-2016)
§ 40.22 NOTICE TO EMPLOYEES.
   All employers shall communicate the prohibition of smoking in places of
employment enacted by this subchapter to all existing employees within 60 days
after the effective date of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 6-1-2016)
§ 40.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   A person commits an offense if he or she is smoking in an area
where smoking is prohibited by the provisions of §§
40.15 through
40.22;
      (2)   It shall be the duty of every person in control of an area where
smoking is prohibited by the provisions of §§
40.15 through
40.22 to request any person known to be smoking in such area to extinguish the
burning tobacco product. Any knowing or intentional failure to maintain
compliance with such duty shall constitute an offense; and
      (3)   Whenever in §§
40.15 through
40.22 an act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense,
or whenever in §§
40.15 through
40.22 the doing of any thing or act is required or the failure to do any thing
or act is prohibited, the violation of the provision shall be and constitute a
violation punishable, upon conviction, by a fine not to exceed $200. Each
violation shall constitute and be punishable as a separate offense. Prosecution
or conviction under this provision is cumulative of and shall never be a bar to
any other civil or administrative remedy provided or allowed in §§
40.15 through
40.22 or by law.
(Ord. passed 6-1-2016)
CHAPTER 41: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
   
41.01   Code of Ethics adopted by reference
§ 41.01 CODE OF ETHICS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The City Code of Ethics, as required by KRS Chapter 65, is hereby adopted by
reference as if fully set forth herein for the city. A copy of the Code of
Ethics and amendments to the Code shall be available for public inspection at
the office of the City Clerk.
(1995 Code, § 41.01) (Ord. passed 11-18-1994; Ord. passed 2-13-1995; Ord.
passed 4-2-2002)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   PUBLIC UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   GARBAGE
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: PUBLIC UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Consolidation and centralization of collections for water service,
sewer service, and garbage collection service
Safety Standards
   
50.15   Definitions
   
50.16   Prohibitions
   
50.17   Stop work order
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Building regulations, see
Ch. 150
   Sewers, see
Ch. 52
   Water, see
Ch. 53
   Zoning Code, see
Ch. 154
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 CONSOLIDATION AND CENTRALIZATION OF COLLECTIONS FOR WATER SERVICE,
SEWER SERVICE, AND GARBAGE COLLECTION SERVICE.
   The collection of sewer service charges, garbage collection charges, and
water service charges shall be made from the building known as the Pineville
Water Company offices situated on Park Avenue.
(1995 Code, § 50.01) (Ord. passed 7-20-1972)
SAFETY STANDARDS
§ 50.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENTERING MANHOLE. The act of removal of a manhole cover and entrance into
the manhole for any purpose.
   MANHOLE. An underground cavity containing public utility facilities with
access to same accomplished by the removal of a manhole cover at street,
sidewalk, or ground level.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any company, concern, or individual in the communication,
electricity, gas, water, or steam heat distribution business.
(1995 Code, § 50.15) (Ord. passed 3-14-1966)
§ 50.16 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No public utility employee shall remove a manhole cover and enter such
manhole for any purpose without another employee or a public officer guarding
the manhole.
   (B)   No public utility supervisor shall order an employee to open and enter
a manhole which is unguarded, or at any time or place when a rope of life line
is not attached to the person entering the manhole.
(1995 Code, § 50.16) (Ord. passed 3-14-1966) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.17 STOP WORK ORDER.
   Any public officer who finds a violation of any provisions of this
subchapter shall obtain all necessary information and shall order the cessation
of the work operation until the provisions of this subchapter are in
compliance.
(1995 Code, § 50.17) (Ord. passed 3-14-1966)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any public utility supervisor violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $200, or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days or both, each violation thereof being treated as a separate
offense.
   (B)   Any public utility employee violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $100, or imprisoned for not
more than 30 days or both, each violation thereof being treated as a separate
offense.
(1995 Code, § 50.99) (Ord. passed 3-14-1966)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE
Section
   
51.01   City to contract for collection service
   
51.02   Disposal or removal of brush and lawn clippings
§ 51.01 CITY TO CONTRACT FOR COLLECTION SERVICE.
   (A)   In order to provide for the collection and disposal of all solid waste
within the limits of the city, the city will enter into a contract with one or
more private solid waste disposal services.
   (B)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to execute a contract on
behalf of the city for the pickup and disposal of solid waste in accordance
with the provisions of state statutes, the regulations of the State Department
of Health, this chapter, and the regulations of the city.
   (C)   The solid waste pickup and disposal contracts shall be commenced for
such periods of time and under such terms and conditions as determined by the
Mayor. Renegotiations or extensions or renewals of contracts involving any
increase in cost to the city or the service fee charged shall be approved by
the City Council. All contracts shall be made subject to the contractor
securing and retaining all necessary state permits.
(1995 Code, § 51.01)
§ 51.02 DISPOSAL OR REMOVAL OF BRUSH AND LAWN CLIPPINGS.
   (A)   The city or its agent, shall provide a pickup service for the removal
of brush, lawn clippings, and small trash items, as defined by this section,
from households, during times determined by the city.
   (B)   BRUSH and LAWN CLIPPINGS are defined as weeds, leaves, grass
clippings, dead flowers and plants, small tree trunks, pruned branches and
stems, small tree limbs, dirt, roots, wood shavings and rocks, or dead
Christmas trees.
   (C)   Tree limbs, not exceeding three feet in length and one inch in
diameter, must be tied in bundles which can be readily handled and loaded by
one person.
   (D)   All brush or lawn clippings as defined above to be collected must be
placed in boxes or containers sturdy enough to be handled by the collector; the
total loaded weight of each container not to exceed 50 pounds per carton.
Leaves shall be placed in lawn bags and shall not exceed 30 pounds. Such items
shall be placed at the curb or alley line no earlier than the day preceding a
set collection day or at the time the call for a collection request is placed
by city resident. The city reserves the right to handle only those items that
conform to this section. Any material that does not conform to these
regulations shall become the responsibility of the resident to properly dispose
of as authorized herein.
   (E)   The city may impose additional charges upon the resident for tree
limbs exceeding the length and diameter stated above or for brush and the like,
not bundled or placed in a box/container as stated above. The city may impose
additional charges upon the resident for disposal or removal of more than five
leaf bags or any bag exceeding the weight limit as stated above.
   (F)   (1)   In the instance of a contractor being hired by a resident for
brush, lawn clippings, or debris removal, it shall be the sole responsibility
of the contractor to remove such debris and the city shall not remove such
brush, lawn clippings, or debris under any circumstance.
      (2)   CONTRACTOR is anyone employed to work on a property, regardless if
for a fee or not, that does not own the property and is not a co-habitant or an
immediate relative of the property owner, and whose work on the property
results in debris that exceeds one standard truck bed load of brush and lawn
clippings or exceeds any other quantitative or material limitations as set
forth by this section.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2018)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Purpose; objectives; policy
   
52.002   Titles
   
52.003   Definitions
   
52.004   Abbreviations
   
52.005   Sewer districts
   
52.006   Damaging, destroying waterworks facilities prohibited
   
52.007   Liability of violator for damages
   
52.008   Falsification of documents prohibited
Use of Public Sewers
   
52.020   Suitable toilet facilities required
   
52.021   Privies and the like to be connected to city sewer system
   
52.022   Sanitary sewer service outside city limits
   
52.023   Unlawful discharge to storm sewers or natural outlets
   
52.024   Discharge of wastewater to be in compliance with local, state, and
federal laws
   
52.025   Discharge of unpolluted waters into sewer
   
52.026   Prohibited discharges
Private Wastewater Disposal
   
52.040   Connection of building sewer when public sanitary system not
available; exception
   
52.041   Installation requirements
Building Sewers; Connections and Maintenance
   
52.055   Building sewer permits required
   
52.056   Users to notify city of changes in discharges
   
52.057   Disturbance to public sewer without written permission prohibited
   
52.058   Prohibited connections
   
52.059   Design and installation
   
52.060   Inspection and testing of connections
   
52.061   Maintenance of connection
Pollutant Discharge Limits
   
52.075   General conditions
   
52.076   Restricted discharges
   
52.077   Dilution of wastewater discharge
   
52.078   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
   
52.079   Special industrial pretreatment requirements
   
52.080   Protection from accidental discharge
   
52.081   Written notice; notice to employees
   
52.082   State requirements to rule
   
52.083   Commission’s right of revision
   
52.084   Federal categorical pretreatment standards to rule
   
52.085   Modification of federal categorical pretreatment standards
Pretreatment Program Administration
   
52.100   Discharge without permit prohibited
   
52.101   Permit application
   
52.102   Issuance of permit
   
52.103   Permit modifications
   
52.104   Permit conditions
   
52.105   Permit duration; modification
   
52.106   Permit transfer
   
52.107   Compliance data reporting
   
52.108   Periodic compliance reports
   
52.109   Monitoring facilities
   
52.110   Inspection and sampling
   
52.111   Pretreatment regulations; publication of violations
   
52.112   Confidential information
Fees
   
52.125   Purpose
   
52.126   Establishment of charges
Charges
   
52.140   Purpose
   
52.141   Sewer Revenues Fund
   
52.142   User charge; debt service charge; and surcharge
   
52.143   Financial records
   
52.144   Billing
Administration and Enforcement
   
52.155   Right to enter premises
   
52.156   Right to obtain information regarding discharge
   
52.157   Access to easements
   
52.158   Safety rules to be observed
   
52.159   Suspension of permit or service due to harmful contributions
   
52.160   Notice of violation
   
52.161   Continued violation
   
52.162   Show cause hearing
   
52.163   Revocation of permit
   
52.164   Written notice
   
52.165   Termination of authority to discharge sewage
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 PURPOSE; OBJECTIVES; POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the city
and enables the city to comply with all applicable state and federal laws
required by the Clean Water Act of 1977 and the general pretreatment
regulations (40 C.F.R. part 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated,
into receiving waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the
system;
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludges from the system; and
      (4)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the municipal
wastewater system.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the municipal wastewater system through the issuance of permits
to certain nondomestic users and through enforcement of general requirements
for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities, requires
user reporting, and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable
distribution of costs resulting from the program established in this chapter.
   (D)   This chapter shall apply to the city and its Utility Commission and to
persons outside the city who are, by contract or agreement, users of the
publicly owned treatment works (POTW). Except as otherwise provided herein, the
Manager of the Municipal Utility Commission shall administer, implement, and
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 52.001) (Ord. passed 1- -1987)
§ 52.002 TITLES.
   Sections
52.001 through
52.008,
52.020 through
52.026,
52.040,
52.041,
52.055 through
52.061,
52.075 through
52.085,
52.100 through
52.112 shall henceforth be referred to as the Sewer Use Ordinance, and §§
52.125,
52.126,
52.140 through
52.144,
52.155 through
52.165, and
52.999 shall henceforth be referred to as the User Charge Ordinance.
(1995 Code, § 52.0011) (Res. passed 4-11-1994)
§ 52.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Secretary of the State Natural Resources and
Environmental Protection Cabinet or an authorized representative thereof.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE COMMISSION OR THE CITY. Any person
designated by the Commission or city to act on its behalf.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF A USER. An authorized representative of a user
may be:
      (1)   A principal executive officer of at least the level of vice
president, if the industrial user is a corporation;
      (2)   A general partner or proprietor if the user is a partnership or
proprietorship, respectively; or
      (3)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated above
if such representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the indirect discharge originates.
   AVAILABLE. As AVAILABLE applies to a public sewer, it means a public sewer
located at the property line or point at which connection may be made with the
sanitary sewage collection facilities.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure,
five days at 20°C expressed in terms of weight and concentration in milligrams
per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER or HOUSE CONNECTION. The extension from the building drain to
the public sewer or other place of disposal.
   BUILDING SEWER PERMIT. As set forth in §§
52.055 through
52.061.
   CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or
Pretreatment Standard. Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits
promulgated by the EPA in accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33
U.S.C. § 1347) which applies to a specific category of industrial users.
   CITY. The City of Pineville; its City Council or Commission; or the
Municipal Utility Commission or any other board or entity having responsibility
for the POTW.
   COMBINED SEWER. Any conduit carrying both sanitary sewage and stormwater or
surface water.
   COMMISSION. The Municipal Utility Commission (see §§
35.035 through
35.050).
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids and fecal
coliform bacteria, as well as any additional pollutants identified in the
POTW’s NPDES/KPDES permit, where the POTW is designed to treat such pollutants
and, in fact, does treat such pollutants to the degree required by the POTW’s
NPDES/KPDES permit.
   COMPOSITE WASTEWATER SAMPLE. A combination of individual samples of water or
wastewater taken at selected intervals, generally hourly for some specified
period, to minimize the effect of variability on the individual sample.
Individual samples may have equal volume or may be proportioned to the flow at
the time of the sampling.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. Refers to the approval authority or the Municipal Utility
Commission if the city has an approved pretreatment program under the
provisions of 40 C.F.R. § 403.11.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Health Department for Bell County.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGES. Charges levied on users of the sewage treatment system
to support the annual debt service obligations of the system.
   DIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly
to the waters of the state.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a designation for the
Administrator or other duly authorized official of EPA.
   EQUIPMENT. All movable, nonfixed items necessary to the wastewater treatment
process.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGES. The charges levied on users of the sewage
treatment system whose contribution contains biochemical oxygen demand  (BOD),
suspended solids (SS), or ammonia nitrogen (NH 3 -N) in concentrations which
exceed limits specified herein for such pollutants and who are permitted to
make   such contributions to the system by decision of the Superintendent of
the sewer system.
   FEDERAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Federal regulations for pretreatment of
industrial wastewater under 40 C.F.R. parts 307, 402, 403, 405, and other
applicable regulations, as amended.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of FLOATABLE OIL if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the proper
operation of the collection system.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and serving of foods.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one time basis
with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of
time.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks, and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. All pollutants other than “compatible pollutants” as
defined above.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction of nondomestic
pollutants from any source regulated under § 307(b) or (c) of the Act (33
U.S.C. § 1317) into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into the
system).
   INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge which does not constitute a
discharge of pollutants under regulations issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act
(33 U.S.C. § 1342).
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial or commercial processes as
distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   INTERCEPTOR. A device designed and installed so as to separate and retain
deleterious, hazardous, or undesirable matter from normal wastes while
permitting normal sewage or liquid wastes to discharge into the sewer system or
drainage system by gravity. INTERCEPTOR as defined in this section is commonly
referred to as a grease, oil, or sand trap.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the POTW treatment processes
or operations, or anything which contributes to a violation of any requirement
of the Commission’s NPDES/KPDES permit. The term includes prevention of sewage
sludge use or disposal by the POTW in accordance with § 405 of the Act (33
U.S.C. § 1345) or any criteria, guidelines or regulations developed pursuant to
the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances
Control Act, or more stringent state criteria, including those contained in any
state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Title IV of SWDA applicable
to the method of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
   MANAGER. The person employed by the Municipal Utility Commission as Manager
of the entire municipal water or sewer system, or his or her authorized deputy,
agent, or representative.
   MAXIMUM DAILY CONCENTRATION. The maximum concentration of a pollutant based
on the analytical results obtained from a 24-hour composite sample.
   MULTI-UNIT SEWER CUSTOMER. A location served where there are two or more
residential units or apartments, two or more businesses in the same building or
complex, or where there is any combination of business and residence in the
same building or complex.
   NATIONAL OR STATE POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM or NPDES/KPDES
PERMIT. A permit issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1332), or a
permit issued by the state under this authority and referred to as KPDES.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers, into a watercourse,
pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surfacewater or groundwater.
   NEW SOURCE. Any source, the construction of which is commenced after the
publication of proposed regulations prescribing a § 307(c) of the Act (33
U.S.C. § 1317) categorical pretreatment standard which will be applicable to
such source, if such standard is thereafter promulgated within 120 days of
proposal in the Federal Register. Where the standard is promulgated later than
120 days after proposal, NEW SOURCE means any source, the construction of which
is commenced after the date of promulgation of the standard.
   NH3-N (denoting ammonia nitrogen). The quantity of ammonia in the
wastewater, sewage, or other liquids, as measured by standard laboratory test,
and expressed in terms of equivalent nitrogen, in units of milligrams per
liter.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater that has a BOD concentration of not
more than 250 mg/l; an SS concentration of not more than 300 mg/l; and an NH3-
N of not more than 25 mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Those functions that result in expenditures
during the useful life of the treatment works for materials, labor, utilities,
and other items which are necessary for management and operation of the system
according to its design and construction. The term includes REPLACEMENT.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt and industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste discharged into
water.
   POLLUTION. The human-made or human-induced alteration of the chemical,
physical, biological, and radiological integrity of water.
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW designed to provide treatment
to wastewater.
   PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of
discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW. The reduction
or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical, or biological processes,
or process changes by other means, except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6
(d).
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard imposed on a
significant user.
   PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD. Any regulation developed under the authority
of 307(b) of the Act and 40 C.F.R. § 403.(5).
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS or POTW. A treatment works as defined by §
212 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1292) which is owned in this instance by the city.
PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS includes any sewers that convey wastewater to
the POTW treatment plant, but does not include pipes, sewers, or other
conveyances not connected to a facility providing treatment. POTW shall also
include any sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside the
city who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users of the city’s POTW.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility. In general, PUBLIC SEWER shall include the main sewer in the street
and the service branch to the curb or property line, or a main sewer on private
property and the service branch to the extent of ownership by public authority.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
   SANITARY OR DOMESTIC WASTES. The liquid- and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, and institutions, as distinct from industrial
waste.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid- and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions.
   SEWAGE or WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. Domestic or sanitary
waste shall mean the liquid- or water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, and institutions, as distinct from industrial sewage.
   SEWAGE SYSTEM OR WORKS. All facilities for collecting, transporting,
pumping, treating, and disposing of sewage and sludge, namely the sewerage
system and the POTW.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGES. Charges levied on all users who discharge, cause, or
permit the discharge of sewage into the public wastewater treatment system.
   SIGNIFICANT USER. Any user of the wastewater disposal system who:
      (1)   Has a discharge flow of 25,000 gallons or more per average work
day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow in the city’s wastewater
treatment system;
      (3)   Has in his or her wastes toxic pollutants as defined pursuant to §
307 of the Act or state statutes and rules; or
      (4)   Is found by the city, State Control Agency, or the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to have significant impact, either singly
or in combination with other contributing users, on the wastewater treatment
system, the quality of sludge, the system’s effluent quality, or air emissions
generated by the system.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
or flow rate during normal operation or adversely affects the POTW.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION or SIC. A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the
President, U.S. Bureau of the Budget, 1972.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation and
as set forth in the Congressional Record 40 C.F.R. part 136.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A drain or sewer for conveying water,
groundwater, surface water, or unpolluted water from any source.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SURCHARGE. A charge for services in addition to the basic sewer service and
debt service charges.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS or TSS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the
surface of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater, or other liquids, and
that is removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for
the Examination of Water and Wastewater, latest revision, and referred to as
nonfilterable residue.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic
in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency under the provisions of CWA § 307(a) or other Acts.
   TREATMENT WORKS. Any devices and system for the storage, treatment,
recycling, and reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage, or liquid
industrial wastes. These include intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, sewage
collection systems, pumping, power, and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions, and alterations
thereof, elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works, including
site acquisition of the land that will be an integral part of the treatment
process or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such
treatment (including land for composting sludge, temporary storage of such
compost, and land used for the storage of treated wastewater in land treatment
systems before land application); or any other method or system for preventing,
abating, reducing, storing, treating, separating, or disposing of municipal
waste or industrial waste, including waste in combined storm water and sanitary
sewer systems.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the treatment
works effluent criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of
receiving water quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to
the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which a treatment works will be
operated.
   USER. Any person who contributes, causes, or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the POTW.
   USER CHARGE. The charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment system
to onset the cost of operations and maintenance of the system, including normal
replacement costs.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community.
   WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMIT. As set forth in §
52.076.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
   WASTEWATER FLOWMETER. A device which measures the volume of wastewater
flows.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT, WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT, WATER
POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT, or SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. (See also TREATMENT WORKS.)
   WATER METER. A water volume measuring and recording device.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems, and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or
underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained
within, flow through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(1995 Code, § 52.002) (Ord. passed 1- -1987; Ord. passed 4-6-1993)
§ 52.004 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:
   ADMI      American Dye Manufacturers Institute
   BOD      Biochemical Oxygen Demand
   C.F.R      Code of Federal Regulations
   CWA      Clean Water Act of 1979, latest revision
   EPA      Environmental Protection Agency
   KPDES   Kentucky Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
   l      Liter
   mg      Milligrams
   mg/l      Milligrams Per Liter
   NPDES   National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
   POTW      Publicly Owned Treatment Works
   SIC      Standard Industrial Classification
   SWDA      Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.
   TSS      Total Suspended Solids
   USC      United States Code
(1995 Code, § 53.003) (Ord. passed 1- -1987)
§ 52.005 SEWER DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The City of Pineville, Kentucky, is hereby divided into sewer
districts as follows:
      (1)   The voting precinct of 1-A shall be Sewer District Number One,
including Pine Mountain State Park, Clear Creek Baptist Bible College, and Log
Mountain.
      (2)   The voting precinct of 2-B shall be Sewer District Number Two.
      (3)   The voting precinct of 3-C shall be Sewer District Number Three.
      (4)   The voting precinct of 4-D shall be Sewer District Number Four.
   (B)   There shall be installed “T” connections at a distance of 50 feet
apart so as to take care of the sewerage of the abutting property, and there
shall also be installed a four-inch line extending from said eight-inch sewer
line to the property line abutting property owner on each side of the said
eight-inch sewer line.
   (C)   The eight-inch sewer line and the connections thereto shall be
constructed at the expense of the abutting property owners; after the
completion of the sewer line and connections thereto, the City Engineer shall
apportion to each abutting property owner on Cypress Street and Hazel Avenue
the exact cost of constructing the sewer line and connections thereto to the
abutting property owners to same.
(1995 Code, § 52.004) (Ord. passed 5-1-1950; Res. passed 4-11-1994)
§ 52.006 DAMAGING, DESTROYING WATERWORKS FACILITIES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall intentionally or wantonly break, damage, destroy, uncover,
deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which is part
of the POTW. Any persons violating this provision shall be subject to immediate
arrest under charge of criminal mischief.
(1995 Code, § 52.005) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
Statutory reference:
   Criminal mischief, see KRS 512.020 through 512.040
§ 52.007 LIABILITY OF VIOLATOR FOR DAMAGES.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the Municipal Utility Commission or city for any expense, loss, or
damage occasioned the Commission or city by reason of such violation.
(1995 Code, § 52.006) (Ord. passed 1- -1987)
§ 52.008 FALSIFICATION OF DOCUMENTS PROHIBITED.
   Any person who knowingly makes any false statements, representation, or
certification of any application, record, report, plan, or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter, or wastewater
contribution permit, or who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders
inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under this chapter, shall
be guilty of an offense against this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 52.007) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 52.020 SUITABLE TOILET FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   The owners of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city and
abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now located or
may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city, are hereby
required at the owners’ expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein,
and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of
official notice to do so, provided that this public sewer is within 100 feet
(30.5 meters) of the property line.
(1995 Code, § 52.015) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.021 PRIVIES AND THE LIKE TO BE CONNECTED TO CITY SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
wastewater where public sanitary sewer service is available, as defined in §
52.020, except as provided for in §§
52.040 and
52.041.
   (B)   The existence within the city, wherever the services of the city
sanitary sewage collection, treatment, and disposal facilities are available,
or may hereafter be made available, as the term “available” is defined in §
52.003, of septic tanks, seepage laterals, privies, earthpits, cesspools,
sanitary waste vaults, sewage drainage fields, private sewage disposal systems,
or any other such facilities or works for the disposition of sanitary sewage
wastes other than the facilities of the city, is hereby declared to be a menace
to the public health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens and
inhabitants of the city, and is hereby determined and declared to constitute a
public nuisance.
   (C)   The existence of such facilities as toilets, sinks, wash basins,
showerbaths, bathtubs, any commercial or industrial machinery, or devices
producing a liquid waste product, and the like, in or upon any improved
property or premises in the city where the facilities of the city’s sewage
collection, treatment, and disposal system are available, or may hereafter be
made available, is similarly declared to be a menace to the public health and
general welfare of the city and its inhabitants, unless such facilities are
connected to the city sewage collection, treatment, and disposal system.
   (D)   The Manager may prescribe the type and manner of connection to these
facilities, and may require that each connection be supervised and inspected by
an authorized and qualified agent of the Municipal Utility Commission.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to
the public sewer system in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks,
cesspools, and similar private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned
of sludge and filled with suitable material or salvaged and removed.
(1995 Code, § 52.016) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.022 SANITARY SEWER SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   In areas outside the corporate limits of the city, in which sewer
service is or may be made available, the conditions for use of each service and
facilities shall be determined by the Municipal Utility Commission. If sewer
service is made available, no person shall be permitted to use the public water
supply facilities of the municipal sewage system without connecting with the
sewer facilities, and the Commission shall discontinue water service to any
premises which do not connect with the sewer facilities.
   (B)   Any person who agrees to receive sanitary sewer service outside of the
city limits agrees by acceptance of such service to abide by this chapter in
its entirety, and therefore is subject to enforcement and penalties for
violations of this chapter as if that person received said sewer service inside
the city limits.
(1995 Code, § 52.017) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.023 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE TO STORM SEWERS OR NATURAL OUTLETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city or into any sewer which
connects to the storm sewer system of the city, any objectionable wastewater or
industrial wastes.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any wastewater or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter. No provision of this
chapter shall be construed to relieve the owner of a discharge to any natural
outlet of the responsibility for complying with applicable state and federal
regulations governing such discharge.
(1995 Code, § 52.018) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.024 DISCHARGE OF WASTEWATER TO BE IN COMPLIANCE WITH LOCAL, STATE, AND
FEDERAL LAWS.
   The discharge of any wastewater into the public sewer system by any person
is unlawful except in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and any
more stringent state or federal standards promulgated pursuant to the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, the Clean Water Act of 1977,
and subsequent amendments.
(1995 Code, § 52.019) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.025 DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED WATERS INTO SEWER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged through any leak,
defect, or connection any unpolluted waters such as stormwater, groundwater,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, or cooling water to any sanitary sewer,
building sewer, building drain, or building plumbing. The Manager or his or her
representative shall have the right, at any time, to inspect the inside or
outside of buildings or smoke test for connections, leaks, or defects to
building sewers and require disconnection or repair of any pipes carrying such
water to the building sewer. Such waters shall not be removed through the dual
use of a sanitary drain sump or a sump pump to building sanitary sewer.
Discharge of such waters by a manual switch-over from sanitary sewer to storm
drainage will not be an acceptable method of separation. In case both storm and
sanitary sewage is present, separate drainage or pumping systems shall be
included.
   (B)   Stormwater, groundwater, and all other unpolluted drainage may be
discharged to such sewers as are used as storm sewers or combined sewers
approved by the Municipal Utility Commission. Unpolluted cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the Municipal
Utility Commission, to a storm sewer or natural outlet. Under no circumstances
shall sanitary sewage be discharged to a storm sewer.
   (C)   The owners of any building sewers having such connections, leaks, or
defects shall bear all costs incidental to removal of such sources.
(1995 Code, § 52.020) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.026 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or indirectly,
any pollutant or wastewater which will interfere with the operation or
performance of the POTW. These general prohibitions apply to all such sewers of
a POTW whether or not the user is subject to national categorical pretreatment
standards or any other national, state, or local pretreatment standards or
requirements. A user shall not contribute the following substances to any POTW:
   (A)   Any liquids, solids, or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
POTW or to the operation of the POTW. At no time shall two successive readings
on an explosion hazard meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or at
any point in the system), be more than 5% nor any single reading over 10% of
the lower explosive limit (LEL) of the meter. Prohibited materials include, but
are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene,
ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates,
bromates, carbides, hydrides, and any other substances which the city, the
state, or the EPA has notified the user is a fire hazard or a hazard to the
system;
   (B)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or interfere
with any wastewater treatment process, to constitute a hazard to humans or
animals, to create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the POTW, or to
exceed the limitation set forth in a categorical pretreatment standard. A toxic
pollutant shall include, but not be limited to, any pollutant identified
pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0 or higher than 9.0 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the POTW;
   (D)   Any slug load or pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants
(BOD and the like), released at a flow or concentration that will cause
interference;
   (E)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to,
ashes, bones, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings,
entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like, either whole or
ground; or spent lime, stone or marble dust, grass clippings, spent grains,
spent hops, waste paper, gas, asphalt residues, unground garbage, residues from
refining or processing of fuel or lubricating oil, or glass grinding or
polishing wastes;
   (F)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removable in the POTW, but
in no case wastewater with a color at the introduction into the POTW that
exceeds 300 ADMI units;
   (G)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the POTW that will
result in a treatment plant influent temperature which exceeds 104°F (40°C);
   (H)   Any wastewater at the introduction to the POTW with a temperature
which exceeds 150°F (65°C);
   (I)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are sufficient to create a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance or repair;
   (J)   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other product
of the POTW such as residues, sludges, or scum to be unsuitable for reclamation
and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process where the POTW is
pursuing a reuse and reclamation program. In no case shall a substance
discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance with sludge use or
disposal criteria, guidelines, or regulations developed under § 405 of the Act;
any criteria, guidelines, or regulations affecting sludge use or disposal
developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the
Toxic Substances Control Act, or state criteria applicable to the sludge
management method being used;
   (K)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES/KPDES or
sludge disposal system permit or the receiving water quality standards;
   (L)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such
half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the Manager in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
   (M)   Any wastewater containing strong acids, iron pickling wastes, or
concentrated plating solutions; and
   (N)   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a public
nuisance.
(1995 Code, § 52.021) (Ord. passed 1- -1987)
PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
§ 52.040 CONNECTION OF BUILDING SEWER WHEN PUBLIC SANITARY SYSTEM NOT
AVAILABLE; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Connection of building sewer when public sanitary system not
available.
      (1)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions
of §§
52.020 through
52.026, the building sewer shall be connected, until the public sewer system is
available, to a private wastewater disposal system complying with the
provisions of applicable local and state regulations.
      (2)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the Planning
Utility Commission. When it becomes necessary, the sludge may be disposed of
only as approved by the Commission, by operators licensed by the Commission for
such purposes.
      (3)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by applicable
local or state regulations.
   (B)   Exception. Industries with current NPDES/KPDES permits may discharge
at permitted discharge points provided they are in compliance with the
conditions of said permit.
(1995 Code, § 52.025) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.041 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The type, capacity, location, and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all local or state regulations. Before commencement of
construction of a private sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain
a written permit issued by the County Health Department after approval of the
system by the local and state authorities, if required. The application for
such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the County Health Department,
which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications, and other
information as are deemed necessary by the County Health Department.
   (B)   A permit for private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the local and state
authorities, if required. They shall be allowed to inspect the work at any
stage of construction, and in any event the applicant for the permit shall
notify the Manager when the work is ready for final inspection and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 48 hours
of the receipt of notice by the Manager, Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays
excepted.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued for any private wastewater disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than the minimum lot area required for such facilities by the County
Health Department or local zoning requirements.
   (D)   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
(1995 Code, § 52.026) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
BUILDING SEWERS; CONNECTIONS AND MAINTENANCE
§ 52.055 BUILDING SEWER PERMITS REQUIRED.
   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits required, one for
residential and one for service to commercial and industrial establishments. In
either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application on a special
form furnished by the Municipal Utility Commission. Applicants for service to
commercial and industrial establishments shall be required to furnish
information about all waste producing activities, wastewater characteristics
and constituents. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the Manager. Details regarding commercial and industrial permits include, but
are not limited to, those required by this chapter. Permit and inspection fees
shall be paid to the Commission at the time the application is filed.
(1995 Code, § 52.035) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.056 USERS TO NOTIFY CITY OF CHANGES IN DISCHARGES.
   Users shall notify the Municipal Utility Commission of any proposed new
introduction of wastewater constituents or any proposed substantial change in
the volume or character of the wastewater constituents being introduced into
the POTW.
(1995 Code, § 52.036) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.057 DISTURBANCE TO PUBLIC SEWER WITHOUT WRITTEN PERMISSION PROHIBITED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, plug, or make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permission from the Manager.
(1995 Code, § 52.037) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.058 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, basement wall
seepage or floor seepage, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or other
sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain
which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
Any such connections which already exist on the effective date of this chapter
shall be completely and permanently disconnected within 60 days of the
effective date of this chapter. The owners of any building sewers having such
connections, leaks, or defects shall bear all costs incidental to removal of
such sources; and, in the case of noncompliance with the provisions of this
chapter, shall be responsible for any flooding or damage resulting from such
noncompliance. Pipes, sumps, and pumps for such sources of ground and surface
water shall be separate from wastewater facilities. Removal of such sources of
water without presence of separate facilities shall be evidence of drainage to
public sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Floor, basement, or crawl space drains which are lower than ground
surfaces surrounding the building shall not be connected to the building
sanitary sewer. No sanitary inlet which is lower than six inches above the top
of the lowest of the two adjacent public sanitary sewer manholes shall be
connected by direct drainage to the building sanitary sewer.
(1995 Code, § 52.038) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.059 DESIGN AND INSTALLATION.
   (A)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard, or driveway, the sewer
from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one building sewer, but the Municipal Utility Commission does not
and will not assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or
resulting from any such single connection aforementioned.
   (B)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Manager, to meet all
requirements of this chapter. Permit and inspection fees and tap-on fees for
new buildings using existing building sewers shall be the same as for new
building sewers. If additional sewer consumers or additional facilities are
added to the old building sewers, additional sewer tap fees shall be charged
accordingly even though no new sewer tap-on is actually made into the POTW.
   (C)   Extension of customer service lines from any point on the customer’s
side of the tap for delivery of waste from any location other than that of the
customer in whose name the tap is registered shall not be permitted unless
otherwise approved, in writing, by the Manager.
   (D)   The building sewer shall be cast iron soil pipe, ASTM A-74, latest
revision, PVC (polyvinyl-chloride) sewer pipe, ASTM D-3034, latest revision,
unglazed clay sewer pipe, ASTM C-261, latest revision, vitrified clay sewer
pipe, ASTM C-7000, latest revision, or ductile iron pipe, AWWA Specification C-
151 cement lined, and shall meet requirements of the state plumbing code.
Joints shall be as set out hereinafter. Any part of the building sewer that is
located within five feet of a water service pipe shall be constructed with cast
iron soil pipe or ductile iron pipe, unless the building sewer is at least one
foot deeper in the ground than the water service line. In the latter case, PVC
pipe may be used. Cast iron soil pipe or ductile iron pipe may be required by
the Manager where the building sewer is exposed to damage or stoppage by tree
roots. Cast iron soil pipe or ductile iron pipe shall be used in filled or
unstable ground, in areas where the cover over the building sewer is less than
three feet, or in areas where the sewer is subject to vehicular or other
external loads.
   (E)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the local and state building and plumbing codes and other applicable rules and
regulations of the Commission. In general, the building sewer shall not be less
than four inches in diameter. The slope of the building sewer shall in no event
be less than one-eighth inch per foot.
   (F)   In the absence of local code provisions or in amplification thereof,
the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
ASTM and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (G)   No building sewer shall be laid parallel to within three feet of any
bearing wall which might thereby be weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to
afford 24 inches of cover over pipe except where exposed to vehicular traffic.
Portions of the building sewer subject to vehicular traffic shall have a
minimum cover of 36 inches, or be encased in a six-inch envelope of concrete.
The building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade and in straight alignment
insofar as possible.
   (H)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify
the Commission for any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer. Fees for connection shall
be as established by the Commission.
   (I)   The owner shall ensure that all excavations for building sewer
installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to
protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public
property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner
satisfactory to the Commission.
   (J)   In all buildings in which any sanitary facility drain is too low to
permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain
shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building sewer.
Drain pipe and sump for collection of such sanitary drainage shall be above
basement floor or in separately watertight or drained sump or channel.
   (K)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the Manager, and all
such trenches shall be kept open until the pipe has been inspected, tested, and
approved by the Manager. Except where bends are supplied, trenches shall be
straight in direction and grade to accommodate prefabricated joints. Trenches
shall be at least 20 inches wide opposite center line of the pipe. Building
sanitary sewers laid in undisturbed ground must be laid on at least six inches
of pea gravel, sand, or other approved grillage to support the pipe. The trench
shall be filled with the same approved grillage on each side of the pipe and
six inches over same. Building sewers laid in mud or filled ground shall be
embedded to lower quadrant with at least a four-inch concrete pad as below the
invert or other support that may be considered necessary. Backfill shall be
carefully tamped in and around pipe in not over four-inch layers to top of pipe
for proper support. Backfill shall be solidly tamped above the pipe and hand-
placed up to 18 inches above the pipe. No backfill shall be placed over the
pipe until the pipe-laying has been inspected by the Manager or his or her duly
authorized agent.
   (L)   All joints and connections shall be made gastight and watertight.
Joints for cast iron soil pipe and fittings with hubs and plain end spigots
shall be made with caulked lead and oakum as specified in Chapter 4, ASA A40.8,
or by using positive double-seal elastomeric compression-type gaskets
conforming to ASTM C-564. Service pipe shall be joined with service gaskets and
extra heavy pipe with extra heavy gaskets. All joints between vitrified clay
pipe and other approved pipe shall be made with an approved prefabricated
rubber or plastic material conforming to ASTM Specification C-425, latest
revision, and installed clean and uninjured by handling or weather according to
manufacturers’ direction, completely homed into place. The vitrified clay sewer
pipe shall be jointed with compressed watertight rubber rings meeting ASTM
Specification D-1869, latest revision, and installed clean, according to
manufacturers’ directions. The ductile iron pipe shall be joined together with
watertight rubber gaskets in accordance with the manufacturers’ directions. The
PVC pipe joints shall conform to ASTM D-3212, latest revision, and elastomeric
gaskets to ASTM F477.
   (M)   The building sewer shall be connected into the public sewer at the
easement or property line. Where no properly located service branch is
available, an authorized agent of the Manager shall cut a neat hole into the
main line of the public sewer and a suitable wye or tee saddle installed to
receive the building sewer. The invert of the building sewer at such point of
connection with a saddle shall be in the upper quadrant of the main line of the
public sewer. A neat workmanlike connection not extending past the inner
surface of the public sewer shall be made and the saddle made secure and
watertight by encasement in epoxy cement specially prepared for this purpose. A
wye and H bend fitting shall be installed at the property line between the
public sewer and the building sewer. This fitting shall serve the purpose of a
cleanout and for applying the smoke test during inspection of the line. After
testing, a cast iron or ductile iron riser will be inserted in this fitting and
brought flush with the ground surface. A stopper or plug, outfitted with a type
joint applicable to the pipe used, shall seal this riser against the intrusion
of ground or surface water.
   (N)   All building sanitary sewer lines will be installed so as to meet or
exceed the most current revision of the State Plumbing Code.
   (O)   All persons working on city sewers with a cleaning rod must use an
approved type rod in cleaning sewer connections to city sewers.
(1995 Code, § 52.039) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.060 INSPECTION AND TESTING OF CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Manager
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of the
Manager or his or her representative. All connections shall be made gastight
and watertight and verified by proper testing. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Manager before
installation.
   (B)   All building sewers shall be smoke tested through the wye branch at
the public sewer connection, or low pressure air tested per ASTM C-828-08 or
latest revision, with the public sewer tightly plugged off, after connections
at both ends are made and after all pipe is properly bedded and backfilled at
least to top of pipe and if backfill is completed, within two weeks after
completion of backfill. At the time of the test any openings into the building
drain inside the building shall be water trapped or plugged. Any leakage of
smoke from building sewer or building drain and plumbing shall be located at
test and repaired to stand repetition of smoke test without leakage. When smoke
testing is completed, the temporary flow line plug shall be removed and a
permanent watertight plug shall be placed in branch of test wye-branch and
carefully backfilled by hand and tamped to at least six inches above the top of
the branch. The Manager shall determine the method of testing to be performed.
(1995 Code, § 52.040) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.061 MAINTENANCE OF CONNECTION.
   The owner of any building or private sewer connected to the city’s sewer
system shall be responsible for its maintenance. In the event of a maintenance
need, the owner shall first make all reasonable attempts, including the
engagement of a plumber, to have the necessary work performed at his or her
expense. Only then may the Municipal Utility Commission assist as it is able
and at a fee established by it. In the case of a private sewer not having an
outside cleanout, and for which the Commission agrees to provide a maintenance
service, the Commission shall install a cleanout at the owner’s expense.
(1995 Code, § 52.041) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
POLLUTANT DISCHARGE LIMITS
§ 52.075 GENERAL CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The substances, materials, waters, or waste described in this
subchapter shall be limited in discharges to municipal systems to
concentrations or quantities which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater
treatment process, or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream, or will not otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property,
or constitute a nuisance. The Manager may set additional limitations or
limitations more stringent than those established in the regulations below if
in his or her opinion such more severe limitations are necessary to meet the
above objectives.
   (B)   In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability, the Manager
shall give consideration to such factors as the quantity of subject waste in
relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of
the sewers, the wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the
wastewater treatment plant, and other pertinent factors.
   (C)   The limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of
waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer shall not be violated
without written approval of the Manager.
(1995 Code, § 52.055) (Ord. passed 1- -1987)
§ 52.076 RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
   The following discharges are restricted as described in §
52.075 above:
   (A)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of petroleum
oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils, or products of mineral oil origin;
   (B)   Wastewater from industrial plants or commercial businesses containing
floatable oils, fat, or grease, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 50
milligrams per liter or containing substances which may solidify or become
viscous at temperatures from 32° to 150°F or 0° to 65°C;
   (C)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage grinders may
be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, motels, institutions, restaurants,
hospitals, catering establishments, or similar places where garbage originates
from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the
premises or when served by caterers. The installation and operation of any
garbage grinder equipped with a three-fourths HP motor or greater shall be
subject to review and approval;
   (D)   Any waters or wastes containing odor-producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the Manager;
   (E)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the Manager in compliance with applicable
state or federal regulations;
   (F)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or wastes
in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended solids
which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition deleterious
to structures and treatment processes;
   (G)   Any waters or wastes containing cadmium, chromium, copper, cyanide,
iron, lead, nickel, zinc, or similar objectionable or toxic substances to such
a degree that they inhibit or damage the wastewater treatment processes, or
tend to concentrate in the wastewater sludge to such a level that prevents the
use of acceptable sludge disposal methods, or pass through the treatment
process unremoved and at such concentration that causes a violation of effluent
limitations or water quality standards which are or may be established by state
and federal agencies having jurisdiction;
   (H)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; and
   (I)   Any water or waste which has characteristics based on a 24-hour
composite sample, or a shorter period composite sample if more representative,
which exceed the following normal maximum domestic wastewater parameter
concentrations:
 
Parameter Maximum Allowable Concentration Without Surcharge
BOD       250 mg/l
TSS       300mg/l
NH 3 -N   25 mg/l
*American Dye Manufacturers Institute (ADMI).
 
(1995 Code, § 52.056) (Ord. passed 1- -1987; Res. passed 4-11-1994) Penalty,
see §
52.999
§ 52.077 DILUTION OF WASTEWATER DISCHARGE.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the federal
categorical pretreatment standards, or in any other pollutant specific
limitation developed by the city or state.
(1995 Code, § 52.057) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.078 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil, sand interceptors, and oil/water separators shall be
provided when, in the opinion of the Manager, they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, or
any flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. Such facilities must be provided, as required by the Manager, for any
new sewer system connections made after the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
Manager and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection.
   (C)   The owner of these interceptors shall be responsible for the proper
maintenance of such facilities and the removal and disposal by appropriate
means of the captured material and shall maintain records of the dates and
means of disposal. The Municipal Utility Commission may require reporting of
such information for its review.
   (D)   Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not performed by
the owner’s personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste disposal
firms; interceptors shall also comply with applicable regulations of the County
Health Department.
(1995 Code, § 52.058) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.079 SPECIAL INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the requirements imposed on publicly owned wastewater
treatment works by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972
and later amendments, all pretreatment standards promulgated by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency for new and existing industrial dischargers to
public sewer systems are hereby made a part of this chapter. Any industrial
waste discharge which violates these EPA Pretreatment Standards shall be in
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Where pretreatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (C)   Any person who transports septic tank, seepage pit or cesspool
contents, liquid industrial waste, or other batch liquid waste and wishes to
discharge such waste to the public sewer system shall first obtain permission
for such discharge from the Manager. All persons receiving such permission
shall abide by all applicable provisions of this chapter, and any other special
provisions that may be established by the Manager as necessary for the proper
operation and maintenance of the sewerage system.
      (1)   It shall be illegal to discharge any batch liquid waste into any
manhole or other part of the public sewer system, or any building sewer or
other facility that discharges to the public sewer system, except at designated
points of discharge specified by the Manager for such purposes.
      (2)   Waste haulers who have been granted permission to discharge to the
public sewer system shall pay fees for such discharge in accordance with a fee
schedule established by the Manager and approved by the city.
      (3)   It shall be illegal to discharge any batch liquid waste into any
manhole or other part of the public sewer system, or any building sewer or
other facility that discharges to the public sewer system, except at designated
points of discharge by the Manager for such purposes.
      (4)   Any liquid waste hauler illegally discharging to the public sewer
system shall be subject to immediate revocation of discharge privileges, if
granted, and further subject to the penalties prescribed in §
52.999.
      (5)   Nothing in this chapter shall relieve waste haulers of the
responsibility for compliance with County Health Department, or state or
federal regulations.
   (D)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the Commission and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted for treatment provided that applicable local, state, and
federal pretreatment regulations or the Municipal Utility Commission’s NPDES/
KPDES permit are not violated.
(1995 Code, § 52.059) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.080 PROTECTION FROM ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Each significant user shall provide protection from accidental
discharge of prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this
chapter. Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials
shall be provided and maintained at the owner’s or user’s own cost and expense.
Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to provide this
protection shall be submitted to the Municipal Utility Commission for review,
and shall be approved by the Commission before construction of the facility.
   (B)   All existing users shall complete such a plan within 90 days after the
effective date of this chapter. Construction shall be completed within 180 days
of approval of plans and notification by the Manager.
   (C)   No user who commences contribution to the POTW after the effective
date of this chapter shall be permitted to introduce pollutants into the system
until accidental discharge procedures have been approved by the Commission.
Review and approval of such plans and operating procedures shall not relieve
the user from the responsibility to modify the user’s facility as necessary to
meet the requirements of this chapter. In the case of an accidental discharge,
it is the responsibility of the user to immediately telephone and notify the
POTW of the incident. The notification shall include location of discharge,
type of waste, concentration and volume, and corrective actions.
(1995 Code, § 52.060) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.081 WRITTEN NOTICE; NOTICE TO EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Written notice. Within five days following an accidental discharge,
the user shall submit to the Manager a detailed written report describing the
cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, fish kills, or any other damage to person or property; nor
shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, civil penalties, or
other liability which may be imposed by this chapter or other applicable law.
   (B)   Notice to employees. A notice shall be permanently posted on the
user’s bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees whom to call
in the event of a dangerous discharge. Employers shall ensure that all
employees who may cause or suffer such a dangerous discharge to occur are
advised of the emergency notification procedure.
(1995 Code, § 52.061) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.082 STATE REQUIREMENTS TO RULE.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 52.062) (Ord. passed 1- -1987)
§ 52.083 COMMISSION’S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The Municipal Utility Commission reserves the right at the recommendation of
the Manager to establish, by majority vote of its commissioners, more stringent
limitations or requirements on discharges to the POTW if deemed necessary to
comply with the objectives presented in this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 52.063) (Ord. passed 1- -1987)
§ 52.084 FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS TO RULE.
   Upon the promulgation of the federal categorical pretreatment standards for
a particular industrial subcategory, the federal standard, if more stringent
than limitations imposed under this chapter for sources in that subcategory,
shall immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this chapter. The
Manager shall notify all affected users of the applicable reporting
requirements under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12.
(1995 Code, § 52.064) (Ord. passed 1- -1987)
§ 52.085 MODIFICATION OF FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Where the Municipal Utility Commission’s wastewater treatment system
achieves consistent removal of pollutants limited by federal pretreatment
standards, the Commission may apply to the approval authority for modification
of specific limits in the federal pretreatment standards. Consistent removal
shall mean reduction in the amount of a pollutant or alteration of the nature
of the pollutant by the wastewater treatment system to a less toxic or harmless
state in the effluent which is achieved by the system in 95% of the samples
taken when measured according to the procedures set forth in § 403(7)(c)(2) of
(40 C.F.R. part 403) “General Pretreatment Regulations for Existing and New
Sources of Pollution” promulgated pursuant to the Act.
   (B)   The Commission may modify pollutant discharge limits in the Federal
Pretreatment Standards if the requirements contained in 40 C.F.R. part 403, §
403(7), are fulfilled and if prior approval from the Approval Authority is
obtained.
(1995 Code, § 52.065) (Ord. passed 1- -1987)
PRETREATMENT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION
§ 52.100 DISCHARGE WITHOUT PERMIT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to discharge without a city permit to any natural
outlet within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, or
to the POTW any wastewater except as authorized by the Manager in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   All significant users proposing to connect to or to contribute to the
POTW shall obtain a wastewater contribution permit before connecting to or
contributing to the POTW. All existing significant users connected to or
contributing to the POTW shall obtain a wastewater contribution permit within
90 days after the effective date of this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 52.075) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.101 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Users required to obtain a wastewater contribution permit shall
complete and file with the Municipal Utility Commission an application in the
form prescribed by the Commission, and accompanied by a permit fee. Existing
users shall apply for a wastewater contribution permit within 30 days after the
effective date of this chapter, and proposed new users shall apply at least 90
days prior to connecting to or contributing to the POTW.
   (B)   In support of the application, the user shall submit, in units and
terms appropriate for evaluation, the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and location if different from the address;
      (2)   SIC number according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, United States Bureau of the Budget, 1972, or its most current
applicable Manual, as amended;
      (3)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics as determined by an
analytical laboratory acceptable to the city; sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with procedures established by the EPA pursuant to §
304(g) of the Act and contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136, as amended;
      (4)   Time and duration of contribution;
      (5)   Average daily and 30-minute peak wastewater flow rates, including
daily, monthly, and seasonal variation if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and details
to show all sewers, sewer connections, and appurtenances by the size, location,
and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be discharged;
      (8)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by city, state, or federal pretreatment standards,
and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards are being
met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional pretreatment is
required for the user to meet applicable pretreatment standards;
      (9)   If additional pretreatment will be required to meet the
pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will provide
such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall not be
later than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment
standard. The following conditions shall apply to this schedule.
         (a)   The schedule must be acceptable to the Commission.
         (b)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards.
         (c)   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
Manager including, as a minimum, whether or not it compiled with the increment
of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which it expects to
comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay, and the steps
being taken by the users to return the construction to the schedule
established.
      (10)    Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and
rate of production;
      (11)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
      (12)   Number of employees, and hours of operation of plant and proposed
or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system;
      (13)   A copy of the industry’s written environmental control program,
comparable document, or policy; and
      (14)   Any other information as may be deemed by the Commission to be
necessary to evaluate the permit application.
(1995 Code, § 52.076) (Ord. passed 1- -1987)
§ 52.102 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Municipal Utility Commission shall evaluate the data furnished by the
user and may require additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of
the data furnished, the Commission may issue a wastewater contribution permit
subject to the terms and conditions provided in this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 52.077) (Ord. passed 1- -1987)
§ 52.103 PERMIT MODIFICATIONS.
   Within nine months of the promulgation of a national categorical
pretreatment standard, the wastewater contribution permit of users subject to
such standard shall be revised to require compliance with such standard within
the time frame prescribed by such standard. Where a user, subject to national
categorical pretreatment standards, has not previously submitted an application
for a wastewater contribution permit as required, the user shall apply for a
wastewater contribution permit within 90 days after the promulgation of the
applicable national categorical pretreatment standard. In addition, the user
with an existing wastewater contribution permit shall submit to the Manager
within 90 days after the promulgation of an applicable federal categorical
pretreatment standard the information required by this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 52.078) (Ord. passed 1- -1987)
§ 52.104 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Wastewater contribution permits shall be expressly subject to all
provisions of this chapter and all other applicable regulations, user charges,
and fees established by the city.
   (B)   Permits may contain the following:
      (1)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to a community sewer;
      (2)   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
      (3)   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
      (4)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
      (5)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations; frequency of sampling; number, types, and standards for tests; and
reporting schedule;
      (6)   Compliance schedules;
      (7)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports; (See §§
52.107 and
52.108.)
      (8)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining for a minimum of three
years of plant records relating to wastewater discharge as specified by the
Municipal Utility Commission, and affording the Commission access thereto;
      (9)   Requirements for notification of the Commission or any new
introduction of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume
or character of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the
wastewater treatment system;
      (10)   Requirements for notification of slug discharges;
      (11)   The permit may require the user to reimburse the Commission or
city for all expenses related to monitoring, sampling, and testing performed at
the direction of the Manager and deemed necessary by the Commission to verify
that the user is in compliance with said permit; and
      (12)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Commission to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 52.079) (Ord. passed 1- -1987)
§ 52.105 PERMIT DURATION; MODIFICATION.
   (A)   Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed
three years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year or may be
stated to expire on a specific date.
   (B)   The user shall apply for permit reissuance a minimum of 120 days prior
to the expiration of the user’s existing permit.
   (C)   The terms and conditions of the permit may be subject to modification
by the city during the term of the permit as limitations or requirements as
identified in §§
52.075 through
52.085 are modified or other just cause exists. The user shall be informed of
any proposed changes in their permit at least 30 days prior to the effective
date of change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a
reasonable time schedule for compliance.
(1995 Code, § 52.080) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.106 PERMIT TRANSFER.
   Wastewater contribution permits are issued to a specific user for a specific
operation. A wastewater contribution permit shall not be reassigned,
transferred, or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises, or a new or
changed operation without the approval of the Municipal Utility Commission. Any
succeeding owner or user shall also comply with the terms and conditions of the
existing permit.
(1995 Code, § 52.081) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.107 COMPLIANCE DATA REPORTING.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new user, following commencement of
the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject to pretreatment
standards and requirements shall submit to the Manager a report indicating the
nature and concentration of all pollutants in the discharge from the regulated
process which are limited by pretreatment standards and requirements and the
average and maximum daily flow for these process units in the user facility
which are limited by such pretreatment standards or requirements. The report
shall state whether the applicable pretreatment standards or requirements are
being met on a consistent basis and, if not, what additional pretreatment and
time schedule is necessary to bring the user into compliance with the
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements. This statement shall be
signed by an authorized representative of the user.
(1995 Code, § 52.082) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.108 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   Any user subject to a pretreatment standard, after the compliance date
of such pretreatment standard, or, in the case of a new user, after
commencement of the discharge into the POTW, shall submit to the Manager during
the months of June and December unless required more frequently in the
pretreatment standard or by the wastewater contribution permit, a report
indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in the effluent which are
limited by such pretreatment standards. In addition, this report shall include
a record of all daily flows which during the reporting period exceeded the
average daily flow. At the discretion of the Manager and in consideration of
such factors as local high or low flow rates, holidays, budget cycles, and the
like, the Manager may agree to alter the months during which the above reports
are to be submitted.
   (B)   The Manager may impose mass limitations on users where their
composition is appropriate. In such cases, the report required by division (A)
above shall indicate the mass of pollutants regulated by pretreatment standards
in the effluent of the user. These reports shall contain the results of
sampling and analysis of the discharge, including the flow and the nature and
concentration, or production and mass where requested by the Manager of
pollutants contained therein which are limited by the applicable pretreatment
standards. The frequency of monitoring shall be prescribed in the applicable
pretreatment standard. All analyses shall be performed by a laboratory
acceptable to the Municipal Utility Commission. Analytical procedures shall be
in accordance with procedures established by the U.S. EPA Administrator
pursuant to § 304 (g) of the Act and contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136 and
amendments thereto or with any other test procedures approved by the U.S. EPA
Administrator. Sampling shall be performed in accordance with the techniques
approved by the U.S. EPA Administrator.
   (C)   Where 40 C.F.R. part 136 does not include a sampling or analytical
technique for the pollutant in question, sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with the procedures set forth in the EPA publication,
“Sampling and Analysis Procedures for Screening of Industrial Effluents for
Priority Pollutants,” April, 1977, or its most current applicable publication,
and amendments thereto, or with any other sampling and analytical procedures
approved by the U.S. EPA Administrator.
(1995 Code, § 52.083) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.109 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The Municipal Utility Commission shall require significant users to
provide and operate at the user’s own expense, monitoring facilities to allow
inspection, sampling, and flow measurement of the building sewer or internal
drainage system. The monitoring facility should normally be situated on the
user’s premises, but the Commission may, when such a location would be
impractical or cause undue hardship on the user, allow the facility to be
constructed in a public right-of-way. The Manager shall review and approve the
location, plans, and specifications for such monitoring facilities and may
require them to be constructed to provide for the separate monitoring and
sampling of industrial waste and sanitary sewage flows.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility
to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The
facility, sampling, and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in
a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (C)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the Commission’s
requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Construction shall be completed within 90 days following
approval of the location, plans, and specifications.
(1995 Code, § 52.084) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.110 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   (A)   The city shall inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether
the purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being
compiled with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the city or their representative ready access at all
reasonable times to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection,
sampling, copying records, records examination, or in the performance of any of
their duties.
   (B)   The city, the approval authority, and the EPA shall have the right to
set up on the user’s property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling
inspection, compliance monitoring, and/or metering operations. Where a user has
security measures in force which would require proper identification and
clearance before entry into their premises, the user shall make necessary
arrangements for their security guards so that upon presentation of suitable
identification, personnel from the city, the approval authority, and the EPA
will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their
specific responsibilities.
(1995 Code, § 52.085) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.111 PRETREATMENT REGULATIONS; PUBLICATION OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to
comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all federal
categorical pretreatment standards within the time limitations as specified by
the federal pretreatment regulations. Any facilities required to pretreat
wastewater to a level acceptable to the Municipal Utility Commission shall be
provided, operated, and maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed plans
showing the pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted
to the Commission for review, and shall be acceptable to the Commission before
construction of the facility. The review of such plans and operating procedures
will in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the
facility as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the Commission under
the provisions of this chapter. Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment
facilities or method of operation shall be reported to and be acceptable to the
Commission prior to the user’s initiation of the changes.
   (B)   (1)   The Commission is required by federal regulation to keep the
public informed of all cases of significant violation. To accomplish this, the
Commission shall annually publish in a newspaper of local circulation a list of
the users which were not in compliance with any pretreatment requirements or
standards at least once during the 12 previous months. A significant violation
shall meet one or more of the following conditions:
         (a)   Results in the exercise of emergency authority;
         (b)   Remains uncorrected 45 days after notice of noncompliance is
given; or
         (c)   Involves failure to report accurately.
      (2)   The notification shall also summarize any enforcement actions taken
against the user during the same 12 months.
   (C)   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall
be made available to officials of the EPA or the approval authority upon
request.
(1995 Code, § 52.086) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.112 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data pertaining to a user obtained from reports,
questionnaires, permit applications, permits and monitoring programs, and from
inspections shall be available to the public or other governmental agency
without restriction unless the user specifically requests in writing and is
able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Municipal Utility Commission
that the release of such information would divulge information, processes, or
methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets of the user.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public but shall be made available upon written
request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the NPDES/
KPDES permit, sludge disposal system permit, or the pretreatment programs;
provided, however, that such portions of a report shall be available for use by
the state or any state agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings
involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and
characteristics shall not be recognized as confidential information.
   (C)   Information accepted by the Commission as confidential shall not be
transmitted to any governmental agency or to the general public by the
Commission until and unless a ten-day notification be given to the user.
(1995 Code, § 52.087) (Ord. passed 1- -1987)
FEES
§ 52.125 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter provides for the recovery of costs from users of the POTW
for the implementation and conduct of the program established herein. The
applicable charges or fee shall be set forth in the schedule of charges and
fees.
(1995 Code, § 52.105) (Ord. passed 1- -1987)
§ 52.126 ESTABLISHMENT OF CHARGES.
   (A)   The Municipal Utility Commission may adopt charges and fees which may
include:
      (1)   Fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating a
pretreatment program;
      (2)   Fees for monitoring, inspections, and surveillance procedures;
      (3)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and
construction;
      (4)   Fees for permit applications;
      (5)   Fees for filing appeals;
      (6)   Fees for consistent removal by the POTW of pollutants otherwise
subject to federal pretreatment standards; and
      (7)   Other fees as the Commission or city may deem necessary to carry
out the requirements contained herein.
   (B)   These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this chapter and
are separate from all other fees chargeable by the Commission or city.
(1995 Code, § 52.106) (Ord. passed 1- -1987)
CHARGES
§ 52.140 PURPOSE.
   It is determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to the
protection of the public health, safety, welfare, and convenience of the city
and constituents to collect charges from all users who contribute wastewater to
the municipal wastewater treatment works. The proceeds of such charges so
derived will be used for the purpose of operating, maintaining, and paying the
financial obligations of the public wastewater treatment works.
(1995 Code, § 52.110) (Ord. passed 4-6-1993)
§ 52.141 SEWER REVENUES FUND.
   (A)   The revenues collected, as a result of the sewer service charges
levied, shall be deposited in a separate nonlapsing fund known as the Sewer
Revenues Fund.
   (B)   The Sewer Revenues Fund shall be used only for the purpose of paying
operations, maintenance, and replacement costs of the wastewater treatment
system and to meet the debt service obligations of said system. Monies which
have been transferred from other sources to meet temporary shortages in the
Sewer Revenues Fund shall be returned to their respective accounts upon
appropriate adjustment of the sewer service charge rates for operation,
maintenance, replacement, and debt service obligations. The sewer service rates
shall be adjusted such that the transferred monies will be returned to their
respective accounts within six months of the fiscal year in which the monies
were borrowed.
   (C)   All revenues and expenses of the city’s wastewater treatment system
shall be maintained and accounted for separately from other city utilities such
as the water and/or gas system.
(1995 Code, § 52.111) (Ord. passed 4-6-1993)
§ 52.142 USER CHARGE; DEBT SERVICE CHARGE; AND SURCHARGE.
   (A)   Revised Pineville Utility Commission Sewer Rate Schedule. Sewer rates
for inside and outside city customers, including residential, governmental, and
industrial customers, shall be as follows:
Rates prior to January 1, 2021
First 1,000 gallons   $8.22
Next 9,000 gallons   $5.84
Next 20,000 gallons   $5.55
Over 30,000 gallons   $5.22
 
Effective January 1, 2021
First 1,000 gallons   $8.55
Next 9,000 gallons   $6.07
Next 20,000 gallons   $5.77
Over 30,000 gallons   $5.43
 
Effective January 1, 2022
First 1,000 gallons   $8.89
Next 9,000 gallons   $6.31
Next 20,000 gallons   $6.00
Over 30,000 gallons   $5.65
 
Effective January 1, 2023
First 1,000 gallons   $9.25
Next 9,000 gallons   $6.56
Next 20,000 gallons   $6.24
Over 30,000 gallons   $5.88
 
Effective January 1, 2024
First 1,000 gallons   $9.62
Next 9,000 gallons   $6.82
Next 20,000 gallons   $6.49
Over 30,000 gallons   $6.12
 
Effective January 1, 2025
First 1,000 gallons   $10.00
Next 9,000 gallons   $7.09
Next 20,000 gallons   $6.75
Over 30,000 gallons   $6.36
   (B)   Normal monthly billings for sewer service shall be determined on the
basis of each user’s metered water consumption and rates provided by division
(A) above. It is recognized in the assessment of such charges that not all
metered water consumption is returned to the sewer. For the purpose of
assessing service charges equitably, the average percentage of metered water
consumption returned to the sewer is deemed to be 90%. Where it can be
evidenced that the proportion of metered water consumption actually returned to
the treatment system by an individual customer is significantly different from
90%, service charges shall be determined on the basis of actual wastewater
discharge. In this event, the volume of wastewater discharge shall be
determined by using additional water meters to segregate wastewater flows and/
or any other procedure agreed upon by the user and Superintendent as a
reasonable method of determining flows. The city reserves the right to require
the installation of additional water meters and/or wastewater flow meters for
the purpose of determining actual monthly wastewater flows.
   (C)   In the event that the Superintendent shall permit a user to discharge
wastes to the sewage works having an average biochemical oxygen demand (BOD)
content in excess of 250 mg/l, and/or an average suspended solids (SS) content
in excess of 300mg/l, and/or and average ammonia nitrogen (NH 3 -N) content in
excess of 25 mg/l, the user shall pay a surcharge based upon the excess
strength of its wastes.
   (D)   The following surcharge rates shall apply to each user of the sewage
works that has received permission from the Superintendent to contribute
excessive strength sewage.
 
Surcharge Rates
BOD     $0.31 per pound
SS      $0.25 per pound
NH 3 -N $0.90 per pound
 
   (E)   The excessive strength surcharge shall be based on the following
formula with the total applied to the monthly bill of affected users:
(A(D-250) + B(E-300) + C(F-25)) x .00834 x G = Surcharge Payment ($/Mo.)
   Where formula components are as follows:
      A.   Surcharge rate for BOD, in $/pound.
      B.   Surcharge rate for SS in $/pound.
      C.   Surcharge rate for NH3-N, in $/pound.
      D.   User’s average BOD concentration, in mg/l.
      E.   User’s average SS concentration, in mg/l.
      F.   User’s average NH3-N concentration, in mg/l.
      G.   User’s monthly flow to sewage works, in 1.000 gallons.
   (F)   No reduction in sewage service charges, fees, or taxes shall be
permitted because of the fact that certain wastes discharged to the sewage
works contain less than 250 mg/l of BOD, 300 mg/l of SS, or 25 mg/l of NH3-N.
   (G)   Each user shall be notified, at least annually, in conjunction with a
regular bill of the rate and that portion of the total charge which is
attributable to operations and maintenance of the sewage system.
(1995 Code, § 52.112) (Ord. passed 4-6-1993; Ord. passed 9-29-2009; Ord. 52.00,
passed 8-27-2020)
§ 52.143 FINANCIAL RECORDS.
   (A)   The city shall maintain financial records to accurately account for
revenues generated by the treatment system and expenditures for operations and
maintenance of the system, including normal replacement costs.
   (B)   The city shall review not less often than annually the sewage
contribution of users, the total cost of operation and maintenance of the
sewage works, debt service obligation, and sewer service charges. Based on such
review, the city shall revise, when necessary, the schedule of sewer service
charges to accomplish the following:
      (1)   Maintain an equitable distribution of operations and maintenance
costs among users of the treatment system; and
      (2)   Generate sufficient revenues to onset costs associated with the
proper operation and maintenance of the sewage system, including normal
replacement costs, and to meet debt service requirements.
   (C)   Excessive strength surcharges shall be reviewed at the time of and in
conjunction with the review of sewer service charges. Surcharge rates shall be
revised where necessary to reflect current treatment and monitoring costs.
(1995 Code, § 52.113) (Ord. passed 4-6-1993)
§ 52.144 BILLING.
   (A)   All users shall be billed monthly. Billings for any particular month
shall be made within ten days after the end of the month. Payments are due
within 20 days after the end of the month. Any payment not received within 30
days after the end of the month shall be delinquent.
   (B)   A late payment penalty of 10% of the sewer service charge bill will be
added to each delinquent bill for each 30 days or portions thereof of
delinquency. When any bill is more than 90 days in default, water and/or sewer
service to such premises shall be discontinued until such bill is paid.
   (C)   When any bill (including interest and penalty) remains unpaid for one
year after the date due, such bill shall be recorded in the land records of the
county by the city and shall constitute a lien on the property. If such lien
(including interest and penalty) remains unpaid for a period of one year after
date of recordation, such property shall be subject to public sale.
(1995 Code, § 52.114) (Ord. passed 4-6-1993)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.155 RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES.
   The Manager and other duly authorized employees and representatives of the
Municipal Utility Commission and authorized representatives of applicable
federal, state, and local regulatory agencies bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing pertinent to
discharges to the public sewer system in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(1995 Code, § 52.115) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.156 RIGHT TO OBTAIN INFORMATION REGARDING DISCHARGE.
   Duly authorized employees and representatives are authorized to obtain
information concerning character, strength, and quantity of industrial wastes
which have a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the
wastewater collection system.
(1995 Code, § 52.116) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.157 ACCESS TO EASEMENTS.
   Duly authorized employees and representatives of the Municipal Utility
Commission bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the Commission or city holds a duly
negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of
the wastewater facilities lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent
work, if any, on the easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms
of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(1995 Code, § 52.117) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.158 SAFETY RULES TO BE OBSERVED.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
52.155, the Manager or duly authorized employees of the Municipal Utility
Commission shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury
or death to the Municipal Utility Commission employees, and the Commission
shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by
Commission employees and against liability claims and demands for personal
injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the
gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or
failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in §
52.111.
(1995 Code, § 52.118) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.159 SUSPENSION OF PERMIT OR SERVICE DUE TO HARMFUL CONTRIBUTIONS.
   (A)   The Municipal Utility Commission may suspend the wastewater treatment
service or wastewater contribution permit when such suspension is necessary, in
the opinion of the Commission, to stop an actual or threatened discharge which
presents or may present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health
or welfare of persons, to the environment, causes interference to the POTW, or
causes the Commission to violate any condition of its NPDES/KPDES permit.
   (B)   Any person notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service or the wastewater contribution permit shall immediately stop or
eliminate the contribution. In the event of a failure of the person to comply
voluntarily with the suspension order, the Commission shall take such steps as
deemed necessary including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to
prevent or minimize damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any
individuals. The Commission shall reinstate the wastewater contribution permit
or the wastewater treatment service upon proof of the elimination of the
noncomplying discharge. A detailed written statement submitted by the user
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence shall be submitted to the Commission within 15
days of the date of occurrence.
(1995 Code, § 52.119) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.160 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be
served by the Municipal Utility Commission with written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violation.
(1995 Code, § 52.120) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.161 CONTINUED VIOLATION.
   Any person who continues any violation beyond the time limit provided for
shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined in accordance with §
52.999. Each day in which such violation shall continue shall be deemed a
separate offense. In addition to the penalties provided herein, the Commission
or city may recover reasonable attorney’s fees, court costs, court reporter’s
fees, and other expenses of litigation by appropriate suit at law against the
person found to have violated the chapter or the orders, rules, regulations,
and permits issued hereinunder.
(1995 Code, § 52.121) (Ord. passed 1- -1987) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.162 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   The Municipal Utility Commission may order any user who causes or
allows an unauthorized discharge to show cause before the Commission why the
proposed enforcement action should not be taken. A notice shall be served on
the user specifying the time and place of a hearing to be held by the
Commission regarding the violation, the reasons why the action is to be taken,
the proposed enforcement action, and directing the user to show cause before
the Commission why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The
notice of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified
mail, return receipt requested, at least ten days before the hearing. Service
may be made on any agent or officer of a corporation.
   (B)   The Commission may itself conduct the hearing and take the evidence,
or may designate a representative to:
      (1)   Issue in the name of the Commission notices of hearings requesting
the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence
relevant to any matter involved in such hearings;
      (2)   Take the evidence; and
      (3)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the Commission
for action thereon.
   (C)   At any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, testimony taken must be
under oath and recorded stenographically. The transcript, so recorded, will be
made available to any member of the public or any party to the hearing upon
payment of the usual charges thereof.
   (D)   After the Commission has reviewed the evidence, it may issue an order
so the user responsible for the discharge directing that, following a specified
time period, the sewer service be discontinued unless adequate treatment
facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances are properly operated.
Further orders and directives as are necessary and appropriate may be issued.
   (E)   If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes, or other wastes
into the wastewater disposal system contrary to the provisions of this chapter,
federal or state pretreatment requirements, or any order of the Commission, the
Commission may commence an action for appropriate legal or equitable relief in
the appropriate court of this jurisdiction.
(1995 Code, § 52.122) (Ord. passed 1- -1987)
§ 52.163 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any user who violates the following conditions or applicable state and
federal regulations is subject to having his or her permit revoked in
accordance with the procedures of this chapter:
   (A)   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his or her discharge;
   (B)   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations, or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
   (C)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose of
inspection or monitoring; or
   (D)   Violation of conditions of the permit.
(1995 Code, § 52.123) (Ord. passed 1- -1987)
§ 52.164 WRITTEN NOTICE.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except §
52.005, shall be served by the Municipal Utility Commission and/or city or such
other authority, such as the County Health Department with written notice
stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for
the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of
time, not to exceed 90 days, stated in such notice, permanently cease all
violations.
(1995 Code, § 52.124) (Ord. passed 1- -1987)
§ 52.165 TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY TO DISCHARGE SEWAGE.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to termination of his or her authority to discharge sewage into the municipal
sewer system upon a determination pursuant to the terms of this chapter that
such violation currently exists and is of a continuing nature.
(1995 Code, § 52.125) (Ord. passed 1- -1987)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating §
52.008 shall upon conviction be punished by a fine of not more than $500 or by
imprisonment for not more than 12 months, or by both.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in §
52.164 shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter and, on conviction
thereof, shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $500 for each violation.
Each day in which such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(1995 Code, § 52.999) (Ord. passed 1- -1987)
CHAPTER 53: WATER
Section
   
53.01   Monthly water rates; reconnection fee; surcharge
   
53.02   Utility Commission tapping and connection fees
   
53.03   Security deposit
   
53.04   Connections to be approved; customer to be financially responsible
   
53.05   No free water service allowed
   
53.06   Dual connections prohibited
   
53.07   Meter readings and billing; disconnection
§ 53.01 MONTHLY WATER RATES; RECONNECTION FEE; SURCHARGE.
   (A)   Revised Pineville Utility Commission Schedule of Rates and Charges.
 1/1/2023       7/1/2023       7/1/2024               7/1/2025
 Rate per 1,000 Rate per 1,000 Rate per 1,000 Gallons Rate per 1,000 Gallons
 Gallons        Gallons
                          1/1/2023 7/1/2023      7/1/2024      7/1/2025
                          Rate per Rate per      Rate per      Rate per
                          1,000    1,000 Gallons 1,000 Gallons 1,000 Gallons
                          Gallons
   CITY
First 1,000 gallons       $14.78   $15.81        $16.92        $18.10
Next 9,000 gallons        7.80     8.35          8.93          9.56
Next 20,000 gallons       7.58     8.11          8.68          9.29
Over 30,000 gallons       6.91     7.39          7.91          8.46
   COUNTY
First 1,000 gallons       $23.08   $24.70        $26.43        $28.28
Next 9,000 gallons        8.60     9.20          9.84          10.53
Next 20,000 gallons       7.90     8.45          9.04          9.67
Over 30,000 gallons       7.42     7.94          8.50          9.10
Wholesale (1)             $3.05    $3.26         $3.49         $3.73
Average City Bill                  $40.86        $43.71        $46.78
(4,000 gallons)           $38.18   2.68          2.85          3.07
   Increase                     2.68          5.53          8.60
   Cumulative Increase
Average County Bill                $52.30        $55.95        $59.87
(4,000 gallons)           $48.88   3.42          3.65          3.92
   Increase                     3.42          7.07          10.99
   Cumulative Increase
Annual Rate Increase               7%            7%            7%
Percentage
   Fonde Water System
First 1,000 gallons       $23.08   $32.31
Next 9,000 gallons        8.60     12.04
Next 20,000 gallons       7.90     11.06
Over 30,000 gallons       7.42     10.39
Average Fonde Bill                 $68.43
(4,000 gallons)           $48.88   19.55
   Increase
Annual Rate Increase               40%
Percentage
 
   (B)   Approved Reconnection fee. The fee for reestablishing a discontinued
water connection is $6.
   (C)   Surcharge for new service area. In addition to the regular monthly
water bill completed pursuant to the schedule of rates set out in division (A)
above, all customers on the new service lines proposed to be constructed in the
Yellow Creek area shall pay a surcharge in the amount of $45 per month.
(Ord. passed 3-8-1971; Ord. passed 11-23-1976; Ord. passed 2-8-1982; Ord.
passed 5-7-1984; Ord. passed 7-13-1992; Ord. passed 9-29-2009; Ord. 53.00,
passed 8-27-2020; Ord. 53.00, passed 6-22-2023; Ord. 53.00, passed 6-22-2023)
§ 53.02 UTILITY COMMISSION TAPPING AND CONNECTION FEES.
   Tapping and connection fees shall be as follows:
 
Tap Fees
Short and long side;                                  
5/8 inch to 3/4 inch (up to 50 feet of service line) $1,000
1 inch                                               $1,000
2 inch, 3 inch and larger sizes                      $1,000 plus material cost
All other costs will remain the same as previously recorded.
 
(Ord. passed 3-8-1971; Ord. 53.00, passed 5-9-2022)
§ 53.03 SECURITY DEPOSIT.
   In addition to payment of the monthly service charges and fees listed in §§
53.01 and
53.02 above, each new water customer who has not heretofore made and paid over
to the Municipal Water Company a meter deposit, and who, after the City’s
acquisition of said system, desires to connect thereto and be served thereby,
shall be required to deposit with the City Treasurer the sum of $15 to secure
to the city the payment of water bills. The city shall be authorized to apply
the security deposit to the payment of any delinquent call upon the delinquent
customer to restore the amount of the security deposit, or be deemed delinquent
and subject to the penalties hereinafter provided.
(Ord. passed 3-8-1971)
§ 53.04 CONNECTIONS TO BE APPROVED; CUSTOMER TO BE FINANCIALLY RESPONSIBLE.
   (A)   No connections to the water mains and pipes of the waterworks and
water distribution system shall be made except by or under the supervision of a
duly authorized officer, agent, or employee of the city and after approval of
an application submitted by the proposed customer.
   (B)   All installations must meet the requirements of the State Department
of Health.
   (C)   In no case shall the city bear any financial responsibility for
plumbing installed on the property of any water customer, and each customer
shall be financially responsible for all such plumbing installed on his or her
property beginning at the outlet side of the meter.
(Ord. passed 3-8-1971) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.05 NO FREE WATER SERVICE ALLOWED.
   All connections to the waterworks and water distribution system to be
acquired, enlarged, and improved by the city shall be on a fully-metered basis
(subject to continuation of present circumstances until meters are installed,
if any unmetered condition now occurs), and no free water service shall be
allowed or permitted to any person, firm, or corporation or other entity,
including the city itself.
(Ord. passed 3-8-1971) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.06 DUAL CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No dual connections shall be permitted in connection with the waterworks and
water distribution system, it being required that each and every individual
residential, commercial, or industrial user shall obtain water services through
the use of a single meter.
(Ord. passed 3-8-1971) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.07 METER READINGS AND BILLING; DISCONNECTION.
   (A)   All water meters shall be read by the city monthly on or about the
twentieth day of each month, or as soon as thereafter as may be practical and
feasible.
   (B)   Water bills shall be rendered monthly to customers and users of the
services and facilities of the waterworks and water distribution system on or
before the first day of the month ensuing after the reading of the meters, or
as soon thereafter as may be practical and feasible. All customers shall be
required to pay the amount of their respective water bills in full and without
discount on or before the tenth of the month ensuing after the reading of the
meters and the rendering of the bill for water service, and after the close of
ordinary business hours on said tenth day a 10% penalty for delinquency shall
be added to the amount of the bill, and interest at 6% per annum, until the
bill, penalty, and interest are paid in full.
   (C)   The city shall disconnect utility service in accord with the following
policies:
      (1)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid and any deposit required
has been made. It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
         (a)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set
forth on the bill;
         (b)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second
bill will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid
within ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued
for nonpayment; and
         (c)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the city
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
      (2)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified.
   (D)   Service discontinued for nonpayment shall not be restored until the
account is paid in full, plus a $6 service charge for restoring service.
(Ord. passed 3-8-1971)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   Signal legends
   
70.21   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.22   Obedience to signals
   
70.23   Interference with signals
   
70.24   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.25   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.26   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
Administration and Enforcement
   
70.40   Enforcement
   
70.41   Disposition of deposits, funds, and fees
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Parking regulations, see
Ch. 72
   Parking schedules, see
Ch. 75
   Recreational vehicles, see
Ch. 73
   Traffic rules, see
Ch. 71
   Traffic schedules, see
Ch. 74
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney’s office when on official
business, and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing such boulevard.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and such other portions of the roadway
between two intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and
marked by stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION. The part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle whether or not
one such street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the Chief
of Police.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Chief of
Police and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and foot
paths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to proceed
in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. The portion of any street, improved, designated, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses, and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn on any street except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
(1995 Code, § 70.01)
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate
any of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in
this traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
(1995 Code, § 70.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
(1995 Code, § 70.03)
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or any other signal.
(1995 Code, § 70.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
shall, at his or her discretion, have authority to impose such traffic
regulations as he or she may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed
two weeks. If these temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer
than two weeks, the City Clerk- Treasurer shall be notified in writing of the
extended order.
(1995 Code, § 70.05)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “Go”, “Caution”, or “Stop”, or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic-control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “Go”. Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time
such signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or
“Go” signal. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “Stop”. Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such
other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or “Go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed
until it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by such
signal.
   (F)   “Yield Right-of-Way”. Vehicular traffic facing the “Yield Right-of-
Way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within such primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a “Yield Right-of-Way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 mph, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles entering an
expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights. When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane, all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above such lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at such place prohibits
such turn.
(1995 Code, § 70.15) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.21 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The City Council shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control
devices necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including
signs, shall be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation,
shall be uniform, and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All
traffic-control devices and signs shall conform to required state
specifications.
(1995 Code, § 70.16) (Ord. passed 2-18-1972)
§ 70.22 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic- control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to, or necessity for, such
barrier or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   Such sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority
as the personal direction of a police officer.
(1995 Code, § 70.17) (Ord. passed 2-18-1972) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully deface, damage, destroy, or
remove any mechanical electrical traffic-control light or device, or any stop
sign or other traffic- or parking-control signs or devices.
(1995 Code, § 70.18) (Ord. passed 2-18-1972) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.24 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the
movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal. No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal bearing any commercial
advertising. Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily
from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been
approved by the city.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
(1995 Code, § 70.19) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
(1995 Code, § 70.20)
§ 70.26 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency, any police officer may at his or her discretion disregard
traffic-control lights or signals or established regulations in order to
facilitate the movement of traffic.
(1995 Code, § 70.21)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.40 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the primary duty of the patrol person to enforce the provisions
of this title. It shall also be the duty of all other police officers to
enforce the provisions of this title, particularly §§
70.23,
72.004,
72.014(D),
72.015(E) and
Chapter 74.
(1995 Code, § 70.30) (Ord. passed 2-18-1972)
§ 70.41 DISPOSITION OF DEPOSITS, FUNDS, AND FEES.
   (A)   The parking charges and the fines herein imposed are hereby levied and
imposed to provide for the proper regulation and control of traffic upon the
public street and to defray the cost of supervising and regulating the parking
of vehicles and the flow of traffic upon the public streets, including the cost
of the purchase, supervision, protection, installation, inspection,
maintenance, control and use of traffic regulating devices and signs and such
other use as the City Council may determine from time to time.
   (B)   All fines imposed and collected for violations of this title shall be
paid into the General Municipal Fund of the city’s treasury.
(1995 Code, § 70.31) (Ord. passed 2-18-1972)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
(1995 Code, § 70.99)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
Accidents
   
71.20   Duty of operator
   
71.21   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.35   Reckless driving; injury to streets
   
71.36   Smoke emission or other nuisance
   
71.37   Traffic on flood wall right-of-way
Parades
   
71.50   Definitions
   
71.51   Permit required
   
71.52   Application for permit
   
71.53   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.54   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.55   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.56   Alternative permit
   
71.57   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.58   Contents of permit
   
71.59   Duties of permittee
   
71.60   Public conduct during parades
   
71.61   Revocation of permit
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Traffic, generally, see
Ch. 70
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he or she shall be deemed to have violated this
division (C) rather than division (B) above.
(1995 Code, § 71.01) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8)) (1995 Code, § 71.02) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
(1995 Code, § 71.03) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Chief of Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension. On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building, the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. The operator
of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley from the
roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
(1995 Code, § 71.04) Penalty, see §
71.99
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.20 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately, ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage, and render such assistance as may be needed.
(1995 Code, § 71.15) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.21 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner, or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
(1995 Code, § 71.16) Penalty, see §
71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.35 RECKLESS DRIVING; INJURY TO STREETS.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure the highway.
   (C)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure vehicles or equipment located in or near a highway
work zone.
   (D)   A person shall not operate any vehicle in a reckless or negligent
manner as to endanger persons or property in or near a highway, or in or near a
highway work zone.
   (E)   In addition to any other penalty, an operator who violates divisions
(C) or (D) of this section shall be subject to revocation of his or her
operator’s license under KRS 186.560.
(KRS 189.290) (1995 Code, § 71.25) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.36 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke, or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) (1995 Code, § 71.26) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.37 TRAFFIC ON FLOOD WALL RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FLOOD WALL. The existing flood control levee situated within the City of
Pineville, Kentucky, and all additions or improvements which are appurtenant
thereto, and all such additions or improvements which may be added thereto in
the future.
      VEHICLE. Any mechanical device, regardless of how powered, which was
designed for operation by or conveyance of one or more people.
   (B)   Flood wall regulations. No person other than the duly authorized
agents or employees of the city and City Utility Commission shall operate any
vehicle of any type upon the Flood Wall right-of-way thereof.
(Ord. 71.27, passed 3-14-2011)
PARADES
§ 71.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 71.40)
§ 71.51 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(1995 Code, § 71.41) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.52 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by such
officer.
   (A)   The application for a parade permit shall be filed not less than five
days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is proposed to
conduct the parade.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his or her behalf; and
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council.
(1995 Code, § 71.42) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.53 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment enroute to a fire; and
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays enroute.
(1995 Code, § 71.43) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.54 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he or she disapproves the
application, he or she shall mail to the applicant within the three days,
Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excepted, after the date on which the
application was filed, a notice of his or her action stating the reasons for
his or her denial of the permit.
(1995 Code, § 71.44)
§ 71.55 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
(1995 Code, § 71.45)
§ 71.56 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his or her acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall
conform to the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit
under this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 71.46)
§ 71.57 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief; and
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
(1995 Code, § 71.47)
§ 71.58 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 71.48) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.59 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   (A)   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and
conditions and with all applicable laws and ordinances.
   (B)   The parade chairperson or other person heading or leading the activity
shall carry the parade permit on his or her person during the conduct of the
parade.
(1995 Code, § 71.49) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.60 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
(1995 Code, § 71.50) Penalty, see §
71.99
Cross-reference:
   Parking on parade route, see §
72.008
§ 71.61 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
(1995 Code, § 71.51)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.36 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $60 nor
more than $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 30 days,
or both.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
71.37(B) shall be guilty of a violation within the means of KRS 534.040 of the
Kentucky Penal Code, and upon conviction shall pay fine not to exceed $500 for
each offense.
      (2)   Any person who violates §
71.37(B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $20
nor more than $500, and any vehicle operated by that person upon the flood wall
shall be confiscated and disposed of in accordance with existing law of the
Commonwealth.
(KRS 189.993(8)) (1995 Code, § 71.99) (Ord. 71.27, passed 3-14-2011; Ord.
71.99, passed 3-14-2011)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.001   Definitions
   
72.002   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.003   Manner of parking
   
72.004   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.005   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.006   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.007   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
72.008   Parking on parade route
   
72.009   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.010   Owner responsibility
   
72.011   Parking in parks
   
72.012   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.013   Parking with handicapped permits
   
72.014   Unloading zones
   
72.015   Taxi space on streets
   
72.016   Reserved spaces for use of county courthouse
   
72.017   Parking vehicle on off-street premises or parking areas; consent
required by owner
   
72.018   Sundays and certain hours excluded
Impounding
   
72.030   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
72.031   Reserved
   
72.032   Sale of vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.045   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.046   Termination of emergency
   
72.047   Snow emergency routes
City Parking Lot
   
72.060   Establishment
   
72.061   Certain vehicles and trucks prohibited from parking on lot
Administration and Enforcement
   
72.075   Prima facie proof of ownership
   
72.076   Parking Board of Appeals; appeals from parking violation citations
 
   
72.999   Penalty
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. Public ways, ordinarily of narrow width, which generally parallel
streets and bisect subdivided blocks of building lots within the city.
   OPERATOR. The individual operating a vehicle on a street or alley, whether
as owner, or as agent, employee, or permittee of the owner thereof.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, association, partnership, and all other
legal entities.
   STREET. Public streets and ways in the city, whether designated as a street,
avenue, boulevard, place, or road established for the use of vehicles, but does
not include alleys.
   VEHICLE. Any contrivance, machine, or other device designated for
transportation of person or property upon a public way, propelled by motor,
engine, person, or animal.
(1995 Code, § 72.01) (Ord. passed 2-18-1972)
§ 72.002 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
(1995 Code, § 72.02) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.003 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that such
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. Such backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway of moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the centerline of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet
of the centerline of any street. Such diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which such vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park such
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
(1995 Code, § 72.03) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.004 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle in or on any of
the following portions of the streets and public ways:
      (1)   On any public sidewalk;
      (2)   On U.S. Highway 25E within the city;
      (3)   On the west side of Pine Street between Kentucky Avenue and
Virginia Avenue (next to courthouse square);
      (4)   In alleyways nor in other areas designated as no-parking areas by
painting the curb in such areas yellow, or so designated by a “no parking” or
other similar sign, device, or marking.
      (5)   On Oak Street between Park Avenue and Tennessee Avenue;
      (6)   On Tennessee Avenue from Oak Street to Laurel Street;
      (7)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (8)   Within 15 feet of the corner of the building lot at the
intersection of any street with another street or avenue;
      (9)   Within ten feet of the corner of the intersection of any street
with an alley;
      (10)   On that part of a street at the entrance of a private driveway or
driveway entrance leading into a gasoline service station, garage, or other
business establishment, as would block or obstruct free passage to and from
such private driveway;
      (11)   The east side of Holly Street adjacent to the Pineville High
School premises between Virginia Avenue and alley;
      (12)   The west side of Laurel Street adjacent to the Pineville High
School premises between Virginia Avenue and alley;
      (13)   Parking of motor vehicles is prohibited between midnight and 6:00
a.m. on the following portions of public streets:
         (a)   Cherry Street, between Virginia Avenue and U.S. Highway 25E;
         (b)   Pine Street, between the Cumberland River Bridge and U.S.
Highway 25E;
         (c)   Walnut Street, between Virginia Avenue and U.S. Highway 25E;
         (d)   Oak Street, between Virginia Avenue and U.S. Highway 25E;
         (e)   Virginia Avenue, between Cherry Street and Oak Street;
         (f)   Kentucky Avenue, between Cherry Street and Oak Street; and
         (g)   Tennessee Avenue, between Cherry Street and Oak Street.
      (14)   No parking shall be permitted on the west side of Pine Street
beside the Kentucky Utilities building from Kentucky Avenue to the alleyway
pending the completion and opening of the new U.S. Route 25E.
      (15)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any semi-tractor,
semi-trailer, or coal truck on the streets of any R-1, R-2, R-3, B-1, and B-
2 zones between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.; however, the same shall
not be unlawful in any B-3, I-1, or I-2 zones at any time, with the permission
of the property owner.
   (B)   The sidewalk curbs at the portions of the streets designated in
division (A)(3), (A)(5), (A)(6), (A)(7), (A)(8), (A)(9), and (A)(10) of this
section shall be painted with a yellow color and such streets’ portions may be
otherwise marked or designated with markings of said color, such color to have
the meaning and significance of “No Parking”.
   (C)   “No Parking” signs or notices shall be placed along those portions of
streets and ways designated in division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(4), (A)(11), and
(A)(12) of this section.
(1995 Code, § 72.04) (Ord. passed 2-18-1972; Ord. passed 5-1-1972; Ord. passed
6-4-1973; Ord. passed 8-8-1988; Ord. passed 1-31-1991) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.005 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his or her duty to observe other and more
restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of
vehicles in specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to handicapped parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice
thereof. However, in lieu of erecting such signs or in conjunction therewith,
the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is
prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No such regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the
signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the
time of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions
which by their very nature would not require such signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
(1995 Code, § 72.05) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.006 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
(1995 Code, § 72.06) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.007 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle on any
of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer.
Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or streets
of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed abandoned, and
shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city pertaining to
abandoned motor vehicles.
(1995 Code, § 72.07) Penalty, see §
72.999
Cross-reference:
   Removal of abandoned vehicles, see §
72.030 through
72.032
§ 72.008 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his or her judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a
part of the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs
to that effect, and to prohibit and prevent such parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of such signs or directions.
(1995 Code, § 72.08) Penalty, see §
72.999
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§
71.50 through
71.61
§ 72.009 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another’s property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee, or person in charge of such property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise trespass
in violation of division (A) above, the owner, lessee, or person in charge of
the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle removed in
accordance with the provisions of §§
72.030 through
72.032.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off- street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the owner’s
expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B) above.
(1995 Code, § 72.09) Penalty, see §
72.999
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.010 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
(1995 Code, § 72.10) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.011 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway. However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any such park or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on such roadway.
(1995 Code, § 72.11) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.012 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
(1995 Code, § 72.12) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.013 PARKING WITH HANDICAPPED PERMITS.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk-Treasurer
pursuant to appropriate county ordinances for handicapped persons, when
operated by a handicapped person or when transporting a handicapped person, may
be parked in a designated handicapped parking place, or when parked where any
parking limit is imposed may be parked for two hours in excess of the parking
limit. The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone for that period of
time necessary to permit entrance or exit of the handicapped person to or from
the parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a “no stopping” or “no
parking” zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon, or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
   (C)   There shall be handicapped parking established as the Mayor may
hereafter direct and such handicapped parking shall be designated by the
painting of the handicapped symbol in such parking space or by the erection of
a handicapped parking only sign. It shall be unlawful for any nonhandicapped
person to occupy any space so designated.
(1995 Code, § 72.13) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.014 UNLOADING ZONES.
   (A)   Upon proper application therefor by a person conducting a business
whose business requires space on the street in front of or at such place of
business for the purpose of loading into vehicles and unloading therefrom
merchandise, goods, materials or other property, the City Council may set off a
space consisting of not more than two parking spaces in the street to the front
of or at such business establishment for such unloading purchases.
   (B)   Such loading-unloading space shall be designated by proper marking
with paint of a green color painted on the sidewalk curb and surface of the
street.
   (C)   Such loading-unloading space shall not be designated or established or
marked until the applicant has paid to the Clerk-Treasurer a fee hereby fixed
at the rate of $10 per month for each parking space within the loading-
unloading space; and no loading- unloading zone shall be established for a
period of less than six months and payment for same at said rate has been paid
in advance.
   (D)   Neither the applicant, nor any person engaged in conducting such
business or employed at such business establishment, nor any other person,
shall park any vehicle in such loading-unloading space except for the sole
purpose of loading and unloading materials required in the business of the
applicant, and such loading or unloading shall be accomplished as expeditiously
as reasonably possible and the vehicle shall be removed therefrom promptly upon
completion thereof. It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle in an
establishment and designated loading- unloading space except as herein
provided.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle in any marked
and designated loading- unloading space in violation of the provisions of
division (D) above.
(1995 Code, § 72.14) (Ord. passed 2-18-1972) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.015 TAXI SPACE ON STREETS.
   (A)   The City Council may designate a space on a street where the owner of
an automobile, duly licensed by the Commonwealth to operate same as a taxi for
hire to transport person, may park same for the purpose of soliciting and
receiving passengers for hire thereat.
   (B)   A licensed taxi operator may make application to the City Council for
such taxi space, describing the vehicle and furnishing evidence that he or she
is licensed by the Commonwealth to operate such taxi during the period for
which such taxi space is sought. In the event such application is in proper
order, same shall be approved by the City Council which shall designate a
suitable space on a street for such taxi, bearing in mind the purpose of this
title to provide for the orderly flow and movement of traffic upon city
streets, but same shall not be located in front of a place of business without
the written consent of the operator of such business establishment.
   (C)   Upon designation of such taxi space, the taxi operator shall pay to
the Clerk-Treasurer a sum equal to $10 per month for each parking space so
allotted to the taxi operator, and the Clerk-Treasurer shall thereupon issue to
the operator a permit for such taxi space. However, no permit for a taxi space
shall be issued for a period of less than six months.
   (D)   Upon issuance of such permit, the taxi space so designated by the City
Council shall be marked and identified by lines painted with green paint on the
surface of the street and on the curb of the sidewalk and/or otherwise identify
it as a space exclusively for parking of the taxi for which the permit is
issued.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the operator of the
taxi for which the taxi space is designated, to park a vehicle in such
designated taxi space.
(1995 Code, § 72.15) (Ord. passed 2-18-1972) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.016 RESERVED SPACES FOR USE OF COUNTY COURTHOUSE.
   There shall be nine spaces established as being reserved for the elected
officials in the county courthouse in the city. The spaces shall be along the
courthouse side of Virginia Avenue starting with the space at Pine Street and
running consecutively for the said nine spaces. Signs shall be erected by the
city designating each space specifically for each such elected official and
each elected official shall be entitled to himself or herself the use and
occupancy of such space without charge. It shall be unlawful for any person
other than such public official to occupy any such designated parking space.
(1995 Code, § 72.16) (Ord. passed 8-8-1988) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.017 PARKING VEHICLE ON OFF-STREET PREMISES OR PARKING AREAS; CONSENT
REQUIRED BY OWNER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park an automobile or other
vehicle on the premises of any person without consent of the owner or occupant
of such premises.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any automobile or other
vehicle on the off-street parking lot or parking area provided by any person,
firm, or corporation, for the use of employees, person doing or having business
with the owner or occupant of said premises, and invitees at a place thereon,
contrary to the rules and regulations of the owner or occupant of the premises
as posted at and or marked on the pavement or surface of the parking lot or
area and the marked spaces provided therefor.
   (C)   Any vehicle found parked on an off-street parking lot or area
hereinabove mentioned in a manner obstructing access of a fire truck, loading
and unloading vehicles, or ambulances to the owners building or establishment
shall be summarily removed from said parking lot or area, and the owner or
operator of such vehicle shall be required to pay the cost and expense of
towing said vehicle therefrom and the storage bill until called for by the
owner of operators, same to be in addition to any fine imposed under § 
72.999.
(1995 Code, § 72.17) (Ord. passed 3-4-1974) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.018 SUNDAYS AND CERTAIN HOURS EXCLUDED.
   Excepting the provisions of §§
72.004(A) and
72.015(E) hereof, this chapter shall not apply to the parking of vehicles
during Sundays or during the hours between 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the
following day.
(1995 Code, § 72.18) (Ord. passed 12-18-1972)
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.030 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All police officers are empowered to authorize the impoundment of a
vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinances after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department. Should a vehicle be moved without the consent
and approval of the Police Department, a warrant shall be issued immediately
for the violator’s arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees, and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle’s release.
(1995 Code, § 72.30)
§ 72.031 RESERVED.
§ 72.032 SALE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor vehicles
in either a private capacity or for the city who has complied with the
notification requirements of state law shall have a lien on the motor vehicle
and its contents for the applicable and reasonable charges assessed in
accordance with state law, as long as it remains in his or her possession.
   (B)   If after a period of 45 days, the applicable and reasonable charges
assessed in accordance with state law have not been paid, the motor vehicle and
its contents, except as set forth in state law, may be sold to pay the charges
after the owner and any lienholder have been notified by certified mail at the
addresses specified in state law, ten days prior to the time and place of the
sale. If the proceeds of the sale of any vehicle pursuant to this section are
insufficient to satisfy accrued charges, the sale and collection of proceeds
shall not constitute a waiver or release of responsibility for payment of
unpaid charges by the owner or responsible casualty insurer of the vehicle. A
lien on a vehicle under this section shall be subject to prior recorded liens,
unless released by any existing lienholder pursuant to division (D).
   (C)   (1)   A lienholder having a prior recorded lien listed on the title
issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be notified by certified mail
within the first ten days of impoundment in accordance with KRS 281.928.
      (2)   The notification, in addition to the requirements of KRS 281.928,
shall include the make, model, license number, vehicle identification number,
owner's name and last known address, and tentative date of sale for the
vehicle, and state that the towing company or storage facility seeks to obtain
a new title free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
      (3)   If the certified letter required under this division is not sent
within the ten days by the towing and storage company, then only ten days of
storage may be charged.
      (4)   The lienholder has the right to take possession of the motor
vehicle after showing proof of lien still enforced, and paying the reasonable
or agreed towing and storage charges on the motor vehicle.
      (5)   If a lienholder does not exercise the right to take possession of
the motor vehicle under this paragraph within 45 days of notification, the
towing company or storage facility may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145
free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
      (6)   Nothing in this section shall allow the transfer of a vehicle
subject to a lien, except as provided in KRS 186A.190 or in division (C)(5) of
this section.
   (D)   If there are no lienholders required to be notified under KRS 281.920
to 281.936 and 359.230 and this section, and the owner does not exercise the
right to take possession of the motor vehicle under this section within 45 days
of notification required under KRS 281.928, the towing company or storage
facility may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145 free and clear of any liens,
excluding tax liens.
(KRS 376.275(1)) (1995 Code, § 72.32)
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.045 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official finds
that falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain will create a condition which makes
it necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever he or she finds on the basis of a firm forecast of
snow, sleet, or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may
create a condition making it necessary that such parking be prohibited, he or
she is authorized to announce such prohibition, to become effective at a time
specified by him or her. After the effective time of such prohibition no person
shall park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a snow
emergency route. However, if a fall of snow, sleet, or freezing rain occurs
after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the Chief of Police or other
authorized city official has not announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on
snow emergency routes is to be prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle
parked on a snow emergency route may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following
such fall. The prohibition of parking announced by the Chief of Police or other
authorized city official under the authority of this section shall remain in
effect until he or she announces the termination of the snow emergency, in part
or in which the prohibition of parking authorized by this section shall no
longer be in effect.
(1995 Code, § 72.45) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.046 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall find
that some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency
prohibition no longer exist, he or she is authorized to declare the termination
of the emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on announcement.
If such announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it
shall be repeated between those hours.
(1995 Code, § 72.46)
§ 72.047 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Chief
of Police or other authorized city official. On such street or highway
designated as a snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this
effect.
(1995 Code, § 72.47)
CITY PARKING LOT
§ 72.060 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The city has established an off-street parking area, known as the city
parking lot, for the parking of vehicles, same being located at the northeast
corner of the intersection of Virginia Avenue and Walnut Street. The parking
lot is divided into two halves, the front half abutting Virginia Avenue and the
rear half abutting the alley.
(1995 Code, § 72.65) (Ord. passed 2-18-1972)
§ 72.061 CERTAIN VEHICLES AND TRUCKS PROHIBITED FROM PARKING ON LOT.
   No motor bus, tractor-trailer, trailer, or truck having a capacity of more
than three-fourths of a ton, shall be parked on the city parking lot.
(1995 Code, § 72.66) (Ord. passed 2-18-1972) Penalty, see §
72.999
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 72.075 PRIMA FACIE PROOF OF OWNERSHIP.
   The fact that an automobile which is illegally parked is registered in the
name of a person shall be considered prima facie proof that such person was in
control of the automobile at the time of such parking.
(1995 Code, § 72.80) (Ord. passed 8-8-1988)
§ 72.076 PARKING BOARD OF APPEALS; APPEALS FROM PARKING VIOLATION CITATIONS.
   There is hereby established a Parking Board of Appeals to consist of three
persons residing in the city of the age of majority, same to be appointed for
three-year terms by the Mayor. The said Board of Appeals is hereby vested with
the authority to conduct a summary hearing at the request of any person
aggrieved by the issuance of a citation under the terms of this chapter and
shall, immediately following the close of such hearing, issue to any such
aggrieved person its adjudication concerning such parking violation citation.
Such adjudication by the Board of Appeals shall be either unanimous or by
majority decision. All three members of the Board of Appeals shall be present
during any such adjudication and shall hear any appeal upon 30 days’ advance
notice or at their regularly scheduled meetings, in the event the Board of
Appeals shall determine to conduct any such regularly scheduled meetings.
(1995 Code, § 72.81) (Ord. passed 8-8-1988)
§ 72.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
(1995 Code, § 70.99)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and mopeds
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
Golf Carts
   
73.15   Definitions
   
73.16   Local government to regulate
   
73.17   Operation on a public roadway
   
73.18   Characteristics of roadways that can be used by golf carts
   
73.19   Insurance
   
73.20   Traffic rules
   
73.21   Exemption from motor vehicle regulations
   
73.22   Authority to regulate access to certain streets
   
73.23   General exception
All Terrain Vehicles
   
73.35   Vehicles regulated by state and local laws
   
73.36   City streets designated for ATV use
 
   
73.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Exhibit Map A
Cross-reference:
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02(C)
   Traffic rules, see
Ch. 71
   Traffic schedules, see
Ch. 74
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot, or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on such bicycle.
(1995 Code, § 73.01) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOPEDS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MOPED. A pedal bicycle with a helper motor rated no more than two brake
horsepower, a cylinder capacity not exceeding 50 cubic centimeters, an
automatic transmission not requiring clutching or shifting by the operator
after the drive system is engaged and capable of a maximum speed of not more
than 30 mph.
(KRS 189.285)
      MOTORCYCLE. Any motor-driven vehicle having a seat or saddle for use of
the operation and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact
with the ground, but excluding tractors and vehicles on which the operator and
passengers ride in an enclosed cab, and excluding a moped as defined in this
section.
      OPERATOR. Any person in actual control of a motorcycle or moped.
   (B)   No motorcycle shall be permitted to operate in this city at a greater
speed than that allowed or permitted for the operation of automobiles on the
several streets and public passways in the city.
   (C)   The same rules and regulations and ordinances now in force and effect
in the city as to the speed, observance of traffic signs, stops, and stop
lights, and all other ordinances affecting automobiles and their traffic
regulations are now extended to include motorcycles, including the penalties
attached thereto for any violation thereof.
   (D)   No person shall operate a motorcycle:
      (1)   Except when that person is in possession of a valid motorcycle
operators license;
      (2)   Unless that person uses an approved eye-protective device in the
manner prescribed by the Secretary of the Department of Transportation at all
times the vehicle is in motion; and
      (3)   Unless the motorcycle is equipped with a rearview mirror.
   (E)   No person shall operate or ride as a passenger on a motorcycle:
      (1)   Except on a seat permanently attached to that vehicle and
specifically designed to carry the operator or passenger in a safe manner;
      (2)   Except when using a footrest permanently attached to that vehicle
and specifically designed to carry that person in a safe manner; and
      (3)   Unless that person wears approved protective headgear, in the
manner prescribed by the Secretary of the Department of Transportation, at all
times that the vehicle is in motion.
(1995 Code, § 73.02) (Ord. passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as “play streets”
by the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful
for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of any
kind, to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
(1995 Code, § 73.03) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates, or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he or she is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of
any vehicle.
(1995 Code, § 73.04) Penalty, see §
73.99
GOLF CARTS
§ 73.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. Any self-propelled vehicle that:
      (1)   Is designed for the transportation of players or maintaining
equipment on a golf course, while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising
the play of golf, or maintaining the condition of the grounds on a golf course;
      (2)   Has a minimum of four wheels;
      (3)   Is designed to operate at a speed of not more than 35 mph;
      (4)   Is designed to carry not more than six persons including the
driver;
      (5)   Has a maximum gross vehicle weight of 2,500 pounds;
      (6)   Has a maximum rated payload capacity of 1,200 pounds; and
      (7)   Meets the federal motor vehicle safety standards for low-speed
vehicles set forth in 49 C.F.R. § 571.500.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT. A city, county, charter county government, urban-county
government, consolidated local government, unified local government, or a
special district.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2008)
§ 73.16 LOCAL GOVERNMENT TO REGULATE.
   The governing body of a local government may authorize and regulate the
operation of a golf cart on any public roadway under its jurisdiction if the
local government specifies each roadway that is open for golf cart use.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2008)
§ 73.17 OPERATION ON A PUBLIC ROADWAY.
   A golf cart operated on a designated public roadway must:
   (A)   Be issued a permit for the golf cart by the local government;
   (B)   Display a sticker or permit that identifies that the golf cart is
allowed to be operated on specific roadways within the local government; and
   (C)   Be inspected by a certified inspector designated by the County Sheriff
and certified through the Department of Vehicle Regulation to ensure that the
golf cart complies with the requirements herein. The inspection fee under this
division (C) shall not exceed $5 with an additional fee not to exceed $10 per
trip charged if it becomes necessary for the certified inspector to travel to
the site of the golf cart rather than having the golf cart brought to the
Sheriff’s inspection area.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2008)
§ 73.18 CHARACTERISTICS OF ROADWAYS THAT CAN BE USED BY GOLF CARTS.
   A person may operate a golf cart on a designated public roadway if:
   (A)   The posted speed limit of the roadway is 35 mph or less;
   (B)   The operator of the golf cart does not cross a roadway at an
intersection where the roadway being crossed has a posted speed limit of more
than 35 mph;
   (C)   The operator has a valid operators license in his or her possession;
   (D)   The golf cart is being operated between sunrise and sunset; and
   (E)   The golf cart displays a slow-moving vehicle emblem in compliance with
KRS 189.820.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2008)
§ 73.19 INSURANCE.
   A golf cart operating on a public roadway shall be insured in compliance
with KRS 304.39-080 by the owner or operator, and the proof of insurance shall
be inside the golf cart at all times of operation on a public roadway.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2008)
§ 73.20 TRAFFIC RULES.
   Any person operating a golf cart on a public roadway shall be subject to the
traffic regulations of KRS Chapter 189.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2008)
§ 73.21 EXEMPTION FROM MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATIONS.
   A golf cart operating on a designated public roadway is not considered to be
a motor vehicle and is exempt from:
   (A)   Title requirements of KRS 186.020;
   (B)   Vehicle registration requirements of KRS 186.050; and
   (C)   Emissions compliance certificates pursuant to KRS 224.20-720.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2008)
§ 73.22 AUTHORITY TO REGULATE ACCESS TO CERTAIN STREETS.
   The Transportation Cabinet may prohibit the operation of a golf cart on a
public roadway that crosses a state-maintained highway under its jurisdiction
if it determines that such prohibition is necessary in the interest of public
safety.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2008)
§ 73.23 GENERAL EXCEPTION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to a golf cart that is not
used on a public roadway except to cross a roadway while following a golf cart
path on a golf course.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2008)
ALL TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 73.35 VEHICLES REGULATED BY STATE AND LOCAL LAWS.
   All applicable laws shall be complied with in the operation of any ATVs,
which includes but is not limited to KRS 189.010 et seq.
(Ord. passed 1-10-2011)
§ 73.36 CITY STREETS DESIGNATED FOR ATV USE.
   The city hereby declares that the streets, roads, lanes, drives, and
alleyways as shown on Exhibit Map A, which is located in Appendix A and made a
part hereof as if fully set forth herein, are city streets designated for the
operation of ATVs within the city limits of the city.
(Ord. passed 1-10-2011)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A) Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
73.01 through
73.04 shall be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be fined not more
than $50 for each offense.
(1995 Code, § 73.99)
APPENDIX A: EXHIBIT MAP A.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0cdd92e9fb5a61f3d2d17f09c83dc0d844f3510a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1461.jpg]
 
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Stop streets
      
II.   One-way streets
      
III.   Do-not-enter streets
SCHEDULE I: STOP STREETS.
   (A)   Except to the extent hereinbefore in this schedule, traffic on streets
or avenues intersecting with the following streets shall come to a complete
stop before preceding into such section of traffic on the mentioned portions of
the following streets and avenues having the right-of-way in traveling over
same superior to traffic entering same from other streets. To that end, two-way
stop signs shall be installed at each side of the intersection of streets with
the following streets, specified preferred streets and avenues to warn traffic
to come to a stop before entering upon said preferred streets.
 
Street           Between                         Ord. No. Date
Cherry Street    Kentucky Avenue and Park Avenue         2-18-1972
Kentucky Avenue  Kentucky Avenue and Park Avenue         2-18-1972
Pine Street      Kentucky Avenue and Park Avenue         2-18-1972
Tennessee Avenue Kentucky Avenue and Park Avenue         2-18-1972
Virginia Avenue  Kentucky Avenue and Park Avenue         2-18-1972
 
   (B)   Four-way stop signs, whereby all traffic must stop at the street
intersection before preceding into same, shall be installed at the following
street intersections:
 
Street Intersections               Ord. No. Date
Cherry Street and Tennessee Avenue         2-5-1973
Kentucky Avenue and Cedar Street           8-20-1973
Kentucky Avenue and Laurel Street          8-20-1973
Tennessee Avenue and Walnut Street         2-18-1972
Virginia Avenue and Cedar Street           8-20-1973
 
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a person, while operating a motor vehicle, to
fail to bring such vehicle to a complete stop in compliance with such four-way
or two-way stop signs, before proceeding into a street intersection where such
stop signs are installed.
   (D)   The City Council may hereafter establish and install such stop signs
at other street intersections, and provisions of this schedule shall apply to
same when so installed.
(1995 Code, Ch. 74 Schd. II) (Ord. passed 2-18-1972; Ord. passed 2-5-1973; Ord.
passed 8-20-1973) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II: ONE-WAY STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for vehicles to be so operated as to travel or be
parked on one-way streets except in the direction of travel herein designated,
such one-way streets and direction of travel thereon being as follows:
 
Street            Between               Direction of Travel Ord. No. Date
Cumberland Avenue Pine Street and       West                         11-14-1977
                  Laurel Street
Cypress Street    Horseshoe Drive and   West                         9-13-1993
                  Tennessee Avenue
Fifth Street      Toward Four Mile, Ky. North                        7-11-1988
Holly Street      Virginia Avenue and   North                        5-1-1972
                  Cumberland Avenue
Laurel Street     Cumberland Avenue and South                        5-1-1972
                  Virginia Avenue
Maple Street      Tennessee Avenue and  South                        8-7-1972
                  Park Avenue
 
(1995 Code, Ch. 74 Schd. III) (Ord. passed 5-1-1972; Ord. passed 8-7-1972; Ord.
passed 11-14-1977; Ord. passed 7-11-1988; Ord. passed 9-13-1993) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III: DO-NOT-ENTER STREETS.
   (A)   The following streets shall be designated Do Not Enter.
 
Street       Direction Date
Sixth Street South     7-11-1988
 
   (B)   The alleyway located off of Virginia Avenue between Della’s Beauty
Shop and Odie’s Gym and Fitness Center shall be used in a manner as stated in
Ord. passed 12-11-2017 to all traffic without any further action being
required.
(1995 Code, Ch. 74 Schd. V) (Ord. passed 12-11-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Truck parking restricted
SCHEDULE I: TRUCK PARKING RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful to park a panel truck, or a motor truck having a
capacity of one and one-half tons or more, or any bus upon the following
portions of the following public streets:
 
Street      Between                         Ord. No. Passed
Pine Street Park Avenue and Virginia Avenue         5-1-1972
 
(1995 Code, Ch. 75 Schd. II) (Ord. passed 5-1-1972) Penalty, see §
72.999
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   NUISANCES; WEEDS
      
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   LITTERING
      
95.   DISASTER AND EMERGENCY SERVICES
      
96.   FAIR HOUSING
      
97.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.04   Torture of dogs or cats
   
90.05   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.06   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.07   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
   
90.08   Keeping or harboring of vicious animals prohibited
   
90.09   Barnyard animals
Dogs
   
90.20   Definition
   
90.21   License required
   
90.22   Registration and issuance of license
   
90.23   License tag to be attached to dog
   
90.24   Dogs running at large
   
90.25   Noise disturbance
   
90.26   Impoundment
   
90.27   Reclaiming impounded dog
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 92
   Parks and recreation, see
Ch. 97
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To forsake entirely, or to neglect or refuse to provide or perform
the legal obligations for care and support of an animal by its owner or his or
her agent.
(KRS 257.010)
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care, or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
§ 90.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or permit it to go on any private yard, lot, or enclosure without the
consent of the owner of the yard, lot, or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by the animal upon the premises
of another.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when,
except as authorized by law, he or she intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in KRS 525.125 in
causing it to fight for pleasure or profit (including, but not limited to,
being a spectator or vendor at an event where a four-legged animal is caused to
fight for pleasure or profit), mutilation, beating, torturing any animal other
than a dog or cat, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food, drink, space,
or health care, or by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his or her custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This division shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including, but not
limited to, horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows, or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with the United States Department of
Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject to other federal laws
governing animal research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
(KRS 525.130(1) and (2))  Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross-reference:
   Torture of dogs or cats, see §
90.04
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a Class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 90.04 TORTURE OF DOGS OR CATS.
   (A)   As used in this section, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions apply.
      SERIOUS PHYSICAL INJURY OR INFIRMITY. Physical injury or physical
infirmity that creates a substantial risk of death, protracted loss, or
impairment of the function of the limb or bodily organ caused by willful or
wanton disregard while restrained. As used in this section:
         (a)   PHYSICAL INFIRMITY. Includes intentional starvation,
dehydration, hypothermia, hyperthermia, muscle atrophy, restriction of blood
flow to a limb or organ, mange or other skin disease or parasitic infestation
for which medical care has  been denied, denial of life-saving medical care or
professional euthanasia while intentionally restraining with the intent to
cause or the wanton disregard for extreme physical pain, serious injury, or
death; and
         (b)   PHYSICAL INJURY. Includes substantial physical pain, serious
injury, or death intentionally caused by fractures, cuts, burns, punctures,
bruises due to crushing, burning, drowning, beating, poisoning, suffocating,
hanging, impaling or skinning alive, physical disfigurement, loss of function
of a limb or body organ or other wounds or illnesses produced by violence or a
thermal or chemical agent while intentionally restrained with the intent to
cause or the wanton disregard for extreme physical pain, serious injury, or
death.
      TORTURE. The intentional infliction of or subjection to extreme physical
pain or serious injury or death to a dog or cat, motivated by intent or wanton
disregard that causes, increases, or prolongs the pain or suffering of the dog
or cat, including serious physical injury or infirmity. TORTURE shall include
situations where the extreme physical pain, serious physical injury or
infirmity, or death results from restraint of the dog or cat, which may include
being:
         (a)   Locked in a cage or kennel;
         (b)   Sealed in a plastic bag or box;
         (c)   Chained or tied down to restrict motion;
         (d)   Pitched in a dumpster;
         (e)   Abandoned in a building for three days or more with no intention
of returning or having made provisions for the animal's care;
         (f)   Physically restrained with tie wraps, rope, chains, or tape;
         (g)   Intentionally injured to cause immobility so that the animal
cannot save itself from starvation, dehydration, physical impairment, serious
physical injury or infirmity, or death; or
         (h)   Manually restrained.
   (B)   A person is guilty of torture of a dog or cat when he or she without
legal justification intentionally tortures a domestic dog or cat.
   (C)   Under recommendation of a veterinarian, a tortured dog or cat may be
humanely euthanized after it is seized if it is still alive but suffering from
the intentional torture that will lead to its death.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing or injuring of a
dog or cat without intent to cause, or without wanton disregard of, increasing
or prolonging the pain, suffering, or death of the dog or cat:
      (1)   In accordance with a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   For humane purposes;
      (3)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, cosmetic
purposes, or breed-specific alterations such as cropping of ears, docking of
tails, or declawing of a cat, all done by a veterinarian;
      (4)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including, but not
limited to, training for organized dog or cat shows, or other animal shows in
which a dog or a cat, or both, participate;
      (5)   For bona fide animal research activities, using dogs or cats, of
institutions of higher education; or a business entity registered with the
United States Department of Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject
to other federal laws governing animal research;
      (6)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased dog or cat;
      (7)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
dog or cat;
      (8)   For animal or pest control; or
      (9)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
   (E)   Activities of animals engaged in hunting, field trials, dog training
other than training a dog to fight for pleasure or profit, and other activities
authorized either by a hunting license or by the Department of Fish and
Wildlife Resources shall not constitute a violation of this section.
   (F)   The acts specified in this section shall not constitute cruelty to
animals under KRS 525.125 or 525.130.
(KRS 525.135) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display, or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, animal control officer, or any person authorized by
the city may destroy or kill, or cause to be destroyed or killed, any animal
found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or appearing to be
injured, diseased, or suffering past recovery for any useful purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian or of two reputable citizens called by him or her
to view the animal in his or her presence, or shall obtain consent to the
destruction from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding, or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or
his or her agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by
certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or his or her
agent at his or her last known address, shall be deemed to be abandoned and may
be turned over to the nearest humane society or animal shelter or disposed of
as the custodian may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed veterinarian shall relieve the licensed veterinarian and
any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
   (D)   Abandonment shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and
claims by the owner to the animal.
(KRS 257.100)
§ 90.08 KEEPING OR HARBORING OF VICIOUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      HARBOR. To provide food and shelter for any animal on other than a
periodic or temporary basis.
      OWN. To have any right of property in any animal, to keep an animal, to
have an animal in care or custody, or to knowingly permit an animal to remain
on or about any premises occupied by any person who owns an animal as herein
defined.
      VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal which has previously attacked or bitten any
person or which has behaved in such a manner that the person who keeps, permits
to be kept, or harbors the said animal knows or should reasonably know that the
animal is possessed of tendencies to attack or bite persons or other animals.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, permit to be kept, or
harbor a vicious animal within the city; however, this section shall not apply
to animals under the control of a law enforcement or military agency, provided
that such animals are restrained by a leash or chain, cage, fence, or other
adequate means, from contact with the general public.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who has been attacked by a vicious animal, or anyone
for such person, or any person who believes that a vicious animal is kept,
permitted to be kept, or harbored within the city may make a complaint before
the District Court charging the owner, person keeping or permitting to be kept,
or person harboring such vicious animal with harboring a vicious animal within
the city in violation of this section. A copy of such complaint shall be served
upon the person so charged in the same manner and subject to the laws
regulating the service of summons in civil actions directing him or her to
appear for a hearing of such complaint at a time fixed therein.
      (2)   If such person fails to appear at the time fixed, or if, upon a
hearing of the parties and their witnesses, it is established to the
satisfaction of the court that the animal in question is a vicious animal and
that such animal is not or has not been restrained by a leash, chain, cage,
fence, or other adequate means, from any contact with the general public or
with persons who enter the premises of the owner, keeper, or harborer with the
actual or implied permission thereof, such animal may be killed by a police
officer or humane officer. Before any vicious animal may be killed by a police
officer or humane officer as herein provided, the owner or harborer thereof
shall be given five days from the date of the court’s adjudication within which
to permanently remove such animal from the city.
   (D)   There is hereby created the position of Animal Control Officer within
the organization of the Police Department for the city. The Animal Control
Officer or his or her agent, or any officer of the law may:
      (1)   Enter upon private premises to apprehend a stray animal or a
vicious animal; or
      (2)   Seize, impound and, following the adjudication of the Bell District
Court referred to hereinabove in division (A) above, dispose of any vicious
animal of any kind when necessary for the protection of any person or animal.
(1995 Code, § 90.07) (Ord. passed 4-13-1987) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 BARNYARD ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to keep or
maintain, or suffer or permit to be kept or maintained, within the corporate
limits of the city, any live horse, pony, mule, or equine animal; any cow or
bovine animal; any hog or swine; any fowl; or any sheep or goat owned by or
under the control of such person, firm, or corporation within 250 feet of any
dwelling house within the city.
(Ord. passed 6-10-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS
§ 90.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
(1995 Code, § 90.15)
§ 90.21 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep a dog or dogs in the city
without first obtaining a license for each dog. This section and §
90.22 shall not apply to dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within
the city for a period less than 30 days.
(1995 Code, § 90.16) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 REGISTRATION AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All dogs kept in the city shall be registered as to sex, breed, name,
and address of the owner, and name of the dog. At the time of the registration,
the owner shall obtain a license tag for the dog and shall pay a fee as
established by City Council for each dog.
   (B)   The license tag shall be valid for one year from the date of issue. A
new tag shall be obtained each year by every owner and a new fee paid.
(1995 Code, § 90.17) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 LICENSE TAG TO BE ATTACHED TO DOG.
   The license tag shall be fastened to the collar of the dog and shall be worn
continuously, and the failure to have the tag so attached shall subject the
owner or keeper thereof to the penalties provided herein.
(1995 Code, § 90.18) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog, either licensed or
unlicensed, regardless of the age of the dog, to allow the dog to be at large
and unattended or to run in any street, park, lawn, garden, schoolyard,
playground, or on any other public or private property.
(1995 Code, § 90.19) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25 NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the city which, by frequent
and habitual barking, howling, or yelping, creates unreasonably loud and
disturbing noises of a character, intensity, and duration as to disturb the
peace, quiet, and good order of one or more of the inhabitants of two or more
separate residences. Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to remain,
be lodged, or fed within any dwelling, yard, or enclosure which he or she
occupies or owns shall be considered as harboring the dog.
(1995 Code, § 90.20) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every police officer, peace officer, or other authorized official shall have
the authority to apprehend any dog running at large in violation of this
chapter and any unlicensed dog in the city, and to impound the dog or have the
dog impounded in the appropriate place.
(1995 Code, § 90.21)
§ 90.27 RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED DOG.
   The owner of any dog so impounded may reclaim the dog upon the payment of
all appropriate fees and after fulfilling any and all other requirements.
(1995 Code, § 90.22)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day
the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates §
90.03 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than
$500, imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both for each offense.
      (2)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to an offense under §
90.03 arising from the person's treatment of an equine, the court may impose
one or both of the following penalties against the person, in addition to fines
and imprisonment:
         (a)   An order that the person pay restitution for damage to the
property of others and for costs incurred by others, including reasonable
costs, as determined by agreement or by the court after a hearing, incurred in
feeding, sheltering, veterinary treatment, and incidental care of any equine
that was the subject of the offense resulting in conviction; or
         (2)   An order terminating or imposing conditions on the person's
right to possession, title, custody, or care of any equine that was the subject
of the offense resulting in conviction.
      (3)   If a person's ownership interest in an equine is terminated by a
judicial order under division (2)(b), the court may order the sale, conveyance,
or other disposition of the equine that was the subject of the offense
resulting in conviction.
(KRS 525.130(4) and (5))
   (C)   Any person who violates §
90.04 shall be guilty of a Class D felony. Each act of torture of a dog or cat
may constitute a separate offense.
(KRS 525.135)
   (D)   Any person who violates §
90.05 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500.
(KRS 436.600)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations, Tunnels, and Construction
   
91.001   Permit required
   
91.002   Applications
   
91.003   Permit fees
   
91.004   Bond required
   
91.005   Manner of excavations
   
91.006   Temporary sidewalks
   
91.007   Restoration of surface
   
91.008   Inspection and supervision of works; notice
   
91.009   Tunneling
   
91.010   Barriers and warning lights and devices, routing of traffic
   
91.011   Clearance for vital structures
   
91.012   Protection of adjoining property
   
91.013   Care and clean up of excavated material
   
91.014   Protection of watercourses
   
91.015   Breaking through pavement
   
91.016   Backfilling
   
91.017   Prompt completion of work
   
91.018   Emergency excavation work; permit
   
91.019   Noise, dust, and debris
   
91.020   Preservation of monuments
   
91.021   Authority to make inspections; enforcement
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.035   Public meeting required
   
91.036   Notice requirements; public may testify
   
91.037   Effect of testimony
   
91.038   Meeting to be held prior to construction
   
91.039   Separate meeting for each project not required
   
91.040   Exemptions from meeting requirement
Obstructions
   
91.055   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.056   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.057   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.058   Removal of ice and snow
   
91.059   Sidewalk sales
   
91.060   Trees interfering with street lights on city property
State Highway Department
   
91.075   Agreement to maintain certain streets
 
   
91.999   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS, TUNNELS, AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.001 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to tunnel under or
to make any excavation in any street, alley, or other public place in the city
without having obtained a permit as is herein required, or without complying
with the provisions of this subchapter or in violation of or variance from the
terms of any such permit.
(1995 Code, § 91.01) (Ord. 0007, passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.002 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for such permits shall be made to the Clerk-Treasurer and shall
describe the location of the intended excavation or tunnel, the size thereof,
the purpose therefor, and the person, firm, or corporation doing the actual
excavating work and the name of the person, firm, or corporation for whom or
which the work is being done.
(1995 Code, § 91.02) (Ord. 0007, passed 5-3-1982)
§ 91.003 PERMIT FEES.
   The fee for such permits shall be:
   (A)   Excavation in asphalt or concrete pavement or surface: $1 per square
foot; and
   (B)   Excavation in untreated or unimproved street or surface: $0.50 per
square foot.
(1995 Code, § 91.03) (Ord. 0007, passed 5-3-1982)
§ 91.004 BOND REQUIRED.
   No such permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant has filed with
the Clerk-Treasurer a bond in the sum of $1,500 conditioned to indemnify the
city for any loss, liability, or damage that may result or accrue from or
because of the making, existence, or manner or guarding or constructing any
such tunnel or excavation. Such bond shall have as surety a corporation
licensed to do business in the state as a surety company.
(1995 Code, § 91.04) (Ord. 0007, passed 5-3-1982)
§ 91.005 MANNER OF EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to make any such excavation or tunnel in any way
contrary to or at variance with the terms of the permit therefor.
   (B)   No injury shall be done to any pipes, cables, or conduits in the
making of such excavations or tunnels; and notice shall be given to the persons
maintaining any such pipes, cables, or conduits or to the city department or
charged with the care thereof, which are or may be endangered or affected by
the making of any such excavation or tunnel before such pipes, cables, or
conduits shall be disturbed.
   (C)   No unnecessary damage or injury shall be done to any tree or shrub or
the roots thereof.
(1995 Code, § 91.05) (Ord. 0007, passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.006 TEMPORARY SIDEWALKS.
   If any sidewalk is blocked by any such work, a temporary sidewalk shall be
constructed or provided which shall be safe for travel and convenient for
users.
(1995 Code, § 91.06) (Ord. 0007, passed 5-3-1982)
§ 91.007 RESTORATION OF SURFACE.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation making any excavation or tunnel in or
under any public street, alley, or other public place in the city shall restore
the surface to its original condition, no pavement is there. Refills shall be
properly tamped down, and any bracing in such tunnel or excavation shall be
left in the ground.
   (B)   Any opening in a paved or improved portion of a street shall be
repaired and the surface relaid by the applicant, in compliance with the
ordinances of the city and under the supervision of the appropriate city
official within a reasonable time from the date of excavation.
(1995 Code, § 91.07) (Ord. 0007, passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.008 INSPECTION AND SUPERVISION OF WORKS; NOTICE.
   The Chief of Police, Fire Chief, and/or City Building Inspector shall from
time to time inspect or cause to be inspected, all excavations and tunnels
being made in or under any public street, alley, or other public place in the
city to see to the enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter. Notice
shall be given to him or her at least ten hours before the work of refilling
any such tunnel or excavation commences, unless an emergency condition arises.
(1995 Code, § 91.08) (Ord. 0007, passed 5-3-1982)
§ 91.009 TUNNELING.
   It shall be unlawful to make any excavation in any portion of a street or
sidewalk in the city which is paved with a concrete or asphalt paving. Where
necessary, and where a proper permit has been secured, tunnel’s may be driven
or excavated under any such pavement, provided that upon completion of the work
involved the tunnel shall be backfield with compacted sand.
(1995 Code, § 91.09) (Ord. 0007, passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.010 BARRIERS AND WARNING LIGHTS AND DEVICES, ROUTING OF TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person cutting or making an excavation
in or upon any public place, to place and maintain barriers and warning devices
necessary for safety of the general public.
   (B)   Barriers, warning signs, lights, and the like, shall conform to the
requirements of the City Council. Warning lights shall be flares, electrical
markers or flashers, or other equivalent devices.
   (C)   Electrical markers or flashers shall emit light at sufficient
intensity and frequency to be visible at a reasonable distance for safety.
Reflectors or reflecting material may be used to supplement, but not replace,
light sources. The City Council may restrict the use of lanterns or open flame
devices in fire hazard areas.
   (D)   The permittee shall take appropriate measures to assure that during
the performance of the excavation work, traffic conditions as near normal as
possible shall be maintained at all times so as to minimize inconvenience to
the occupants of the adjoining property and to the general public.
   (E)   When traffic conditions permit, the Mayor may by written approval
permit the closing of streets and alleys to all traffic for a period of time
prescribed by him or her, if in his or her opinion it is necessary. Such
written approval may require that the permittee give notification to various
public agencies and to the general public. In such cases, such written approval
shall not be valid until such notice is given.
   (F)   Warning signs shall be placed far enough in advance of the
construction operation to alert traffic within a public street and cones or
other approved devices shall be placed to channel traffic, in accordance with
the instructions of the Superintendent of Public Works.
(1995 Code, § 91.10) (Ord. 0007, passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.011 CLEARANCE FOR VITAL STRUCTURES.
   The excavation work shall be performed and conducted so as not to interfere
with access to fire hydrants, fire stations, fire escapes, water gates,
underground vaults, valve housing structures, and all other vital equipment as
designated by the City Building Inspector and Fire Chief.
(1995 Code, § 91.11) (Ord. 0007, passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.012 PROTECTION OF ADJOINING PROPERTY.
   The permittee shall at all times and at his or her own expense preserve and
protect from injury any adjoining property by providing proper foundations and
taking other measures suitable for the purpose.
   (A)   Where in the protection of such property it is necessary to enter upon
private property for the purpose of taking appropriate protecting measures, the
permittee shall obtain consent from the owner of such private property for such
purpose and if he or she cannot obtain such consent, the Superintendent of
Public Works may authorize him or her to enter the private premises solely for
the purpose of making the property safe.
   (B)   The permittee shall at his or her own expense shore up and protect all
buildings, walls, fences, or other property likely to be damaged during the
progress of the excavation work and shall be responsible for all damage to
public or private property or highways resulting from its failure to properly
protect and carry out said work. Whenever it may be necessary for the permittee
to trench through any lawn area, said area shall be reseeded or the sod shall
be carefully cut and rolled and replaced after ditches have been backfilled (as
required in this subchapter).
   (C)   All construction and maintenance work shall be done in a manner
calculated to leave the lawn area clean of earth and debris and in a condition
as nearly as possible to that which existed before such work began. The
permittee shall not remove, even temporarily, any trees or shrubs which exist
in parking strip areas without first obtaining the consent of the appropriate
city department or city official having supervision of such property.
(1995 Code, § 91.12) (Ord. 0007, passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.013 CARE AND CLEAN UP OF EXCAVATED MATERIAL.
   (A)   Care of excavated material.
      (1)   All material excavated from trenches and piled adjacent to the
trench or in any street shall be piled and maintained in such manner as not to
endanger those working in the trench, pedestrians, or users of the streets and
so that as little inconvenience a possible is caused to those using streets and
adjoining property. Where the confines of the area being excavated are too
narrow to permit the piling of excavated material beside the trench, such as
might be the case in a narrow alley, the Superintendent of Public Works shall
have the authority to require that the permittee haul the excavate material to
a storage site and then rehaul it to the trench site at the time of
backfilling. It shall be the permittee’s responsibility to secure the necessary
arrangements for all required storage and disposal sites.
      (2)   All material excavated shall be laid compactly along the side of
the trench and kept trimmed so as to cause as little inconvenience as
reasonably possible to vehicular and pedestrian traffic, or as specified by the
Superintendent of Public Works. Whenever necessary, in order to expedite the
flow of traffic or to abate the dirt or dust nuisance, toe boards or bins may
be required by the Superintendent of Public Works to prevent the spreading of
dirt into traffic lanes.
   (B)   Clean up. As the excavation work progresses, all streets shall be
thoroughly cleaned of all rubbish, excess earth, rock, and other debris
resulting from such work. All clean up operations at the location of such
excavation shall be accomplished at the expense of the permittee and shall be
completed to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Public Works. In any
event immediately after completion of said work, the permittee shall, at his or
her own expense, clean up and remove all refuse and unused materials of any
kind resulting from said work, and upon failure to do so within 24 hours after
having been notified to do so by the Superintendent of Public Works, said work
may be done by the Superintendent of Public Works and the cost thereof charged
to the permittee, and the permittee shall also be liable for the cost thereof
under the surety bond provided hereunder.
(1995 Code, § 91.13) (Ord. 0007, passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.014 PROTECTION OF WATERCOURSES.
   (A)   The permittee shall maintain all gutters free and unobstructed for the
full depth of the adjacent curb and for at least one foot in width from the
face of such curb at the gutter line. Whenever a gutter crosses an intersecting
street, an adequate waterway shall be provided and at all times maintained.
   (B)   The permittee shall make provisions to take care of all surplus water,
muck, slickings, or other run-off pumped from excavations or resulting from
sluicing or other operations and shall be responsible for any damage resulting
from its said sluicing or other operations.
(1995 Code, § 91.14) (Ord. 0007, passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.015 BREAKING THROUGH PAVEMENT.
   Heavy duty pavement breakers may be prohibited by the city when the use
endangers existing substructures or other property.
(1995 Code, § 91.15) (Ord. 0007, passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.016 BACKFILLING.
   Fine material, free from lumps and stone, selected from the spoil shall be
thoroughly compacted around and under the substructure to the upper level of
such substructure. Above the upper level of the substructure, backfill material
shall be placed to the subgrade of the pavement in lists consistent with the
type of soil involved and the degree of consolidation specified by the City
Council. Broken pavement, large stones, roots, and other debris shall not be
used in the backfill.
(1995 Code, § 91.16) (Ord. 0007, passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.017 PROMPT COMPLETION OF WORK.
   After an excavation is commenced, the permittee shall prosecute with
diligence and expedition all excavation work covered by the excavation permit
and shall promptly complete such work and restore the street to its original
condition, or as near as may be, so as not to obstruct the public place or
travel thereon more than is reasonably necessary.
(1995 Code, § 91.17) (Ord. 0007, passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.018 EMERGENCY EXCAVATION WORK; PERMIT.
   (A)   When traffic conditions, the safety or convenience of the traveling
public, or the public interest require that the excavation work be performed,
emergency work by the Fire Chief, Chief of Police, or Mayor shall have full
power to order, at the time the permit is granted, that a crew and adequate
facilities be employed by the permittee 24 hours a day to the end that such
excavation work may be completed as soon as possible.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prevent the making of
such excavations as may be necessary for the preservation of life or property
or for the location of trouble in conduit or pipe, or for making repairs,
provided that the person making such excavation shall apply to the Clerk-
Treasurer for such a permit on the first working day after such work is
commenced.
(1995 Code, § 91.18) (Ord. 0007, passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.019 NOISE, DUST, AND DEBRIS.
 
   Each permittee shall conduct and carry out excavation work in such manner as
to avoid unnecessary inconvenience and annoyance to the general public and
occupants of neighboring property. The permittee shall take appropriate
measures to reduce to the fullest extent practicable in the performance of the
excavation work, noise, dust, and unsightly debris and between the hours of 10:
00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. shall not use, except in case in emergency as herein
otherwise provided, any tool, appliance, or equipment producing noise of
sufficient volume to disturb the sleep or repose of occupants of the
neighboring property.
(1995 Code, § 91.19) (Ord. 0007, passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.020 PRESERVATION OF MONUMENTS.
   Any monument set for the purpose of locating or preserving the lines of any
street or property subdivision, of a precise survey reference point or a
permanent survey benchmark within the city, shall not be removed or disturbed
or caused to be removed or disturbed without first obtaining permission in
writing from the City Council so to do. Permission to remove or disturb such
monuments, reference points or benchmarks shall only be granted upon condition
that the person applying for such permission shall pay all expenses incident to
the proper replacement of this monument by the city.
(1995 Code, § 91.20) (Ord. 0007, passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.021 AUTHORITY TO MAKE INSPECTIONS; ENFORCEMENT.
   The city’s representative shall make such inspections as are reasonably
necessary in the enforcement of this subchapter and shall have the authority to
promulgate and cause to be enforced such rules and regulations as may be
reasonably necessary to enforce and carry out the intent of this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 91.21) (Ord. 0007, passed 5-3-1982)
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.035 PUBLIC MEETING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state-derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street, or bridge, it shall provide an opportunity to the public to
provide input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS
61.823(2) to (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax
monies for road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 91.036 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS; PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state-derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a specific
item on the public meeting agenda and shall allow any person to speak with
regard to any proposed project, any project which he or she feels should be
built or done which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of
projects, and any other matter related to road or bridge projects.
(KRS 174.100(1))
§ 91.037 EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting, but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100(2))
§ 91.038 MEETING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state-derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting as provided in this
subchapter has been held.
(KRS 174.100(3))
§ 91.039 SEPARATE MEETING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting for
each project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
meeting, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(4))
§ 91.040 EXEMPTIONS FROM MEETING REQUIREMENT.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting for
each project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
meeting, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(4))
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.055 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
(1995 Code, § 91.50) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.056 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public
way within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting
any fence or building to remain thereon.
   (B)   Each day that any fence or building is permitted to remain upon the
public way shall constitute a separate offense.
(1995 Code, § 91.51) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.057 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
(1995 Code, § 91.52) Penalty, see §
91.999
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see
Chapter 94
§ 91.058 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his or her premises free and clear of snow and ice to the
extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove
therefrom all snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather
conditions, accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily
not exceed 12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and
ice may have accumulated.
(1995 Code, § 91.53) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.059 SIDEWALK SALES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to place any wares, goods, or article of
merchandise upon or over the public sidewalks within the city for the purpose
of display, sale, or storage.
   (B)   However, it being customary to designate certain days as trading days
within the city, the provisions of this section shall not apply to such days
which the Mayor shall proclaim from time to time as trading days.
(Ord. passed 7-6-1961) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.060 TREES INTERFERING WITH STREET LIGHTS ON CITY PROPERTY.
   The electric utility franchise has authority and responsibility to cut all
trees on city property where they interfere with street lights.
(Motion passed 3-6-1967)
STATE HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT
§ 91.075 AGREEMENT TO MAINTAIN CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   Whenever the Commissioner of Highways of the Commonwealth of Kentucky,
by authority of KRS 177.043 to 177.047, designates any streets or portions
thereof, including viaducts and bridges, as connecting links of state or
federal maintained highways, or necessary feeder streets thereto, and thereby
undertakes the future maintenance, repair, construction, or reconstruction of
such streets, bridges or viaducts in the manner as provided in the aforesaid
statutes, the Mayor is hereby expressly authorized, instructed, and directed to
enter into any and all contracts and agreements with the said Department of
Highways necessary to carry out the purposes and provisions of said statutes.
   (B)   For and in consideration of the construction, reconstruction, and
maintenance of a system of highways within the city and the regulation of
traffic thereon, the city hereby agrees without further necessary documentation
or approval to permit the Department of Highways, pursuant to its policies and
procedures which it from time to time may prescribe, to install and maintain
traffic-control devices such as, but not limited to, vehicle detectors, signs,
islands, and pavement markings within the rights-of-way of any public road or
street within the city in order to regulate the flow of traffic to and from the
roads of the city to and on the roads constructed, reconstructed, and
maintained by the Department, and the city further agrees to pay all costs of
the purchase of power for actuating and lighting installations within the
corporate limits of the city and to maintain such at its sole expense.
(Ord. passed 7-2-1951; Motion passed 4-20-1961)
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $500.
(1995 Code, § 91.99)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES; WEEDS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.03   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
92.04   Abatement procedure
   
92.05   Nuisance created by others
   
92.06   Suspension of license
Weeds, Grass, and Debris
   
92.20   Cutting and removal of grass, weeds, and other vegetation
   
92.21   Duty of owner, lessee, or occupant
   
92.22   When city to do work; lien
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Private nuisances, see KRS 411.500 through 411.570   
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE COLLECTOR. A person who collects and restores motor vehicles.
(KRS 65.8838(1)(b))
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS. Any portion or parts of any motor-driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which could cause serious or life-threatening
injury or death at any time.
(KRS 65.8838(1)(e))
   INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Unable to move under its own power due to defective
or missing parts, and which has remained in that condition for a period of not
less than ten consecutive days.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any style or type of motor- driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   ORDINARY PUBLIC VIEW. A sight line within normal visual range by a person on
a public street or sidewalk adjacent to real property.
(KRS 65.8838(1)(h))
   PARTS CAR. An automobile that is not intended to be operated along streets
and roads, but is used to provide parts for the restoration of other
automobiles.
(KRS 65.8838(1)(j))
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any act, thing, occupation, condition, or use of property
which shall continue for a length of time as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure, or endanger the comfort, health,
repose, or safety of the public;
      (2)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct, or tend to
obstruct or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
stream, ditch, or drainage; or
      (3)   Essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tend to depreciate the value of property of others.
   SCRAP METAL. Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum, or
any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE. In a dangerous condition; having defective or missing
parts; or in a condition generally as to be unfit for further use as a
conveyance.
§ 92.02 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of Kentucky as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided
in this chapter or in accordance with any other provision of law.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control
or management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance to
develop thereon.
   (B)   The following conditions are declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street. Any tree, stack, or
other object standing in such a condition that it will, if the condition is
allowed to continue, endanger the life, limb, or property of, or cause hurt,
damage, or injury to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways
adjacent thereto, by the falling thereof or of parts thereof;
      (2)   Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage, or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare, or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful
enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger
that it will catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents,
or insects, or blow rubbish into any street, sidewalk, or property of another;
      (3)   Storage of explosives. The storage of explosive material which
creates a safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity;
      (4)   Weeds and grass. The excessive growth of weeds, grass, or other
vegetation. Unless otherwise provided, EXCESSIVE shall mean growth to a height
of 12 inches or more;
      (5)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered, or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation, or vault situated upon private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place;
      (6)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets, sidewalks, and drainage.
The growing and maintenance of trees or shrubbery which in any way interfere
with the use, construction, or maintenance of streets or sidewalks, cause
injury to streets or sidewalks, or constitute an obstruction to drainage;
      (7)   Keeping of animals. The failure to keep an animal’s pen, yard, lot,
or other enclosure in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive
odors; and
      (8)   Junk; scrap metal; motor vehicles. The storage of motor vehicles in
an inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for further use, automobile
parts, or scrap metal within the city limits except on premises authorized by
the city for those purposes.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Except as provided in KRS 65.8838(4), it shall be unlawful for the
owner, occupant, or person having control or management of any land within the
city to permit a public nuisance, health hazard, or source of filth to develop
thereon through the accumulation of:
      (1)   Junked or wrecked automobiles, vehicles, machines, or other similar
scrap or salvage materials, excluding inoperative farm equipment;
      (2)   One or more mobile or manufactured homes as defined in KRS 227.550
that are junked, wrecked, or nonoperative and which are not inhabited;
      (3)   Rubbish; or
      (4)   The excessive growth of weeds or grass.
(KRS 65.8838(3))
   (B)   Whenever a nuisance situation is discovered, the authorized city
official shall give five days’ written notice to remedy the nuisance situation.
The notice shall be mailed to the last known address of the owner of property,
as it appears on the current tax assessment roll. Upon the failure of the owner
of the property to comply, the authorized city official is authorized to send
employees upon the property to remedy the situation.
   (C)   (1)   The city shall have a lien against the property for the
reasonable value of labor and materials used in remedying the nuisance
situation. The affidavit of the authorized city official shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the amount of the lien and the regularity of the proceedings
pursuant to KRS 65.8838, and shall be recorded in the office of the County
Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording
and shall bear interest at the rate established by the city thereafter until
paid. The lien created shall take precedence over all other liens, except
state, county, school board, and city taxes, except as provided in KRS 65.8838
(9), and may be enforced by judicial proceeding.
(KRS 65.8838(8))
      (2)   In addition to this remedy or any other remedy authorized by law,
the owner of a property upon which a lien has been attached pursuant to this
section shall be personally liable for the amount of the lien, including all
interest, civil penalties, and other charges, and the city may bring a civil
action against the owner and shall have the same remedies as provided for the
recovery of a debt owed.
(KRS 65.8838(10))
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant, or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests, or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care ought to have become aware of.
§ 92.06 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Whenever it is shown that a nuisance is associated with or caused by
the conduct of a business or activity licensed by the city and that the
existence of the nuisance presents an immediate threat to the public health,
safety, or welfare, the City Council may suspend the license of the person or
persons conducting the business or activity.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall cause a notice of the suspension to be served
personally upon the licensee, or upon any responsible agent of the licensee, at
the premises where the licensed business or activity is being conducted. The
notice shall clearly inform the licensee of the reason for the suspension, and
the conditions that must be met for the suspension to be removed.
   (C)   Upon application of the licensee, and upon a showing that the nuisance
has been satisfactorily abated and that any other reasonable conditions set
forth in the notice have been met, the City Council may remove the suspension.
WEEDS, GRASS, AND DEBRIS
§ 92.20 CUTTING AND REMOVAL OF GRASS, WEEDS, AND OTHER VEGETATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee, or occupant, or any agent,
servant, representative, or employee of any such owner, lessee, or occupant
having control of any lot or land or any part thereof in the city, to permit or
maintain on any such lot or land, or along or on the sidewalk, street, alley
adjacent to the same between the property line and the curb, or middle of the
alley of for ten feet outside the property line if there be no curb, any growth
of weeds, grass, or other rank vegetation or other unsightly and unhealthy
undergrowth to a greater height than 12 inches on the average, or any
accumulation of dead weeds, grass, brush, or rubbish.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful for any such person or persons to cause,
suffer, or allow poison ivy, ragweed, or other poisonous plants, or plants
detrimental to health to grow on any such lot or land in such manner that any
part of such ivy, ragweed, or other poisonous, harmful weed shall extend,
overhang, or border any public place or allow seed, pollen, or other poisonous
particles or emanations therefrom to be carried through the air into any public
place.
(1995 Code, § 92.15) (Ord. 7901, passed 8-6-1979) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21 DUTY OF OWNER, LESSEE, OR OCCUPANT.
   It shall be the duty of any owner, lessee, or occupant of any lot or land to
cut and remove or cause to be cut and removed all such weeds, grass, or other
rank, poisonous, or harmful vegetation or other unsightly and unhealthy
undergrowth or rubbish as often to comply with the provision of §
92.20.
(1995 Code, § 92.16) (Ord. 7901, passed 8-6-1979)
§ 92.22 WHEN CITY TO DO WORK; LIEN.
   If the provisions of this chapter are not complied with, the Chief of Police
shall serve written notices upon the owner, lessee, or occupant or any person
having the care or control of any such lot or land to comply with the
provisions of this chapter. If the person upon whom the notices or notice is
given fails, neglects, or refuses to cut and remove or cause to be cut and
removed such weeds, grass, or other vegetation or unsightly and unhealthy
undergrowth or rubbish within ten days after receipt of such notice, or if no
person can be found in the city who either is or claims to be the owner of such
lot or land or who either represents or claims to represent such owner, the
Foreperson of the Street Department shall cause such weeds, grass, or other
vegetation, or unsightly and unhealthy undergrowth or rubbish to be cut and
removed, and the actual cost of such cutting and removing, plus 5% or
inspection and other additional costs in connection therewith, shall be
certified by the Street Foreman to the Clerk-Treasurer and shall thereupon
become and be a lien upon the property of which such weeds, grass, or
vegetation or unsightly and unhealthy undergrowth or rubbish were located and
shall be added to and become and form part of the taxes next to be assessed and
levied upon such lot or land and shall bear interest at the same rate as taxes
and shall be collected and enforced by the same officer and in the same manner
as taxes.
(1995 Code, § 92.17) (Ord. 7901, passed 8-6-1979)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall neglect to cut and remove weeds, grass, or other
vegetation or unsightly and unhealthy undergrowth or rubbish as directed in
this chapter, or who shall fail, neglect, or refuse to comply with the
provisions of any notice herein provided, or shall violate any of the
provisions of this chapter or shall resist or obstruct any city official, in
the cutting and removing of weeds, grass, or other vegetation or unsightly and
unhealthy undergrowth or rubbish shall be guilty of a violation and shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than $1 nor more than
$100, and each day on which such violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(1995 Code, § 92.99) (Ord. 7901, passed 8-6-1979)
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
93.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
93.03   Consumer fireworks; restrictions on sale
   
93.04   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
93.05   Exempted sales and uses
   
93.06   Destruction of fireworks
Fire Prevention
   
93.20   Blasting permit
   
93.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
   
93.22   Dumping of combustible materials prohibited
   
93.23   Fire Prevention Code adopted by reference
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, FIREWORKS means any composition or
device for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by
combustion, deflagration, or detonation, and which meets the definition of
“consumer fireworks” as defined in division (B) of this section or “display”
fireworks as defined in division (D) of this section and as set forth in the
U.S. Department of Transportation’s (DOT) hazardous materials regulations.
FIREWORKS does not include:
      (1)   Exception number one. Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to those regulations, are not
considered to be FIREWORKS and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times.
      (2)   Exception number two. Model rockets and model rocket motors
designed, sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models
are not considered to be FIREWORKS.
      (3)   Exception number three. Propelling or expelling charges consisting
of a mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and saltpeter are not considered as being
designed for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, CONSUMER FIREWORKS means fireworks
that are suitable for use by the public, designed primarily to produce visible
effects by combustion, and that comply with the construction, chemical
composition, and labeling regulations of the U.S. Consumer Product Safety
Commission. The types, sizes, and amount of pyrotechnic contents of these
devices are limited as enumerated in this section. Some small devices designed
to produce audible effects are included, such as whistling devices, ground
devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive composition, and aerial
devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive composition. CONSUMER
FIREWORKS are further defined by the Consumer Product Safety Commission in
CPSC, 16 C.F.R. parts 1500 and 1507, are classified as Division 1.4G Class C
explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation and include the following:
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. These devices consist of
a metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition.
Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is produced.
Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed five
grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which contain no
magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are not
included in this category, in accordance with DOT regulations.
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
75 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of colored sparks,
and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This device may be
provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or
plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard
handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than one tube
is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200
grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a
distance of at least one-half inch.
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to 50
grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain. When more than one cone is mounted on a common base, the
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is produced. May be
spike, base, or hand-held. When more than one tube is mounted on a common base,
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
         (e)   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or
string. A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel may contain more than
200 grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the wheel revolves,
producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling effect.
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is produced by
the rapidly spinning device.
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is
ignited to make the device function.
         (h)   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces
white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wooden
stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst
of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight.
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability.
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached which, upon ignition,
lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible effect is
produced at the height of flight.
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to 20
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten stars (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several-second intervals.
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, “stars,” components producing reports containing
up to 130 milligrams of explosive composition per report, or other devices are
propelled into the air. The term MINE refers to a device with no internal
components containing a bursting charge, and the term SHELL refers to a device
that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in the air. A mine or
shell device may contain more than one tube provided the tubes fire in sequence
upon ignition of one external fuse. The term CAKE refers to a dense-packed
collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical composition including lift
charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed 200 grams. The maximum
quantity of lift charge in any one tube of a mine or shell device shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting charge in any
component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in
the component. The tube remains on the ground.
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE), or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed one and three-quarter inches. In addition, the maximum quantity of lift
charge in any shell shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of
break or bursting charge in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight
of chemical composition in the shell. The total chemical composition of all the
shells in a kit, including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams. The user
lowers a shell into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fuse
extending out of the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then
reloaded with another shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be
capable of firing twice the number of shells in the kit without failure of the
tube. Each package of multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning
label requirements of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper- wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced.
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50
milligrams.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed below are classified as NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS
and are not classified as common fireworks by the U.S. Department of
Transportation, and their transportation, storage, retail sale, possession,
sale, and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times:
      (1)   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake- like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as
the pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate;
      (2)   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect;
      (3)   Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed 100 grams of composition per item. Devices
containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams of
composition per item; and
      (4)   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include:
         (a)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than 16 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report;
         (b)   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report;
         (c)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes, producing a small report;
         (d)   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match, a small report or a shower of sparks is produced;
         (e)   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced; and
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams, may also be used to produce a small
report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, DISPLAY FIREWORKS means pyrotechnic
devices or large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or audible
effects by combustion, deflagration, or detonation. This term includes, but is
not limited to, firecrackers containing more than two grains (130 milligrams)
of explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than 40 grams of
pyrotechnic composition, and other display pieces which exceed the limits for
classification as consumer fireworks. DISPLAY FIREWORKS are defined by the
Consumer Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. parts 1500 and 1507, and
are classified as Class B explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   Legality of items is as follows:
      (1)   Items described in division (B) above are legal for retail sale,
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
      (2)   Items described in division (D) are not legal for retail sale but
are legal under permits granted pursuant to this chapter for the purposes
specified in this chapter for public displays and may be sold at wholesale as
provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) are legal for retail sale, provided
all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are met.
(KRS 227.708)
§ 93.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, copartnership, or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, or keep with intent to sell, possess, use, or explode
any display fireworks, except as follows:
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department or other authorized city official may
grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the city, fair
associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of
individuals. Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator to
be approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be
of a character, and so located, discharged, or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or endanger
any person. COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks display. The
competent display operator shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives (ATF) License and have participated as an assistant in firing at
least five public displays. A COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR is also an employee
possessor. A permit under this division (A) shall be issued only to a competent
display operator holding an ATF license. At least one competent display
operator shall be on site during display set-up and firing. This competent
display operator shall maintain a copy of the permit application, as signed by
the local authority having jurisdiction as identified in this section, on site
and at all times the display is in place, and shall be presented on demand of
the State Fire Marshal or local Fire Chief. All public displays that require
issuance of a permit shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 1123 – Code for Fireworks Display
(adopted edition). Permits shall be filed with the State Fire Marshal at least
15 days in advance of the date of the display. After the privilege is granted,
sales, possession, use, and distribution of fireworks for the display shall be
lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted under this division shall be
transferable. For the purposes of this division (A), PUBLIC DISPLAY OF
FIREWORKS shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or pyrotechnic materials
before a proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors. Any person remaining
within the display area shall be identified as licensed by the ATF, or an
employee thereof, or be an assistant in training to become a competent display
operator. All persons remaining within the display area shall be at least 18
years of age. The Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings, and
Construction with recommendation from the State Fire Marshal shall promulgate
administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A to administer the
provisions of this division (A). The regulations shall address the process by
which permits are issued and any other procedures that are reasonably necessary
to effectuate this division (A);
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives if the sale is to the person holding a display permit as
outlined in division (A) of this section. The permit holder shall present the
permit along with other verifiable identification at the time of sale;
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives;
   (D)   The sale and use in emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation, and highway use;
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads;
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports;
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations;
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency; and
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-partnership,
nonprofit, or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling at
retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing, or using consumer fireworks as
defined in KRS 227.702 and as permitted pursuant to KRS 227.715.
(KRS 227.710) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 CONSUMER FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS ON SALE.
   Except as provided in §
93.02, the consumer fireworks described in §
93.01(B) may be offered for sale, sold at retail, or kept with the intent to
sell, only if the following requirements are met.
   (A)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, nonprofit, or business intending to
sell consumer fireworks described in §
93.01(B) shall register annually with the State Fire Marshal, who may assess a
fee of no more than $25 for each site at which fireworks shall be sold. The
registration requirement under this division (A) shall not apply to permanent
business establishments which are open year round and in which the sale of
fireworks is ancillary to the primary course of business. Each location shall
be required to charge sales tax at the current rate imposed on retailers in KRS
139.200.
   (B)   Permanent business establishments open year-round and in which the
sale of consumer fireworks is ancillary to the primary course of business shall
only be permitted to sell those consumer fireworks described in §
93.01(B), or shall meet the criteria for “seasonal retailer” described in
division (C) of this section.
   (C)   SEASONAL RETAILERS shall be defined as any person, firm, co-
partnership, nonprofit, or corporation intending to sell “consumer fireworks”
between June 10 and July 7, or December 26 and January 4 of each year or both,
and shall include permanent businesses, temporary businesses, stores, stands,
or tents. A seasonal retailer shall register with the State Fire Marshal, who
may assess a fee of no more than $250 for each site at which fireworks shall be
sold. Each location shall be required to charge sales tax at the current rate
imposed on retailers in KRS 139.200.
   (D)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, nonprofit, or corporation intending
to sell consumer fireworks, as defined in §
93.01(B) as the primary source of business, that is not a seasonal retailer as
defined in division (C) of this section, shall register with the State Fire
Marshal, who may assess a fee of no more than $500 for each site at which
fireworks will be sold. Each location shall be required to charge sales tax at
the current rate imposed on retailers in KRS 139.200.
   (E)   The annual registration required by this section shall be received by
the State Fire Marshal at least 15 days prior to offering fireworks for sale at
the site for which the registration is intended. Evidence that a sales and use
tax permit has been obtained from the Department of Revenue shall be presented
to the State Fire Marshal as a condition of registration. If the registration
is received less than 15 days prior to offering fireworks for sale at the site
for which registration is intended, an additional assessment of $100 shall be
added to the initial fee.
   (F)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall have its
registration certificate displayed in a conspicuous location at the site.
   (G)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall comply with
all applicable provisions of the International Building Code, with Kentucky
Amendments (adopted edition), and NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection
Association) – Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, Storage, and Retail
Sales of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles (adopted edition).
   (H)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or sell any consumer
fireworks listed in §
93.01(B) to any person under 18 years of age.
   (I)   No person under 18 years of age may be employed by a fireworks
distribution facility or manufacturing facility. No person under 18 years of
age shall sell consumer fireworks at a consumer fireworks retail sales facility
registered under this section unless the individual is supervised by a parent
or guardian.
   (J)   The State Fire Marshal may revoke the registration of any site which
is in violation of a requirement of this section, or any other requirement
provided pursuant to this chapter. If the violation renders any property
especially susceptible to fire loss, and there is present such hazard to human
life or limb that the public safety imperatively requires emergency action, the
State Fire Marshal may take that action, as provided in KRS 227.330(6).
   (K)   A person lawfully possessing consumer fireworks, as defined in §
93.01(B) may use those items if:
      (1)   He or she is at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   Fireworks are not ignited within 200 feet of any structure,
vehicle, or any other person; and
      (3)   Use of the fireworks does not place him or her in violation of any
lawfully enacted local ordinance.
(KRS 227.715) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
93.02 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than $1,000,000. However, the appropriate city official or the
State Fire Marshal may require a larger amount if in his or her judgment the
situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of all damages which may be
caused thereby either to a person or to property by reason of the permitted
display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his or her agents,
employees, or subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry; gold
star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate; toy snakes
which contain no mercury; smoke novelties and party novelties, which contain
less than twenty-five hundredths grain of explosive mixture; shells or
cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms; blank cartridges for a show or
theater, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports, or for
use by military organizations; or the sale of any kind of fireworks, provided
the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730)
§ 93.06 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the State Fire Marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter. After a period of 60 days,
the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of 60 days, the seized fireworks may be offered for
sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor, or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or “Display”
designation shall require the notification of the United States Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives. The State Fire Marshal shall
provide the owner or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of
any fireworks seized within five business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the State Fire
Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s
intent. The State Fire Marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the State Fire Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for
three consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks within
ten days of the date of the last publication, the State Fire Marshal may
proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the fireworks
within ten days of the date of the last publication, a hearing as set out in
division (C)(1) of this section shall be held.
   (D)   Nothing in KRS 227.700 to 227.750 shall restrict a local government
from enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks within its
jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the authorized city
official. The authorized city official, before granting the permit, may require
the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify the city and all other persons
against injury or damages which might result from the proposed blasting.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material
of a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any
other portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall
be provided for these hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22 DUMPING OF COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any person, firm, or
corporation to dump or pour or cause to enter into any of the public storm
sewers, or sanitary sewers of the city, or to pour or dump, or cause to be
poured or dumped upon any of the streets, sidewalks, or alleys of the city, any
oil or gasoline, or any of their products; or any combustible material or
matter of whatever nature or character.
(1995 Code, § 93.22) (Ord. passed 1-6-1947) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.23 FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Fire Prevention Code, as promulgated in 815 KAR 10:040 by the
Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings, and Construction on the
advise and recommendation of the State Fire Marshal, is hereby adopted by
reference as if fully set forth herein. Copies of the Code book are available
through the Department of Housing, Buildings, and Construction, 1047 U.S. 127
South, Frankfort, Kentucky 40601.
(1995 Code, § 93.23) (Ord. passed 5-13-1991)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not more than $500.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.02 or
93.03, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both.
(KRS 227.990(4))
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
94.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
94.03   Hauling loose material
   
94.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
94.05   Litter on private property
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley, or other
public place mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or foreign matter of any
kind.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt, or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place shall haul it or cause it to be hauled in
vehicles provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any of the contents from falling or being thrown, blown, or deposited
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place. Any materials which
fall from or which are thrown, blown, or deposited from any vehicle upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place shall be removed immediately by
the person in charge of the vehicle.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks, or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day the violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 95: DISASTER AND EMERGENCY SERVICES
Section
   
95.01   Short title
   
95.02   Intent and purpose
   
95.03   Definitions
   
95.04   Office of disaster and emergency services established; organizations
and appointments
   
95.05   Emergency powers and duties
   
95.06   Civil defense and disaster basic plan
   
95.07   Liability
   
95.08   Violation of regulations
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the City/
County Disaster and Emergency Services Chapter.
(Res. passed 8-10-1987)
§ 95.02 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to establish an office
that will ensure the complete and efficient utilization of all of the city’s/
county’s facilities to combat disaster resulting from enemy actions or other
disasters or emergencies as defined in §
95.03.
   (B)   The County Office of Disaster and Emergency Services will be the
coordinating agency for all activity in connection with civil defense; it will
be the instrument through which the County Judge Executive and the Mayor may
exercise the authority and discharge the responsibilities vested in them.
   (C)   This chapter will not relieve any city or county department of the
moral responsibilities or authority given to them by order of the City Council
or fiscal court, nor will it adversely affect the work of any volunteer agency
organized for relief in disasters or emergencies.
(Res. passed 8-10-1987)
§ 95.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ATTACK. A direct or indirect assault against the county, the city’s/county’s
government, their environs, or on the nation, by the forces of a hostile nation
or the agents thereof, including assault by bombing, radiological, chemical, or
biological warfare or sabotage.
   COORDINATOR. The Coordinator of the County Office of Disaster and Emergency
Services, appointed as prescribed in this chapter.
   DES FORCES. The employees, equipment, and facilities of all city/county
departments, boards, institutions, and commissions; and, in addition, it shall
include all volunteer personnel, equipment, and facilities contributed by, or
obtained from, volunteer or agencies.
   DES VOLUNTEER. Any person fully registered, identified, and appointed by the
Coordinator of the Office of Disaster and Emergency Services of the county and
assigned to participate in the DES activity.
   DIRECTOR. The County Judge Executive or his or her designated alternate.
   DISASTER. Includes, but is not limited to, actual or threatened enemy
attack, sabotage, extraordinary fire, flood, storms, tornadoes, epidemics,
explosions, or other impending or actual calamity endangering or threatening to
endanger health, life, or property, or the constituted government.
   DISASTER AND EMERGENCY SERVICES or DES. In its broad meaning it is to carry
out the basic government functions of maintaining the public peace, health, and
safety during an emergency or disaster. This shall include plans and
preparations for protection from, and relief, recover, and rehabilitation from,
the effects of an attack on the county by the forces of an enemy nation or the
agents thereof, and it shall also include such activity in connection with
disaster, as defined in this section. It shall not, however, include any
activity that is the primary responsibility of the military forces of the
United States of America.
   REGULATIONS. Plans, programs, and other emergency procedures deemed
essential to disaster and emergency services.
   VOLUNTEER. Contributing a service, equipment, or a facility or facilities to
the DES organization without reimbursement.
(Res. passed 8-10-1987)
§ 95.04 OFFICE OF DISASTER AND EMERGENCY SERVICES ESTABLISHED; ORGANIZATIONS
AND APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   The County Judge Executive is hereby authorized and directed to create
an organization for civil defense utilizing to the fullest extent the existing
agencies within the county. This office shall be known as the Office of
Disaster and Emergency Services or DES. The County Judge Elective, as the
executive head of the government in the county, shall be the Director of the
Civil Defense Forces of the county and shall be responsible for its
organization, administration, and operations. The Mayor of the city shall be
directly responsible for and in complete control of the activities of the city
concerning disaster and emergency services unless otherwise instructed by the
County Judge Executive, who has the authority over the entire county, to
include all cites, during a disaster or emergency as defined in this chapter.
   (B)   The organization shall consist of the following:
      (1)   An Office of Disaster and Emergency Services within the executive
department of the county government and under the direction of the County Judge
Executive. There shall be an executive head of the Office of Disaster and
Emergency Services, who shall be known as the Coordinator of the Office of
Disaster and Emergency Services, and such assistants and other employees as are
deemed necessary for the proper functioning of the organization. On some
occasions, the Coordinator may be referred to as the Director of DES, but this
shall be by title only, the County Judge Executive is the executive head of the
Disaster and Emergency Services.
      (2)   The employees, equipment, and facilities of all cities and county
departments, boards, institutions, and commissions, will participate in the DES
activity.
      (3)   Volunteer persons and agencies offering services to, and accepted
by, the city and county.
   (C)   The DES Director (County Judge Executive) will appoint a Coordinator
of the County Office of Disaster and Emergency Services who shall be a person
well versed and trained in planning operations including activities which
involve many different agencies which will operate to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare in the event of danger from enemy action or
disaster as defined in this chapter.
   (D)   The DES Coordinator shall designate and appoint a Deputy Coordinator
to assume the emergency duties of the Coordinator in the event of his or her
absence or inability to act; the intent being that there will always and at all
times be a Disaster and Emergency Services Coordinator in charge of the county.
(Res. passed 8-10-1987)
§ 95.05 EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The County Judge Executive.
      (1)   The DES Director may exercise the emergency power and authority
necessary to fulfill his or her general powers and duties as defined in the
fiscal court order. The judgement of the DES Director shall be the sole
criteria necessary to invoke emergency powers provided in the fiscal court
order, and any other appropriate authorities. The fiscal court may convene to
perform their legislative and administrative powers as the situation demands,
and shall receive reports relative to any civil defense related activities.
      (2)   During any period when disaster threatens or when the city of
Pineville/city of Middlesboro/county of Bell has been struck by disaster,
within the definition of this chapter, the County Judge Executive may
promulgate such regulations as he or she deems necessary to protect life and
property and preserve critical resources. Such regulations may include, but
shall not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   Regulations prohibited or restricting the movement of vehicles
in order to facilitate the work of DES forces, or to facilitate the mass
movement of person from critical areas within or without the county;
         (b)   Regulations pertaining to the movement of persons from areas
deemed to be hazardous or vulnerable to disaster;
         (c)   Such other regulations necessary to preserve public peace,
health, and safety; and
         (d)   Regulations promulgated in accordance with the authority above
will be given widespread circulation by proclamations published and uttered by
newspaper and radio. These regulations will have the force of the law set forth
in this chapter when duly filed with the County Court Clerk and violations will
be subject to the penalties provided herein.
      (3)   The DES Director shall order DES forces to the aid of other
communities when required in accordance with the statutes of the state and he
or she may request the state, or a political subdivision of the state, to send
said to the county, in case of disaster when conditions in the city/county are
beyond the control of the local DES forces.
      (4)   DES Director may obtain vital supplies, equipment, and other
properties found lacking and needed for the protection of health, life, and
property of the people, and bind the county for the fair value thereof.
      (5)   DES Director may require emergency services of any city of county
officer or employee. If regular city/county forces are determined inadequate,
the Director may require the services of such other personnel as he or she can
obtain that are available, including citizen volunteers. All duly authorized
persons rendering emergency services shall be entitled to the privileges and
immunities as are provided by state law, the county resolution for regular
county employees, and other registered and identified civil defense and
disaster workers and, upon demand, may receive appropriate compensation for
their emergency employment.
   (B)   The Coordinator of the Office of Disaster and Emergency Services shall
be responsible to the County Judge Executive in regard to all phases of the
civil defense related activities. Under the supervision of the Director, he or
she shall be responsible for the planning, coordination, and operation of the
civil defense activity in the county. Under the supervision of the Director, he
or she shall maintain liaison with the state and federal authorities and the
authorities of other nearby political subdivisions as to ensure the most
effective operation of the civil defense plan. His or her duties all include,
but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Controlling any necessary record- keeping for disaster and
emergency services funds and property which may be made available from the
federal, state, and county governments;
      (2)   Submitting annual budget requirements to the state and federal
governments and to the fiscal court;
      (3)   Signing such documents, as are necessary in the administration of
the county disaster preparedness program to include project applications and
billing for purchases under project applications;
      (4)   Coordinating the recruitment of volunteer personnel and agencies to
augment the personnel and facilities or the county for disaster and emergency
services purposes;
      (5)   Developing and coordinating plans for the immediate use of all of
the facilities, equipment, manpower, and other resources of the county for the
purpose of minimizing or preventing damage to persons or property; and
protecting and restoring the usefulness of governmental services and public
utilities necessary for the public health, safety, and welfare;
      (6)   Negotiating and concluding agreements with owners or persons in
control of buildings or other property for the use of such buildings or other
property for the civil defense purpose and designating suitable buildings as
public shelters;
      (7)   Through public informational programs, educating the civilian
population as to actions necessary and required for the protection of their
persons and property in case of enemy attack, or disaster, as defined in §
95.03, either impending or present;
      (8)   Conducting public practice alerts to ensure the efficient operation
of the civil defense forces and to familiarize residents with civil defense
regulations, procedures, and operations; and
      (9)   Assuming such authority and conducting such activities as the
Director may direct which may be necessary to promote and execute the basic
emergency operations plan (EOP) for the county.
(Res. passed 8-10-1987)
§ 95.06 CIVIL DEFENSE AND DISASTER BASIC PLAN.
   (A)   A comprehensive civil defense and disaster basic operations plan shall
be adopted and maintained by resolution of fiscal court upon the
recommendations of the County Judge Executive. In the preparation of the plan
and as it pertains to the county organization, it is the intent that the
services, equipment, facilities, and personnel of all existing departments and
agencies shall be utilized to the fullest extent. When approved, it shall be
the duty of all county and municipal departments and agencies in the county to
perform the functions assigned by the plan and to maintain their portion of the
plan in a current state of readiness at all times. The basic operations plan
shall be considered supplementally to this chapter and have the effect of law
whenever a disaster, as defined in the chapter, has been proclaimed. The basic
operations plan is many times referred to as the Emergency Operations Plan
(EOP).
   (B)   The Director shall prescribe in the basic plan those positions within
the disaster and emergency services organization in addition to his or her own,
for which lines of succession are necessary. In each instance, the responsible
person will designate and keep on file with the Director of DES Coordinator a
current list of three persons as successors to his or her position. The list
will be in order of succession and will be as nearly as possible, designated
persons, with the best capabilities of accomplishing or carrying out all
assigned duties and functions.
   (C)   Each service chief and department head assigned responsibility in the
basic emergency operations plan shall be responsible for carrying out all
duties and functions assigned therein. Duties will include the organization and
training of assigned city/county employees and volunteers. Each chief shall
formulate the operational plan for these services which, when approved, shall
be an annex to and a part of the basic operations plan.
   (D)   Amendments to the basic plan be submitted to the County Judge
Executive. If approved, the Director will submit the amendments to the fiscal
court with his or her recommendations for its approval. Such amendments shall
take effect 30 days from the date of approval unless action is taken by the
fiscal court disapproved the Director’s submission. In the event an amendment
is pending at the time that a disaster is proclaimed under the provisions of
this chapter, the amendment will be considered approved immediately and will
remain effective unless specifically revoked by the court.
   (E)   When a required competency or skill for a disaster function is not
available within the county or city government, the Director is authorized to
seek assistance from persons outside the government. The assignment of duties,
when of a supervisory nature, shall also grant authority for the persons so
assigned to carry out such duties prior to, during, and after the occurrence of
a disaster. Such services from persons outside of the government may be
accepted by the county or city on a volunteer basis. Such citizens shall be
enrolled as disaster and emergency services volunteers in cooperation with the
heads of the city/county departments affected.
   (F)   Some of the duties ascribed to the Director in this section will
ordinarily be handled as a matter of routine by the DES Coordinator, but the
responsibility and authority stem from and remain with the Director, who is the
County Judge Executive of the county.
(Res. passed 8-10-1987)
§ 95.07 LIABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter is an exercise by the county of its governmental
functions for the protection of the public peace, health, and safety, and
neither the city/county nor agents and representatives of said city/county or
any individual, receiver, firm, partnership, corporation, association, or
trustee or any of the agents thereof, in good faith carrying out, complying
with or attempting to comply with any order, rule, or regulation promulgated
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, shall be liable for any damage
sustained to persons or property as the result of said activity.
   (B)   Any person owning or controlling real estate or other premises who
voluntarily and without compensation grants the county the right to inspect,
designate, and use the whole or any part or parts of such real estate or
premises for the purpose of sheltering persons during an actual, impending, or
practice enemy attack or disaster shall not be civilly liable for the death of
or injury to any persons on or about such real estate or premises under such
licenses, privilege, or other permission, or for loss of, or damage to, the
property of such person.
(Res. passed 8-10-1987)
§ 95.08 VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any persons or person to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter or of the regulations or plans issued pursuant to
the authority contained herein, or to willfully obstruct, hinder, or delay any
member of the disaster and emergency services organization as herein defined in
the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter or any regulation or plan
issued thereunder.
(Res. passed 8-10-1987) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this chapter, or
any rule or regulation promulgated thereunder, upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished by a fine, and costs of prosecution, or imprisonment in the county
jail for a period of not more than 90 days, or both such fine and imprisonment,
at the direction of the court.
(Res. passed 8-10-1987)
CHAPTER 96: FAIR HOUSING
Section
General Provisions
   
96.01   Policy
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Unlawful practice
   
96.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
96.05   Discrimination in the financing of housing
   
96.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
96.07   Exemption
Administration and Enforcement
   
96.20   Administration
   
96.21   Education and conciliation
   
96.22   Enforcement
   
96.23   Investigations; subpoena; giving of evidence
   
96.24   Enforcement by private persons
   
96.25   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
96.26   City to assist victims
 
   
96.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.01 POLICY
   It is the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional limitations,
for fair housing throughout the city.
(1995 Code, § 96.01) (Ord. 7905, passed 9-11-1979; Ord. passed 10-14-1993)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
96.03 through
96.06.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families,
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure, of portion thereof.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers, and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for
a consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant.
(1995 Code, § 96.02) (Ord. 7905, passed 9-11-1979; Ord. passed 10-14-1993)
§ 96.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section and §
96.07, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
set forth in this section shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) of this section; and
   (B)   Nothing in §
96.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner: provided, that
such private individual owner does not own more than three single-family houses
at any one time; provided further, that in the case of the sale of any such
single-family house by a private individual owner not residing in such house at
the time of such sale or who was not the most recent resident of the house
prior to the sale, the exemption granted by this division shall apply only with
respect to one such sale within any 24-month period; provided further, that
such bona fide private individual owner does not own any interest in, nor is
there owned or reserved on his or her behalf, under any express or voluntary
agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds from the
sale or rental of, more than three such single-family houses at any one time;
provided further, that the sale or rental of any such single-family house shall
be expected from the application of this title only if such house is sold or
rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sale or rental facilities
or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent, or salesman,
or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker, agent,
salesman, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting, or mailing, after notice of
any advertisement or written notice in violation of §
96.04(C), but nothing in this proviso shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence in providing
sales or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for
occupancy by or occupied by five or more families.
(1995 Code, § 96.03) (Ord. passed 10-14-1993) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
96.03 and except as exempted by §§
96.03(B) and
96.07, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable to
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, familial status, or handicapped status;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, familial status, or handicapped status;
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of
a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based
on race, color, religion, sex, national origin, familial status, or handicapped
status, or an intention to make any such precedence, limitation, or
discrimination; or
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, familial status, or handicapped status that any dwelling is
not available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available.
(1995 Code, § 96.04) (Ord. passed 10-14-1993) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 DISCRIMINATION IN THE FINANCING OF HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company, or other corporation, association, firm, or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the
purpose of purchasing, construction, improving, repairing, or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him or her in the fixing of the amount,
interest rate, duration, or other terms or conditions of such loan or other
person or of any person associated with him or her in connection with such loan
or other financial assistance for the purpose of such loan or other financial
assistance, or of the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants, or
occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such loan or other
financial assistance is to be made or given; provided, that nothing contained
in this section shall impair the scope or effectiveness of the exception
contained in §
96.03(B).
(1995 Code, § 96.05) (Ord. passed 10-14-1993) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers
organization, or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, familial status, or
handicapped status.
(1995 Code, § 96.06) (Ord. passed 10-14-1993) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.07 EXEMPTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of a
dwelling which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, or
national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not
in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes provided lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to
its members or from giving preference to its members.
(1995 Code, § 96.07) (Ord. passed 10-14-1993)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 96.20 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for administering this Act shall be
in the Chief Executive Officer of the city.
   (B)   The Chief Executive Officer may delegate any of these functions,
duties, and powers to employees of the city or to boards of such employees,
including functions, duties, and powers with respect to investigation,
conciliating, hearing, determining, ordering, certifying, reporting, or
otherwise acting as to any work, business, or matter under this chapter. The
Chief Executive Officer shall by rule prescribe such rights of appeal from the
decisions of his or her hearing examiners to other hearing examiners or to
other officers in the city, to boards of officers or to himself or herself, as
shall be appropriate and in accordance with law.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies shall administer their programs
and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner
affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with
the Chief Executive Officer to further such purposes.
(1995 Code, § 96.20) (Ord. passed 10-14-1993)
§ 96.21 EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION.
   Immediately after the enactment of this chapter, the Chief Executive Officer
shall commence such educational and conciliatory activities as will further the
purposes of this chapter and his or her suggested means of implementing it, and
shall endeavor with their advice to work out programs of voluntary compliance
and of enforcement.
(1995 Code, § 96.21) (Ord. passed 10-14-1993)
§ 96.22 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice or who believes that he or she will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice about to occur (hereafter “person aggrieved”)
may file a complaint with the Chief Executive Office. Complaints shall be in
writing and shall contain such information and be in such form as the Chief
Executive Officer requires. Upon receipt of such a complaint, the Chief
Executive Officer shall furnish a copy of the same to the person or persons who
allegedly committed or are about to commit the alleged discriminatory housing
practice. Within 30 days after receiving a complaint, or within 30 days after
the expiration of any period of reference under division (C) below, the Chief
Executive Officer aggrieved to resolve the complaints shall proceed to try to
eliminate or correct the alleged discriminatory housing practice by informal
methods of conference, conciliation, and persuasion. Nothing said or done in
the course of such informal endeavors may be made public or used as evidence in
a subsequent proceeding under this chapter without the written consent of the
persons concerned.
   (B)   A complaint under division (A) of this section shall be filed within
180 days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred. Complaints
shall be in writing and shall state the facts upon which the allegations of
discriminatory housing are based. Complaints may be reasonably and fairly
amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer to the complaint against
him or her and with the leave of the Chief Executive Officer, which shall be
granted whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may amend his or her
answer at any time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   (C)   If within 30 days after a complaint is filed with the Chief Executive
Officer, the Chief Executive Officer has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance with this chapter, the person aggrieved may, within 30 days
thereafter, file a complaint with the Secretary of the Department of Housing
and Urban Development. The Chief Executive Officer will assist in this filing.
   (D)   If the Chief Executive Officer has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance within 30 days of the complaint, the person aggrieved may, within 30
days hereafter, commence a civil action in any appropriate court against the
respondent named in the complaint to enforce the rights granted or protected by
this chapter, insofar as such rights relate to the subject of the complaint. If
the court finds that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is about
to occur, the court may enjoin respondent from engaging in such practice or
order such affirmative action as may be appropriate.
   (E)   In any proceeding brought pursuant to this section, the burden of
proof shall be on the complainant.
   (F)   Whenever an action filed by an individual shall come to trial, the
Chief Executive Officer shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain
voluntary compliance.
(1995 Code, § 96.22) (Ord. passed 10-14-1993) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.23 INVESTIGATIONS; SUBPOENA; GIVING OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   In conducting an investigation, the Chief Executive Officer shall have
access at all reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals,
and other evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record, and
copy such materials and take and report the testimony or statements of such
person as are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation;
provided, however, that the Chief Executive Officer first complies with the
provisions of the Fourth Amendment relating to unreasonable searches and
seizures. The Chief Executive Officer may issue subpoenas to compel his or her
access to the production of such materials, or the appearance of such persons,
and may issue interrogatories to a respondent, to the same extent and subject
to the same limitations as would apply if the subpoenas or interrogatories were
issued or served in aid of a civil action in the United States district court
for the district in which the investigation is taking place. The Chief
Executive Officer may administer oaths.
   (B)   Upon written application to the Chief Executive Officer, a respondent
shall be entitled to the insurance of a reasonable number of subpoenas by and
in the name of the Chief Executive Officer to the same extent and subject to
the same limitations as subpoenas issued by the Chief Executive Officer himself
or herself. Subpoenas issued at the request of a respondent shall show on their
face the name and address of such respondent and shall state that they were
issued at his or her request.
   (C)   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the Chief Executive Officer shall be
entitled to the same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings
in United States district courts. Fees payable to a witness summoned by a
subpoena issued at the request of a respondent shall state they were issued at
his or her request.
   (D)   Within five days after service of a subpoena upon any person, such
person may petition the Chief Executive Officer to revoke or modify the
subpoena. The Chief Executive Officer shall grant the petition if he or she
finds that the subpoena requires appearance or attendance at an unreasonable
time or place, that it requires a production of evidence which does not relate
to any matter under investigation, that it does not describe with sufficient
particularity the evidence to be produced, that compliance would be unduly on
onerous, or for other good reason.
   (E)   In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the Chief
Executive Officer or other person at whose request it was issued may petition
for its enforcement in the municipal or state court for the district in which
the person to whom the subpoena was addressed resides, was served, or transacts
business.
   (F)   The City Attorney shall conduct all litigation in which the Chief
Executive Officer participates as a part or as amicus pursuant to this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 96.23) (Ord. passed 10-14-1993) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.24 ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   (A)   The rights granted by §§
96.03 through
96.06 may be enforced by civil actions in state or local courts of general
jurisdiction. A civil action shall be commenced within 180 days after the
alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred; provided, however, that the
court shall continue such civil case brought pursuant to this section or §
96.22(D) from time to time before bringing it to trial if the court believes
that the conciliation efforts of the Chief Executive Officer are likely to
result in satisfactory settlement of the discriminatory housing practice
complained or in the complaint made to the Chief Executive Officer and which
practice forms the basis for the action in court; and provided, however, that
any sale, encumbrance, or rental consummated prior to the issuance of any court
order issued under the authority of this chapter, and involving a bona fide
purchaser, encumbrancer, or tenant without actual notice of the existence of
the filing of a complaint or civil action under the provisions of this chapter
shall not be affected.
   (B)   The court may grant as relief, as it seems appropriate, any permanent
or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order, or other order, and may
award to the plaintiff actual damages and no more than $2,000 punitive damages,
together with court costs and reasonable attorney fees in the case of a
prevailing plaintiff, provided that the plaintiff in the opinion of the court
is not financially able to assume the attorney’s fees.
(1995 Code, § 96.24) (Ord. passed 10-14-1993)
§ 96.25 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
96.03 through
96.06. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil action.
(1995 Code, § 96.25) (Ord. passed 10-14-1993)
§ 96.26 CITY TO ASSIST VICTIMS.
   (A)   Within available resources the city will assist all persons who feel
they have been discriminated against because of race, color, religion, sex,
sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, or familial
status to seek equity under federal and state laws by filing a complaint with
the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Office of Fair Housing
and Equal Opportunity, Compliance Division.
   (B)   The city shall publicize this section and through this publicity shall
encourage owners of real estate, developers, and builders to become aware of
their respective responsibilities and rights under the Federal Fair Housing Law
and amendments and any applicable state or local laws or ordinances.
   (C)   Said program will at a minimum include:
      (1)   Printing and publicizing of this policy and other applicable fair
housing information through local media and community contacts;
      (2)   Distribution of posters, flyers, and any other means that will
bring attention of those affected, the knowledge of their respective
responsibilities and rights concerning equal opportunity in housing; and
      (3)   Prepare an analysis of impediments to fair housing choice and
actions to mitigate such impediments.
(Res. passed 10-10-2016)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat
of force willfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with, or attempts to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with:
      (1)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, familial status, or handicapped status, and because he or she
is or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or
contracting or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or
occupation, or facility relating to the business of selling or renting
dwellings;
      (2)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to
intimidate such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
         (a)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, national origin, familial status, or handicapped status in any
of the activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in division
(A)(1) above; or
         (b)   Affording another person or class of person opportunity or
protection so to participate.
      (3)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, or national origin, in any of the activities, services,
organizations, or facilities described in division (A)(1) above, or
participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of
the opportunity to so participate; shall be fined not more than $1,000 or
imprisoned not more than one year, or both; and if bodily injury results, shall
be fined not more then $10,000, or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both;
and if death results, shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or
for life.
   (B)   Any employee of the Chief Executive Officer who shall make public any
information in violation of §
96.22(A) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than one year.
   (C)   Any person who willfully fails or neglects to attend and testify or to
answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents, or other evidence
in violation of §
96.23, if in his or her power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful
order of the Chief Executive Officer shall be fined no more than $1,000 or
imprisoned not more than one year, or both. Any person who, with intent thereby
to mislead the Chief Executive Officer, shall make or cause to be made any
false entry or statement of fact in any report, account, record, or other
document submitted to the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to his or her
subpoena or other order, or shall willfully neglect or fail to make or cause to
be made full, true, and correct entries in such reports, accounts, records, or
other documents, or shall willfully mutilate, alter, or by any other means
falsify any documentary evidence, shall be fined not more than $1,000 or
imprisoned nor more than one year, or both.
(1995 Code, § 96.99) (Ord. passed 10-14-1993)
CHAPTER 97: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
97.01   Park rules
Common Creek Reservoir
   
97.15   Operation of gasoline outboard motors and swimming
 
   
97.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 97.01 PARK RULES.
   (A)   The following rules shall apply to city park areas.
      (1)   No glass bottles or containers shall be permitted in parks.
      (2)   A tot lot shall be open only to children, age ten years and under,
except for a parent or supervisor.
      (3)   An apparatus area shall be open to youth, age 11 years and over.
      (4)   The city shall not be responsible for any lost personal articles.
      (5)   The city shall not be responsible for any injuries, children shall
play at their own risk.
      (6)   No activities, special or otherwise, shall be permitted after 9:00
p.m.
      (7)   Parks hours shall be open from 9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m.
      (8)   No animals or pets are permitted inside a park except when
supervised by a community organization which must be approved by the city.
      (9)   The shelter house may be reserved upon request.
      (10)   Power vehicles are not permitted inside a park.
      (11)   Bicycle parking shall be in designed areas only.
      (12)   Disorderly conduct, profanity, or intoxication is prohibited.
      (13)   Admittance can be refused to a person for cause.
      (14)   City ordinances shall prevail.
      (15)   Defacing property is prohibited.
      (16)   No fires shall be permitted except in the grills provided, using
only charcoal.
      (17)   The natural atmosphere of the park must be preserved, persons
defacing or removing any form of plant life will be prosecuted.
      (18)   Picnic areas shall be cleaned before leaving, and trash
receptacles shall be used.
      (19)   Children under age six must be accompanied by parent or
supervisor, a supervisor may be a brother or sister 12 years of age or older.
   (B)   These rules are subject to revision, modification, and enlargement as
shall hereafter be deemed advisable by the City Park Board, with approval of
the City Council.
(1995 Code, § 98.01) (Motion passed 4-2-1973; Ord. passed 4-12-2010) Penalty,
see §
97.99
CANNON CREEK RESERVOIR
§ 97.15 OPERATION OF GASOLINE OUTBOARD MOTORS AND SWIMMING.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 96.355, no person shall operate a gasoline outboard
motor in the waters of the Cannon Creek Reservoir located in the county between
the cities of Pineville and Middlesboro.
   (B)   No person shall swim or bathe or allow any domesticated animal to
enter the waters of the Cannon Creek Reservoir.
(1995 Code, § 98.15) (Ord. passed 6-22-1981) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not
more than $500.
(1995 Code, § 98.99)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   ADVERTISING
      
112.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
      
113.   YARD SALES
      
114.   ALCOHOL BEVERAGE CONTROL
      
115.   MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
      116.   DRUG OR ALCOHOL TREATMENT FACILITIES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Occupational tax payment required
   
110.03   Apportionment
   
110.04   Employers to withhold
   
110.05   Provisions relating to real property rental
   
110.06   Returns required
   
110.07   Extensions
   
110.08   Refunds
   
110.09   Federal audit provisions
   
110.10   Administrative provisions
   
110.11   Information to remain confidential
   
110.12   Use of occupational license tax
   
110.13   Itinerant salesperson
   
110.14   Delinquent taxes
Business License Fee
   
110.25   Business license required
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms and their derivatives shall
have the following meanings unless the context clearly indicates that a
different meaning is intended.
   BUSINESS. Any enterprise, activity, trade, occupation, profession, or
undertaking of any nature conducted for gain or profit. BUSINESS shall not
include a board of trade, chambers of commerce, trade associations, or unions,
or other associations performing services usually performed by trade
associations, or unions as recognized by the Internal Revenue Service. BUSINESS
shall not include funds, foundations, corporations, or associations organized
and operated for the exclusive and sole purpose of religious, charitable,
scientific, literary, educational, civic, or fraternal purposes, where no part
of the earnings, incomes, or receipts of such unit, group, or association,
inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or other person.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. Each separate corporation, limited liability company,
business development corporation, partnership, limited partnership, registered
limited liability partnership, sole proprietorship, association, joint stock
company, receivership, trust, professional service organization, or other legal
entity through which business is conducted.
   CITY. The City of Pineville, Kentucky.
   COMPENSATION. Wages, salaries, commissions, or any other form of
remuneration paid or payable by an employer for services performed by an
employee, which are required to be reported for federal income tax purposes and
adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any retirement,
profit sharing, or deferred compensation plan, which are deferred for federal
income tax purposes under a salary reduction agreement or similar arrangement,
including, but not limited to, salary reduction arrangements under §§ 401(a),
401(k), 402(e), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 414(h), or 457 of the Internal Revenue
Code; and
      (2)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any welfare
benefit, fringe benefit, or other benefit plan made by salary reduction or
other payment method which permits employees to elect to reduce federal taxable
compensation under the Internal Revenue Code, including, but not limited to, §§
125 and 132 of the Internal Revenue Code.
   CONCLUSION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The date that the adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service to net income as reported on the business entity’s
federal income tax return become final and unappealable.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who renders services to another person or any business
entity for compensation, including an officer of a corporation and any officer,
employee, or elected official of the United States, a state, or any political
subdivision of a state, or any agency of instrumentality of any one or more of
the above. A person classified as an independent contractor under the Internal
Revenue Code shall not be considered an EMPLOYEE.
   EMPLOYER. As defined in § 3401(d) of the Internal Revenue Code.
   FINAL DETERMINATION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The revenue agent’s report or
other documents reflecting the final and unappealable adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service.
   FISCAL YEAR. As defined in § 7701(a)(24) of the Internal Revenue Code.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code in effect on December 31,
of the year in which the tax is due, exclusive of any amendments made
subsequent to that date, other than amendments that extend provisions in effect
on December 31, of the year in which the tax is due, that would otherwise
terminate.
   NET PROFIT. Gross income as defined in § 61 of the Internal Revenue Code
minus all the deductions from gross income allowed by Chapter 1 of the Internal
Revenue Code, and adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction for state tax or local
tax which is computed, in whole or in part, by reference to gross or net income
and which is paid or accrued to any state of the United States, local taxing
authority in a state, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, or any foreign country
or political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction that directly or
indirectly is allocable to income which is either exempt from taxation or
otherwise not taxed;
      (3)   Include any amount claimed as a net operating loss carryback or
carryforward allowed under § 172 of the Internal Revenue Code;
      (4)   Include any amount of income and expenses passed through separately
as required by the Internal Revenue Code to an owner of a business entity that
is a pass-through entity for federal tax purposes; and
      (5)   Exclude any amount of income that is exempt from state taxation by
the Kentucky Constitution, or the Constitution and statutory laws of the United
States.
   PERSON. Every natural person, whether a resident or non-resident of the
city. Whenever the word PERSON is used in a clause prescribing and imposing a
penalty in the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as applied to a
partnership or other form of unincorporated enterprise, shall mean the partners
or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, shall mean the officers and
directors thereof.
   RETURN or REPORT. Any properly completed and, if required, signed form,
statement, certification, declaration, or any other document permitted or
required to be submitted or filed with the city.
   SALES REVENUE. Receipts from the sale, lease, or rental of goods, services,
or property.
   TAX DISTRICT. Any county or city with the authority to levy net profits or
occupational license taxes.
   TAXABLE NET PROFIT.
      (1)   In case of a business entity having payroll or sales revenue only
within the city means net profit as defined in this section.
      (2)   In case of a business entity having payroll or sales revenue both
within and without the city means net profit as defined in this section, and as
apportioned under §
110.03.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year or fiscal year ending during the calendar
year, upon the basis of which net income is computed.
(Ord. passed 11-20-2018)
§ 110.02 OCCUPATIONAL TAX PAYMENT REQUIRED.
   Occupational license taxes consist of both an annual net profit tax on gross
income and occupational taxes on wages to be withheld from employees and
remitted quarterly or monthly.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) and (E) of this section, every
person or business entity engaged in any business for profit and any person or
business entity that is required to make a filing with the Internal Revenue
Service or the Kentucky Revenue Cabinet shall be required to file and pay to
the city occupational license taxes for the privilege of engaging in such
activities within the city. The occupational license tax shall be measured by
1.5% of:
      (1)   All wages and compensation paid or payable in the city for work
done or services performed or rendered in the city by every resident and non-
resident who is an employee, also known as occupational withholding taxes on
wages, to be remitted quarterly or monthly and due by the last day of the month
following the close of the period for which payment is being remitted; and
      (2)   The net profit from business conducted in the city by a resident or
non-resident business entity to be remitted annually and due by April 15,
following the taxable year, unless granted an extension per section §
110.07 of this chapter.
   (B)   All partnerships, S corporations, and all other entities where income
is passed through to the owners are subject to this chapter. The occupational
license taxes imposed in this chapter are assessed against income before it is
passed through these entities to the owners.
   (C)   If any business entity dissolves, ceases to operate, or withdraws from
the city during any taxable year, or if any business entity in any manner
surrenders or loses its charter during any taxable year, the dissolution,
cessation of business, withdrawal, or loss or surrender of charter shall not
defeat the filing of returns and the assessment and collection of any
occupational license tax for the period of that taxable year during which the
business entity had business activity in the city.
   (D)   If a business entity makes, or is required to make, a federal income
tax return, the occupational license tax shall be computed for the purposes of
this chapter on the basis of the same calendar or fiscal year required by the
federal government and shall employ the same methods of accounting required for
federal income tax purposes.
   (E)   The occupational license tax imposed in this section shall not apply
to the following persons or business entities:
      (1)   Any bank, trust company, combined bank and trust company, combined
trust, banking, and title business organized and doing business in this state,
any savings and loan association whether state or federally chartered;
      (2)   Any compensation received by members of the Kentucky National Guard
for active duty training, unit training assemblies, and annual field training;
      (3)   Any compensation received by precinct workers for election training
or work at election booths in state, city, and local primary, regular, or
special elections;
      (4)   Public service corporations that pay an ad valorem tax on property
valued and assessed by the Kentucky Department of Revenue pursuant to the
provisions of KRS 136.120. Licensees whose businesses are predominantly non-
public service who are also engaged in public service activity are required to
pay a license fee on their net profit derived from the non-public service
activities apportioned to the city;
      (5)   Persons or business entities that have been issued a license under
KRS Chapter 243 to engage in manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic
beverages. Persons engaged in the business of manufacturing or trafficking in
alcoholic beverages are required to file a return, but may exclude the portion
of their net profits derived from the manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic
beverages;
      (6)   Insurance companies incorporated under the laws of and doing
business in the commonwealth except as provided in KRS 91A.080;
      (7)   Any profits, earnings, distributions of an investment fund which
would qualify under KRS 154.20-250 to 154.20-284 to the extent any profits,
earnings, or distributions would not be taxable to an individual investor;
      (8)   Domestic servants employed in private homes; and
      (9)   Any person or entity organizing or participating in any recognized
community event, including, but not limited to, the Kentucky Mountain Laurel
Festival.
(Ord. passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 APPORTIONMENT.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, net profit shall
be apportioned as follows:
      (1)   For business entities with both payroll and sales revenue in more
than one tax district, by multiplying the net profit by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the payroll factor, described in division (B) of this
section, plus the sales factor, described in division (C) of this section, and
the denominator of which is two; and
      (2)   For business entities with sales revenue in more than one tax
district, by multiplying the net profit by the sales factor as set forth in
division (C) of this section.
   (B)   The payroll factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
amount paid or payable in the city during the tax period by the business entity
for compensation, and the denominator of which is the total compensation paid
or payable by the business entity everywhere during the tax period.
Compensation is paid or payable in the city based on the time the individual’s
service is performed within the city.
   (C)   The sales factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
sales revenue of the business entity in the city during the tax period, and the
denominator of which is the total sales revenue of the business entity
everywhere during the tax period.
      (1)   The sales, lease, or rental of tangible personal property is in the
city if:
         (a)   The property is delivered or shipped to a purchaser, other than
the United States government, or to the designee of the purchaser within the
city regardless of the f.o.b. point or other conditions of the sale; or
         (b)   The property is shipped from an office, store, warehouse,
factory, or other place of storage in the city and the purchaser is the United
States government.
      (2)   Sales revenues, other than revenue from the sale, lease, or rental
of tangible personal property or the lease or rental of real property, are
apportioned to the city based upon a fraction, the numerator of which is the
time spent in performing such income-producing activity within the city and the
denominator of which is the total time spent performing that income-producing
activity.
      (3)   Sales revenue from the sale, lease, or rental of real property is
allocated to the tax district where the property is located.
   (D)   If the apportionment provisions of this section do not fairly
represent the extent of the business entity’s activity in the city, the
business entity may petition the city, or the city may require, in respect to
all or any part of the business entity’s business activity, if reasonable:
      (1)   Separate accounting;
      (2)   The exclusion of any one or more of the factors;
      (3)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors which will fairly
represent the business entity’s business activity in the city; or
      (4)   The employment of any other method to effectuate an equitable
allocation and apportionment of net profit.
   (E)   When compensation is paid or payable for work done or services
performed or rendered by an employee, both within and without the city, the
license tax shall be measured by that part of the compensation paid or payable
as a result of work done or service performed or rendered within the city. The
license tax shall be computed by obtaining the percentage which the
compensation for work performed or services rendered within the city bears to
the total wages and compensation paid or payable. In order for the city to
verify the accuracy of a taxpayers reported percentages under this division
(E), the taxpayer shall maintain adequate records.
(Ord. passed 11-20-2018)
§ 110.04 EMPLOYERS TO WITHHOLD.
   (A)   Every employer making payment of compensation to an employee shall
deduct and withhold upon the payment of the compensation any tax imposed
against the compensation by the city. Amounts withheld shall be paid to the
city in accordance with §§
110.02 and
110.03.
   (B)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall, for the quarter ending after January 1 and for each quarter ending
thereafter, on or before the end of the month following the close of each
quarter, make a return and report to the city, and pay to the city, the tax
required to be withheld under this section unless the employer is permitted or
required to report within a reasonable time after some other period as
determined by the city. Payments can be remitted on a monthly frequency by
request with payment due by the last day of the month following the close of
the month for which payment is being remitted.
   (C)   Every employer who fails to withhold or pay to the city any sums
required by this chapter to be withheld and paid shall be personally and
individually liable to the city for any sum or sums withheld or required to be
withheld in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (D)   The city shall have a lien upon all the property of any employer who
fails to withhold or pay over to the city sums required to be withheld under
this section. If the employer withholds but fails to pay the amounts withheld
to the city, the lien shall commence as of the date the amounts withheld were
required to be paid to the city. If the employer fails to withhold, the lien
shall commence at the time the liability of the employer is assessed by the
city.
   (E)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall annually on or before January 31 of each year complete and file on a form
furnished or approved by the city a reconciliation of the occupational license
tax withheld where compensation is paid or payable to employees. Either copies
of federal forms W-2 and W-3, transmittal of wage and tax statements, or a
detailed employee listing with the required equivalent information, as
determined by the city, shall be submitted.
   (F)   Every employer shall furnish each employee a statement on or before
January 31 of each year showing the amount of compensation and occupational
license tax deducted by the employer from the compensation paid to the employee
for payment to the city during the preceding calendar year.
   (G)   An employer shall be liable for the payment of the tax required to be
deducted and withheld under this section.
   (H)   The president, vice president, secretary, treasurer, or any other
person holding an equivalent corporate office of any business entity subject to
this chapter shall be personally and individually liable, both jointly and
severally, for any tax required to be withheld from compensation paid to one or
more employees of any business entity, and neither the corporate dissolution or
withdrawal of the business entity from the city, nor the cessation of holding
any corporate office, shall discharge that liability of any person; provided
that the personal and individual liability shall apply to each or every person
holding the corporate office at the time the tax becomes or became obligated.
No person shall be personally and individually liable under this division (H)
who had no authority to collect, truthfully account for, or pay over any tax
imposed by this chapter at the time that the taxes imposed by this chapter
becomes or became due.
   (I)   (1)   Every employee receiving compensation in the city subject to the
tax imposed under §
110.02 shall be personally liable for the tax notwithstanding the provisions of
divisions (G) and (H) of this section. In all cases where the employer does not
withhold the tax levied under this section from the employee, such employee or
employees shall be responsible for filing with the city each quarter in the
same manner as if they were the employer. If an employer fails to or is not
required to withhold, report, or pay the license fee it shall become the duty
of the employee to file with the city. The only employer that is not required
to withhold, report, and pay the occupational license tax is the federal
government.
      (2)   The payment required to be made by an employee, can be made
quarterly, for the periods ending March 31, June 30, September 30, and December
31 of each year, or at any time the employee wishes to make an estimated
payment for the year in which wages are earned. All occupational taxes on wages
must be remitted by January 31 for the preceding calendar year, together with a
copy of the employees W-2 form.
      (3)   Employers not required to withhold, report, or pay the license fee
must annually during the month of January of each year, make a return to the
Occupational Tax Administrator, in which is set forth the name and Social
Security number of each employee of the employer during the preceding calendar
year, giving the amount of salaries, wages, commissions, or other compensation
earned during such preceding year by each such employee. This list shall
include all current full-time employees, part-time employees, temporary
employees, and terminated employees whether it be voluntary or involuntary.
(Ord. passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 PROVISIONS RELATING TO REAL PROPERTY RENTAL.
   The income received from the operation of all real property rental by
persons or business entities is subject to the license fee and tax imposed by
this chapter, with the following exception: natural persons who offer no more
than five residential units for rent. A UNIT shall be considered one
residential dwelling, regardless of its configuration. In other words, a unit
could be a rental home, or a single dwelling within a multi-dwelling structure
such as an apartment complex or duplex. If this applies, then no license fee
shall be imposed.
(Ord. passed 11-20-2018)
§ 110.06 RETURNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All business entity net profit returns for the preceding taxable year
shall be made by April 15 of each year, except returns made on the basis of a
fiscal year, which shall be made by the fifteenth day of the fourth month
following the close of the fiscal year. Blank forms for returns shall be
supplied by the city or standardized forms available through the Kentucky
Secretary of State’s office may be remitted.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of its federal income tax
return and all supporting statements and schedules at the time of filing its
net profit return with the city. Whenever, in the opinion of the city, it is
necessary to examine the federal income tax return of any business entity in
order to audit the return, the city may compel the business entity to produce
for inspection a copy of any statements and schedules in support thereof that
have not been previously filed. The city may also require copies of reports of
adjustments made by the federal government.
   (C)   Every business entity subject to an occupational license tax governed
by the provisions of this chapter shall keep records, render under oath
statements, make returns, and comply with rules as the city from time to time
may prescribe. Whenever the city deems it necessary, the city may require a
business entity, by notice served to the business entity, to make a return,
render statements under oath, or keep records, as the city deems sufficient to
determine the tax liability of the business entity.
   (D)   The city may require, for the purpose of ascertaining the correctness
of any return or for the purposes of making an estimate of the taxable income
of any business entity, the attendance of a representative of the business
entity or of any other person having knowledge in the premises.
   (E)   The full amount of the unpaid tax payable by any business entity, as
appears from the face of the return, shall be paid to the city at the time
prescribed for filing the occupational license tax return, determined without
regard to any extension of time for filing the return.
   (F)   It shall be the responsibility of persons who make Federal Form 1099
“Contract Employee compensation” payments to natural persons other than
employees for services performed within the city, to maintain records of such
payments and to report such payments to the city. Said payments must be
reported on by remitting copies of Federal Form 1099 by February 28 of the year
following the close of the calendar year in which the non-employee compensation
was paid. If a business entity or person is not required to remit Federal Form
1099 to the IRS, including, but not limited to, payments less than $600, they
are still liable to remit the equivalent information to the city. The
information required to be reported by said licensee shall include:
      (1)   Payer’s name, address, Social Security, and/or federal
identification number;
      (2)   Recipient’s name and address;
      (3)   Recipient’s Social Security and/or federal identification number;
      (4)   Amount of non-employee compensation paid in the calendar year; and
      (5)   Amount of non-employee compensation earned in the city for the
calendar year.
(Ord. passed 11-20-2018)
§ 110.07 EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The city may grant any business entity an extension of not more than
six months, unless a longer extension has been granted by the Internal Revenue
Service or is agreed to by the city and the business entity, for filing its
return, if the business entity, on or before the date prescribed for payment of
the occupational license tax, requests the extension and pays the amount
properly estimated as its tax. If estimated tax payment is zero, then no
estimate payment is required.
   (B)   If the time for filing a return is extended, the business entity will
pay as part of the tax, an amount equal to 12% per annum simple interest on the
tax shown due on the return, but not been previously paid, from the time the
tax was due on April 15 until the return is actually filed and the tax paid to
the city. A fraction of a month is counted as an entire month.
(Ord. passed 11-20-2018)
§ 110.08 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Where there has been an overpayment of tax under §
110.02, a refund or credit shall be made to the employer only to the extent
that the amount of the overpayment was not deducted and withheld under §
110.04 by the employer.
   (B)   Unless written application for refund or credit is received by the
city from the employer within two years from the date the overpayment was made,
no refund or credit shall be allowed.
   (C)   An employee who has compensation attributable to activities performed
outside the city, based on time spent outside the city, whose employer has
withheld and remitted to this city, the occupational license tax on the
compensation attributable to activities performed outside the city, may file
for a refund within two years of the date prescribed by law for the filing of a
return. The employee shall provide a schedule and computation sufficient to
verify the refund claim and the city may confirm with the employer the
percentage of time spent outside the city and the amount of compensation
attributable to the city.
(Ord. passed 11-20-2018)
§ 110.09 FEDERAL AUDIT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   As soon as practicable after each return is received, the city
may examine and audit the return. If the amount of tax computed by the city is
greater than the amount returned by the business entity, the additional tax
shall be assessed and a notice of assessment mailed to the business entity by
the city within five years from the date the return was filed, except as
otherwise provided in this division (A).
         (a)   In the case of a failure to file a return or of a fraudulent
return, the additional tax may be assessed at any time.
         (b)   In the case of a return where a business entity understates net
profit, or omits an amount properly includable in net profits, or both, which
understatement or omission, or both, is in excess of 25% of the amount of net
profit stated in the return, the additional tax may be assessed at any time
within six years after the return was filed.
         (c)   In the case of an assessment of additional tax relating directly
to adjustments resulting from a final determination of a federal audit, the
additional tax may be assessed before the expiration of the times provided in
this division (A), or six months from the date the city receives the final
determination of the federal audit from the business entity, whichever is
later.
      (2)   The times provided in this division may be extended by agreement
between the business entity and the city. For the purposes of this division
(A), a return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the return
shall be considered as filed on the last day. Any extension granted for filing
the return shall also be considered as extending the last day prescribed by law
for filing the return.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of the final determination
of the federal audit within 30 days of the conclusion of the federal audit.
   (C)   The city may initiate a civil action for the collection of any
additional tax within the times prescribed in division (A) of this section.
(Ord. passed 11-20-2018)
§ 110.10 ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No suit shall be maintained in any court to restrain or delay the
collection or payment of the tax levied by this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Any tax collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter may
be refunded or credited within two years of the date prescribed by law for the
filing of a return or the date the money was paid to the city, whichever is the
later, except that:
         (a)   In any case where the assessment period contained in §
110.09 has been extended by an agreement between the business entity and the
city, the limitation contained in this division (B) shall be extended
accordingly.
         (b)   If the claim for refund or credit relates directly to
adjustments resulting from a federal audit, the business entity shall file a
claim for refund or credit within the time provided for in this division (B) or
six months from the conclusion of the federal audit, whichever is later.
      (2)   For the purposes of this division (B) and division (C) of this
section, a return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the
return shall be considered as filed on the last day.
   (C)   The authority to refund or credit overpayments of taxes collected
pursuant to this chapter is vested exclusively in the city.
(Ord. passed 11-20-2018)
§ 110.11 INFORMATION TO REMAIN CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   No present or former employee of the city shall intentionally and
without authorization inspect or divulge any information acquired by him or her
of the affairs of any person, or information regarding the tax schedules,
returns, or reports required to be filed with the city or other proper officer,
or any information produced by a hearing or investigation, insofar as the
information may have to do with the affairs of the person’s business. This
prohibition does not extend to information required in prosecutions for making
false reports or returns for taxation, or any other infraction of the tax laws,
or in any way made a matter of public record, nor does it preclude furnishing
any taxpayer or the taxpayer’s properly authorized agent with information
respecting his or her own return. Further, this prohibition does not preclude
any employee of the city from testifying in any court, or from introducing as
evidence returns or reports filed with the city, in an action for violation of
the city tax laws or in any action challenging the city laws.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to disclose to the Commissioner of Revenue
of the Commonwealth of Kentucky or his or her duly authorized agent all such
information and rights to inspect any of the books and records of the city if
the Commissioner of Revenue of the commonwealth grants to the city the
reciprocal right to obtain information from the files and records of the State
Department of Revenue and maintains the privileged character of the information
so furnished; provided, further, that the city may publish statistics based on
such information in such a manner as not to reveal data respecting net profits
or compensation of any person or business entity.
   (C)   In addition, the city is empowered to execute similar reciprocity
agreements as described in division (B) of this section with any other taxing
entity, should there be a need for exchange of information in order to effect
diligent enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.12 USE OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX.
   All moneys derived from license fees under the provisions of this chapter
shall be paid to the Finance Director and placed to the credit of the General
Revenue Fund of the city and shall be used and expended in defraying current
general and incidental expenses of the city. It is the purpose of this chapter
to provide revenue for the General Fund and it is not the intention of the city
or of this chapter to impose and require an occupational license fee prohibited
by law.
(Ord. passed 11-20-2018)
§ 110.13 ITINERANT SALESPERSON.
   (A)   No permit for a general peddler shall be granted to any person who,
within the last three years, has been convicted of any of the following:
illegal gambling activities; illegal transaction with a minor; illegal
possession or sale of controlled substances or alcohol; theft by deception;
fraud; illegal flight to escape prosecution; or any felony of any kind.
   (B)   Upon application for a general business license, the License Inspector
will require the applicant to submit a criminal background check report from
the Kentucky State Police or the Kentucky Administrative Office of the courts.
Report costs are the responsibility of the applicant and the applicant may
choose whichever of the two entities is more affordable at the time that the
check is requested.
(Ord. passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.14 DELINQUENT TAXES.
   Effective January 1, 2018 the city shall no longer do business with any
person or business entity that is more than six months delinquent in the
payment of taxes owed to the city
(Ord. passed 11-20-2018)
BUSINESS LICENSE FEE
§ 110.25 BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person or business entity engaged in any trade, occupation, or
profession, or other activity for profit or anyone required to file a return
under this chapter in the city shall be required to complete and execute the
business license application prescribed by the Occupational Tax Office. Each
person shall be required to complete a separate application for each separate
business before the commencement of business or in the event of a status
change, other than change of address. Licensees are required to notify City
Hall of changes of address, or the cessation of business activity, and of other
changes which render inaccurate the information supplied in the completed
application.
   (B)   Every person or business entity engaged in any trade, occupation, or
profession, or other activity for profit, or anyone required to file a return
under this chapter in the city shall pay a minimum annual business license fee
based upon gross receipts from the taxable prior year at a rate according to
the schedule in division (C) below, payable in advance to the city for each
calendar year. In the case of a new business, the first-year license fee is $35
or if a contract has been awarded, a fee set by the schedule in division (C)
and based on the total contract price is applicable. Existing entities must
make business license payments each year no later than January 31. A penalty up
to $25 may be imposed on unpaid accounts. The paid business license amount
shall be a credit on the occupational net profit tax as otherwise provided in
this chapter only for the tax year which the minimum fee covers and shall not
be a credit for any subsequent year.
   (C)   (1)
If Gross Receipts for Year Prior or Contract Are Fee Is
If Gross Receipts for Year Prior or Contract Are Fee Is
$25,000 or less                                  $35
$25,001—$50,000                                $60
$50,000—$75,000                                $80
$75,000—$100,000                               $100
$100,001—$125,000                              $125
$125,001—$150,000                              $150
$150,001—$175,000                              $175
$175,001—$200,000                              $200
$200,001—$225,000                              $225
$225,001—$250,000                              $250
$250,001—$275,000                              $275
$275,001—$300,000                              $300
$300,001—$325,000                              $325
$325,001—$350,000                              $350
$350,001—$375,000                              $375
$375,001—$400,000                              $400
$400,001—$425,000                              $425
$425,001—$450,000                              $450
$450,001—$475,000                              $475
$475,001—$500,000                              $500
If cash receipts exceed $500,001, the license will be $100 for each additional
$100,000 up to $2,000,000
 
   (2)   In no event shall any minimum fee set forth under this subchapter be
reduced for the reason that the business or activity covering same shall have
been commenced subsequent to January l of the tax year.
(Ord. passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   A business entity subject to tax on net profits may be subject
to a penalty equal to 5% of the tax due for each calendar month or fraction
thereof if the business entity:
         (a)   Fails to file any return or report on or before the due date
prescribed for filing or as extended by the city; or
         (b)   Fails to pay the tax computed on the return or report on or
before the due date prescribed for payment.
      (2)   The total penalty levied pursuant to this division (A) shall not
exceed 25% of the total tax due; however, the penalty shall not be less than
$25.
   (B)   Every employer who fails to file a return or pay the tax on or before
the date prescribed under §
110.04 may be subject to a penalty in an amount equal to 5% of the tax due for
each calendar month or fraction thereof. The total penalty levied pursuant to
this division (B) shall not exceed 25% of the total tax due; however, the
penalty shall not be less than $25.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer shall pay, as part of the tax, an amount equal to 12% per
annum simple interest on the tax shown due, but not previously paid, from the
time the tax was due until the tax is paid to the city. A fraction of a month
is counted as an entire month.
   (D)   Every tax imposed by this chapter, and all increases, interest, and
penalties thereon, shall become, from the time the tax is due and payable, a
personal debt of the taxpayer to the city.
   (E)   The city may enforce the collection of the occupational tax due under
§
110.02 and any fees, penalties, and interest as provided in divisions (A), (B),
(C), and (D) of this section by civil action in a court of appropriate
jurisdiction. To the extent authorized by law, the city shall be entitled to
recover all court costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by it in
enforcing any provision of this chapter.
   (F)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any person,
business entity, or employer who willfully fails to make a return, willfully
makes a false return, or who willfully fails to pay taxes owing or collected,
with the intent to evade payment of the tax or amount collected, or any part
thereof, shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (G)   Any person who willfully aids or assists in, or procures, counsels, or
advises the preparation or presentation under, or in connection with, any
matter arising under this chapter of a return, affidavit, claim, or other
document, which is fraudulent or is false as to any material matter, whether or
not the falsity or fraud is with the knowledge or consent of the person
authorized or required to present the return, affidavit, claim, or document,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (H)   A RETURN for the purpose of this section shall mean and include any
return, declaration, or form prescribed by the city and required to be filed
with the city by the provisions of this chapter, or by the rules of the city or
by written request for information to the business entity by the city.
   (I)   Any person violating the provisions of §
110.11 by intentionally inspecting confidential taxpayer information without
authorization, shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not longer
than six months, or both.
   (J)   Any person violating the provisions of §
110.11 by divulging confidential taxpayer information shall be fined not more
than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.
   (K)   Any person violating the provisions of §
110.13 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500.
(Ord. passed 11-20-2018)
CHAPTER 111: ADVERTISING
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Advertising on poles prohibited
   
111.02   Right of businesses to advertise
Signs
   
111.15   Intent
   
111.16   Definitions
   
111.17   General sign regulations
   
111.18   Residential districts
   
111.19   Business districts
   
111.20   Industrial districts
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 ADVERTISING ON POLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful within the corporate limits of the city for any
person, firm, association, or corporation to post or erect by any means, to,
upon, or against any object, natural or artificial, any advertising of any sort
or kind; or to post placards of any kind on telephone, telegraph, or television
poles or on any tree along on in clear vision of any street or alley in the
city; or to erect any billboard within the city for the purpose of displaying
thereon, advertising matter of any description, including placards setting for
the pictures or merits of candidates for office in either a primary or general
election.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, association, or corporation
in the city to lease or let, or give its consent to the placing of such
advertising matter on their property, or to consent to the erection of
billboards thereon for any such purpose.
(Ord. passed 6-12-1954) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 RIGHT OF BUSINESSES TO ADVERTISE.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as to deprive any person, firm,
association, or corporation of the right to attach to their places of business
signs designating the name of the occupant, and such description of the
business in which he or she or it is engaged, nor shall it be construed to
prohibited the display, within any building, of any advertising matter that the
owner of the business may consent to have displayed therein.
(Ord. passed 6-12-1954)
SIGNS
§ 111.15 INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to promote and protect the public
health, welfare, and safety by regulating existing and proposed outdoor
advertising, outdoor advertising signs, and outdoor signs of all types.
   (B)   It is intended to:
      (1)   Protect property values;
      (2)   Create a more attractive economic business climate;
      (3)   Promote economic development;
      (4)   Enhance and protect the physical appearance of the community;
      (5)   Preserve the scenic and natural beauty of designated areas;
      (6)   Balance the rights of individuals to convey their messages through
temporary signs and the right of the public to be protected against the
unrestricted proliferations of signs;
      (7)   Further the objectives of the city’s strategic plan;
      (8)   Protect the public health, safety, and welfare;
      (9)   Reduce traffic and pedestrian hazards; and
      (10)   Ensure fair and consistent enforcement of these regulations in
their entirety.
(Ord. passed 6-25-2018)
§ 111.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BILLBOARD. Any sign that promotes or advertises off-premise commodities or
services.
   POST. To erect, attach, or affix in any manner, including, without
limitation, nailing, tacking, tying, gluing, pasting, painting, staking,
marking, or writing.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN. A sign indicating the availability for sale, rent, or
lease of the specific of the specific lot, building, or portion of a building
upon which the sign is posted.
   SIGN. Any writing, pictorial representation, illustration, decoration
(including any material used to differentiate sign copy from its background),
landscaping form, emblem, symbol, design, trademark, banner, flag, pennant,
captive balloon, streamer, spinner, ribbon, sculpture, statue, or any other
figure or character that:
      (1)   Is a structure or any part thereof (including the roof or wall of a
building); or
      (2)   Is written, printed, projected, painted, constructed, or otherwise
placed or displayed upon or designed into landscaping or a structure or a
board, plate, canopy, awning, marquee, or vehicle, or upon any material object
or device whatsoever; and
      (3)   By reason of its form, color, wording, symbol, design,
illumination, or motion attracts or is designed to attract attention to the
subject thereof or is used as a means of identifications, advertisement, or
announcement or political or artistic expression or decoration; but
      (4)   Landscaping constitutes a sign only to the extent that it is
planted, trimmed, graded, arranged, or installed in such a manner as to convey
an explicit commercial message.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign that is:
      (1)   Intended for a temporary period of posting;
      (2)   Typically constructed from nondurable materials, including paper,
cardboard, cloth, plastic, and/or wallboard; and
      (3)   Does not constitute a structure subject to the city’s building code
and zoning code provisions.
(Ord. passed 6-25-2018)
§ 111.17 GENERAL SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No commercial or digital billboard shall be permitted in the city
limits.
   (B)   All signs, unless otherwise specified in this subchapter, shall be set
back from the established right-of-way of any road or highway at least as far
as three-quarters of the required front yard depth for the principal building
in the zone in which it is located.
   (C)   All constructed signs in any zone require a permit to be obtained from
the designated Codes Enforcement/Zoning Official.
   (D)   No sign or billboard, other than real estate signs advertising the
sale, rental, or leasing of the premises, shall be permitted in any residential
zone except as provided in the specific zone’s regulations regarding home
occupations. Real estate signs shall not exceed four square feet in area and
shall be displayed at least ten feet from all lot lines.
   (E)   Advertising signs, structures, or lights for support and illumination
of signs, where permitted, shall in no case be placed in or extended over the
street right-of-way.
   (F)   Government signs, including official informational or directional
signs, and historic markers are permitted in all zones and are exempt from
these regulations.
   (G)   Temporary signs:
      (1)   No temporary sign shall obstruct or impair access to a public
sidewalk, public or private street or driveway, traffic-control sign, bus stop,
fire hydrant, or any other type of street furniture, or otherwise create a
hazard, including a tripping hazard;
      (2)   A temporary sign shall be designed to be stable under all weather
conditions, including high winds;
      (3)   No temporary sign shall be illuminated or painted with light-
reflecting paint;
      (4)   Prior to placement or posting, all temporary signs, including yard
sale and political advertising signs, must be documented at City Hall. The
poster of the sign may contact City Hall by phone or in person to document
their posting along with providing their name and contact information if the
city should need to contact them about issues with their sign(s);
      (5)   A temporary sign may be posted for a period of up to 21 days, at
which time the sign shall be removed by approval;
      (6)   Political and yard sale signs must not exceed eight square feet in
size and must abide by all regulations regarding visibility at intersections;
      (7)   Political signs shall be posted no earlier than 45 days prior to
the election and shall be removed no later than two days following the date of
the election;
      (8)   Yard sale signs may be posted no earlier than two days prior to the
state of the yard sale and must be removed no later than two days following the
final day of the yard sale; and
      (9)   Under no circumstances shall temporary signs be posted on utility
poles.
   (H)   In no way shall the provisions of this subchapter be taken to conflict
with state or federal regulations regarding obstructions or the placement of
structures in state or federal rights-of-way. In all cases, the most
restrictive provision will apply.
   (I)   The city maintains the right to remove any sign that is in violation
of these regulations set forth in §
111.99 and in the process detailed, also set forth in §
111.99.
(Ord. passed 6-25-2018) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.18 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   Signs are permitted in residential districts only in accordance with the
following provisions.
   (A)   Temporary signs pertaining to the lease or sale of a building or land
may be erected as provided in §
111.17.
   (B)   Temporary signs may be erected to advertise a new subdivision of five
or more lots, for the up to one year, provided that the sign is: no larger than
60 square feet in area; is not internally illuminated; advertises only the
subdivision in which it is located; and is erected only at a dedicated street
entrance.
   (C)   One unilluminated sign may be erected in conjunction with the
construction of a building to identify the owner, architect, engineer,
contractor, and others instrumental in the construction of the building,
provided that such a sign is: not more than 12 square feet in area; no more
than 15 feet above the ground; and is removed within 30 days of occupancy, post
construction completion.
   (D)   One identifying sign of not more than 30 square feet in area may be
erected for churches, libraries, schools, parks, hospitals, and other public
facilities of a similar nature. Such sign shall be solely for the purpose of
displaying the name of the establishment and its activities or services. It may
be illuminated but shall not be flashing.
   (E)   Directional signs, not exceeding two square feet in area shall be
permitted only on major thoroughfare approaches to institutions listed in
division (D) above. No such signs shall be permitted on minor residential
streets.
   (F)   One indirectly lighted name plate sign for a dwelling group of four or
more dwellings not exceeding six square feet in area. Such signs may indicate
only the names of buildings or names of the occupant of the building.
   (G)   Accessory uses for professional offices or home occupations shall be
permitted and include one indirectly lighted name plate sign not over two
square feet in area.
(Ord. passed 6-25-2018) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.19 BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   (A)   In all business districts, each business shall be permitted to have
permanent outside signs so long as it has an active and valid business license
from the city.
   (B)   Signs permitted under this section shall be limited to those as
described.
      (1)   Each business shall be entitled to have one sign which is mounted
flush against a building. The depth of such a sign from a face to the building
shall not exceed one foot. The area of such a flush- mount sign shall be
limited to a total surface area equivalent one and one-half square feet of sign
area for each lineal foot of building width occupied by the business. In the
event that the area shall exceed 50 square feet, application must be made and
approved by the Planning Commission.
      (2)   Additionally, one freestanding sign structure shall be permitted
for each lot of 100-foot frontage or less and one additional structure for each
additional 100 feet of lot frontage. Any such freestanding sign structures
shall be no more than 72 square feet in area nor shall two or more smaller
signs be so arranged and integrated as to create a single sign in excess of 72
square feet. All such freestanding signs shall be set back 25 feet, or more,
from the front property line.
         (a)   Where the dimensions of any two- faced or multi-sided sign must
be determined by measuring the surface area on one side of the sign,
freestanding signs shall not exceed a height of 25 feet.
         (b)   If a business is adjacent to more than one street or highway,
additional freestanding signs may be allowed upon application to and subsequent
approval from the Planning Commission.
      (3)   Each neighborhood business area built as a planned unit development
may have one freestanding identification sign for each street on which it
fronts, set back at least 25 feet from the front property line and presenting
only the name of the shopping center, the businesses located therein, and the
hours of business. Each such sign shall not exceed 300 square feet in area.
(Ord. passed 6-25-2018) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.20 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   All signs permitted in business districts are also permitted in I-
1 districts and subject to the requirements thereof.
   (B)   One sign structure for identification and direction purposes may be
erected at access points to public streets provided that such signs are no
larger than 50 square feet in area.
(Ord. passed 6-25-2018) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found to be in violation of §§
111.01 and
111.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction therefor, shall be
punished by a fine of not to exceed $50.
   (C)   If any sign shall be posted or maintained in violation of any of the
terms of §§
111.15 through
111.20, or if:
      (1)   Any sign presents in a state of dilapidation, disrepair, or
neglect; or
      (2)   Any sign depicts or communicates an offensive or vulgar message,
the Codes Official shall notify, in writing, the owner or lessee thereof to
alter such sign to comply with §§
111.15 through
111.20. Failure to comply with any of the provisions of §§
111.15 through
111.20 shall be deemed a violation and shall be punishable by fine under the
zoning regulations, as adopted by reference in
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances. Further, the city maintains the right
to remove any sign that fails to comply with code enforcement notification
within 30 days of receipt of said notice. Signs posted in violation of §§
111.15 through
111.20 that also post safety hazards are subject to immediate removal without
notice to the owner or lessee.
(Ord. passed 6-12-1954; Ord. passed 6-25-2018)
CHAPTER 112: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
112.01   Imposition of license fee
   
112.02   Amount of fee for companies issuing life insurance
   
112.03   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
112.04   Due date; interest and refunds
   
112.05   Written breakdown of collections
Statutory reference:
   Adjustments for overpayment, underpayment, or nonpayment, see KRS 91A.0804
§ 112.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city, on a calendar-year basis.
(Ord. passed 3-11-2019)
§ 112.02 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING LIFE INSURANCE.
   The license fee or tax imposed by the city upon each insurance company with
respect to life insurance policies may be based upon the first year's premiums,
and if so based, shall be applied to the amount of the premiums actually
collected within each calendar quarter upon the lives of persons residing
within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. passed 3-11-2019)
Statutory reference:
   See also KRS 91A.080(2)
§ 112.03 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   (A)   The license fee or tax imposed upon each insurance company with
respect to any policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be based upon
the premiums actually collected by the insurance company within each calendar
quarter on risks located within the corporate limits of the city on those
classes of business which the insurance company is authorized to transact, less
all premiums returned to policyholders. In determining the amount of license
fee or tax to be collected and to be paid to the city, the insurance company
shall use the tax rate effective on the first day of the policy term. When an
insurance company collects a premium as a result of a change in the policy
during the policy term, the tax rate used shall be the rate in effect on the
effective date of the policy change. With respect to premiums returned to
policyholders, the license fee or tax shall be returned by the insurance
company to the policyholder pro rata on the unexpired amount of the premium at
the same rate at which it was collected and shall be taken as a credit by the
insurance company on its next quarterly report to the city.
   (B)   No license fee or tax imposed under this chapter shall apply to
premiums:
      (1)   Received on policies of group health insurance provided for state
employees under KRS 18A.225;
      (2)   Received on policies insuring employers against liability for
personal injuries to their employees or the death of their employees caused
thereby, under the provision of KRS Chapter 342;
      (3)   Received on health insurance policies issued to individuals;
      (4)   Received on policies issued through Kentucky Access created in
Subtitle 17B of KRS Chapter 304;
      (5)   Received on policies for high deductible health plans as defined in
26 U.S.C. § 223(c)(2);
      (6)   Received on multi-state surplus lines, defined as non-admitted
insurance as provided in Title V, Subtitle B, the Non-Admitted and Reinsurance
Reform Act of 2010, of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act, Pub. L. No. 111-203;
      (7)   Paid to insurance companies or surplus lines brokers by nonprofit
self-insurance groups or self-insurance entities whose membership consists of
school districts; or
      (8)   Paid to insurance companies or surplus lines brokers by nonprofit
self-insurance groups or self-insurance entities whose membership consists of
cities, counties, charter county governments, urban-county governments,
consolidated local governments, unified local governments, school districts, or
any other political subdivisions of the Commonwealth.
   (C)   No license fee or tax imposed under this chapter shall apply to
premiums paid to insurers of municipal bonds, leases, or other debt instruments
issued by or on behalf of a city, county, charter county government, urban-
county government, consolidated local government, special district, nonprofit
corporation, or other political subdivision of the Commonwealth. However, this
exemption shall not apply if the bonds, leases, or other debt instruments are
issued for profit or on behalf of for-profit or private organizations.
(Ord. passed 3-11-2019)
Statutory Reference:
   See also KRS 91A.080(3), 91A.080(10) and 91A.080(13)
§ 112.04 DUE DATE; INTEREST AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30
days after the end of each calendar quarter.
   (B)   (1)   Any insurance company or agent that overpays any license fee or
tax to a city shall be refunded the amount overpaid. If it is determined that
an insurance company or agent paid a license fee or tax to a city based upon
premiums collected upon lives or risks which are discovered to be located
outside the legal corporate limits of the city which was paid the license fee
or tax, the insurance company or agent shall be refunded those license fees and
taxes within 90 days of notice to the city paid.
      (2)   All amended returns, requests for refunds or credits, and
assessments shall be made within two years of the due date of the annual
reconciliation provided for in KRS 91A.080(8) for the tax period during which
the error was made, except that in the case of fraudulent failure to file a
return or the filing of a fraudulent return, the underpayment may be assessed
at any time.
      (3)   License fees which are not paid on or before the due date shall
bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in KRS 131.010(6) from the
date until paid. Such interest payable to the city is separate from penalties
provided for in KRS 91A.080(7). In addition, the city may assess a 10% penalty
for a tax or fee not paid within 30 days after the due date.
(Ord. passed 3-11-2019)
Statutory Reference:
   See also KRS 91A.080(8) and 91A.080(9)
§ 112.05 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city with a breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance;
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(Ord. passed 3-11-2019)
Statutory Reference:
   See also KRS 91A.080(8)
CHAPTER 113: YARD SALES
Section
   
113.01   Permits and signs
§ 113.01 PERMITS AND SIGNS.
   A household may have three yard sales every six months without charge. If
yard sale signs are used, they must be obtained from City Hall at the time the
permit is issued for the yard sale. There will be a charge for the signs. The
signs must be posted no more than one week before the sale date as instructed
and removed no more than two days after the sale is over. Signs may be posted
only on private property. No signs may be posted on public property, including
power poles and guard rails. Each sign package will be identified by numbers.
Those not complying with the rules will be denied additional sign packages.
Permits are for three days.
(1995 Code, § 116.01) (Ord. passed 7-8-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 114: ALCOHOL BEVERAGE CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
114.001   Title, purpose, and application
   
114.002   Amendments
License Requirements
   
114.015   Application fee
   
114.016   City licenses
   
114.017   Limited restaurant license
   
114.018   Limited golf course license
   
114.019   Non-quota type 1 retail drink license
   
114.020   Non-quota type 2 retail drink license
   
114.021   Non-quota type 3 retail drink license
   
114.022   Non-quota type 4 retail malt beverage drink license
   
114.023   Special temporary license
   
114.024   Special Sunday retail drink license
   
114.025   Extended hours
   
114.026   Expiration of license; proration of fees
   
114.027   Payment of license fees; delinquency
   
114.028   Refund of fees
   
114.029   Regulatory license fee
   
114.030   Disposition of fees and any other type of payment to the city
City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
   
114.045   Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
   
114.046   Appeals
Application and Maintenance of License
   
114.060   Advertisement
   
114.061   Form of application
   
114.062   Other conditions
   
114.063   Form of license
   
114.064   Change of information
   
114.065   Renewal of license
   
114.066   Lost or destroyed license
   
114.067   Revocation or suspension
   
114.068   Proceedings for revocation or suspension of license
   
114.069   Refusal of license
   
114.070   Review of license; books, records, and reports
   
114.071   Dormancy
Conditions, Prohibitions, and Restrictions
   
114.085   Gambling
   
114.086   Radio receiving apparatus
   
114.087   Security
   
114.088   Prizes and premiums prohibited
   
114.089   Treating prohibited
   
114.090   Drunkenness
   
114.091   Underage sales
   
114.092   Sign requirements; notice to persons under the age of 21
   
114.093   License to be displayed
   
114.094   Legal transactions for wholesalers, distributors, and retail
   
114.095   Employment restrictions
   
114.096   Lavatory facilities required
   
114.097   Nudity and adult entertainment activities prohibited
   
114.098   Cause for revocation
   
114.099   Minors
   
114.100   Consumption on-premises prohibited
   
114.101   Malt beverage keg registration
   
114.102   Enforcement
   
114.103   Signs and advertising
   
114.104   Patio and outdoor sales
   
114.105   Hours for sale and delivery
Entertainment Destination Center
   
114.120   Entertainment Destination Center
 
   
114.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.001 TITLE, PURPOSE, AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known as the “Alcoholic Beverage Control
Ordinance” of the City of Pineville, Kentucky (hereinafter referred to as the
“city”).
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish uniform regulations and
requirements for the licensing and regulation of alcoholic beverage manufacture
and sales pursuant to authorization under KRS Chapters 241 to 244.
   (C)   The definitions of the words used throughout this chapter, unless the
context requires otherwise, shall have the same meaning as those set out in the
alcoholic beverage control laws (KRS Chapters 241 to 244) of the Commonwealth
and all amendments and supplements thereto.
   (D)   This chapter shall be construed to apply to the manufacture and
traffic in both malt beverages and distilled spirits and wine where the context
permits such application. Nothing in this chapter shall excuse or relieve the
licensee, or the owner, proprietor, employee, agent, or person in charge of any
licensed premises where alcoholic beverages are sold from the restrictions,
requirements, and penalties of any other ordinance of the city, or of any
statutes of the state relating to violations pertaining to alcoholic beverages.
   (E)   The provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Law of the
Commonwealth (KRS Chapters 241 to 244) and all amendments and supplements
thereto are adopted so far as applicable to this chapter, except as otherwise
lawfully provided herein.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 114.002 AMENDMENTS.
   The City Council may promulgate rules and regulations, and/or amendments
thereto, as is in its discretion in order to ensure the proper implementation
of this chapter. Such will be done as according to local, state, and federal
law.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
LICENSE REQUIREMENTS
§ 114.015 APPLICATION FEE.
   A nonrefundable application fee of $50 shall be paid with the filing of the
application for a city license. If the license is granted, the application fee
shall be credited against the initial license fee.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 114.016 CITY LICENSES.
   (A)   For the privilege of causing, permitting, and engaging in the actions,
business, and transactions authorized thereby in regard to traffic in alcoholic
beverages in the city, and pursuant to the authority of KRS 243.070, there is
hereby established a corresponding city license for each of the state licenses
described in KRS 243.070. The fee for each city license shall be as set out in
the schedule set forth below. In the event KRS 243.070 shall hereafter be
amended to authorize additional city licenses, the fee for each city license
shall be the maximum fee provided in the statute as amended.
      (1)   Distiller’s license: per annum $500;
      (2)   Rectifier’s license:
         (a)   Class A, per annum $3,000; and
         (b)   Class B (craft rectifier), per annum $960.
      (3)   Wholesaler’s license: per annum $3,000;
      (4)   Quota retail package license: per annum $1,000;
      (5)   Quota retail drink license: per annum N/A;
      (6)   Special temporary license: per event $166;
      (7)   Non-quota type 1 retail drink license: per annum (includes
distilled spirits, wine, and malt beverages) $2,000;
      (8)   Non-quota type 2 retail drink license: per annum (includes
distilled spirits, wine and malt beverages) $1,000;
      (9)   Non-quota type 3 retail drink license: per annum (includes
distilled spirits, wine, and malt beverages) $300;
      (10)   Special temporary alcohol auction license: per event $200;
      (11)   Special Sunday retail drink license: per annum $300;
      (12)   Extended hours supplement license: per annum $100;
      (13)   Caterer’s license: per annum $800;
      (14)   Bottling house or bottling house storage license: per annum
$1,000;
      (15)   Brewer’s license: per annum $500;
      (16)   Microbrewery license: per annum $500;
      (17)   Malt beverage distributor’s license: per annum $400;
      (18)   Non-quota retail malt beverage package license: per annum $200;
      (19)   Non-quota type 4 retail malt beverage drink license: per annum
$200;
      (20)   Malt beverage brew-on-premises license: per annum $100;
      (21)   Limited restaurant license: per annum (includes distilled spirits,
wine, and malt beverages) $1,200;
      (22)   Limited golf course license: per annum (includes distilled
spirits, wine, and malt beverages) $1,200; and
      (23)   Authorized public consumption license: per annum (if want to
allow) $250.
   (B)   The fee for each of the first five supplemental bar licenses shall be
the same as the fee for the primary drink license. There shall be no charge for
each supplemental license issued in excess of five to the same licensee at the
same premises.
   (C)   The holder of a non-quota retail malt beverage package license may
obtain a non-quota type 4 malt beverage drink license for a fee of $50. The
holder of a non-quota type 4 malt beverage drink license may obtain a non-quota
retail malt beverage package license for a fee of $50.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 114.017 LIMITED RESTAURANT LICENSE.
   A limited restaurant license may be issued pursuant to KRS Chapter 243 if
said restaurant meets the definition of a “Limited Restaurant” as set forth in
KRS 241.010(37), it is a facility where the usual and customary business is the
serving of meals to consumers, which has a bona fide kitchen facility, which
receives at least 70% of its gross income from the sale of food, and which
maintains seating capacity of either 100 or 50 persons for dining. If the
limited restaurant only maintains seating capacity for 50 persons, it shall not
have open bar and all alcoholic beverages shall be sold in conjunction with the
sale of a meal.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 114.018 LIMITED GOLF COURSE LICENSE.
   (A)   A limited golf course license may be issued pursuant to KRS Chapter
243 if an establishment meets the following condition: a golf course with nine
or 18 holes that meets United States Golf Association criteria as a regulation
golf course.
   (B)   A limited golf course license shall authorize the licensee to
purchase, receive, possess, and sell distilled spirits, wine, and malt
beverages at retail by the drink for consumption on the licensed premises.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 114.019 NON-QUOTA TYPE 1 RETAIL DRINK LICENSE.
   A non-quota retail drink license may be issued to, and in, the following as
defined by KRS to: a convention center or a convention hotel complex; a horse
racetrack; an automobile racetrack; a railroad system; a commercial airlines
system or charter flight system; a qualified historic site; and a state park.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 114.020 NON-QUOTA TYPE 2 RETAIL DRINK LICENSE.
   A non-quota retail drink license may be issued pursuant to and as defined by
KRS to the following:
   (A)   A hotel that contains at least 50 sleeping units, contains minimum
dining seating for at least 50 persons, and which maintains 50% of its gross
food and drinks sales are from the sale of food;
   (B)   A restaurant that contains minimum dining seating for at least 50
persons, and which maintains 50% of its gross food and drinks sales are from
the sale of food;
   (C)   An airport; or
   (D)   A riverboat.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 114.021 NON-QUOTA TYPE 3 RETAIL DRINK LICENSE.
   A non-quota 3 retail drink license may be issued pursuant to and defined by
KRS to the following:
   (A)   A private club in existence for longer than one year prior to the
license application and which excludes the general public;
   (B)   A dining car;
   (C)   A distiller; and
   (D)   A bed and breakfast.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 114.022 NON-QUOTA TYPE 4 RETAIL MALT BEVERAGE DRINK LICENSE.
   A non-quota type 4 retail malt beverage drink license may be issued pursuant
to and as defined in KRS to the following: a holder of a quota retail drink
license; a holder of a microbrewery license; a holder of a small farm winery
license; and any other business wishing to sell malt beverages by the drink for
consumption on the premises only. A non-quota retail malt beverage drink
license shall not be issued to any premises from which gasoline and lubricating
oil are sold, or from which the servicing and repair of motor vehicles is
conducted, unless there is maintained in inventory for sale on the premises at
retail not less than $5,000 of food, groceries, and related products valued at
cost.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 114.023 SPECIAL TEMPORARY LICENSE.
   A special temporary license may be issued only as set forth in KRS 243.260
and 804 KAR 4:250. Such a license may be issued to any regularly organized
fair, exposition, racing association, organized civic or community-sponsored
event, or charitable event as defined by applicable law. This license shall
authorize the licensee to exercise the privileges of a quota retail drink
licensee and a non-quota type 4 malt beverage drink licensee at designated
premises for a specified and limited time, which shall not exceed 30 days and
which shall expire when the qualifying event ends. All restrictions and
prohibitions applying to a distilled spirits and wine quota retail drink
license or a non-quota retail malt beverage drink license shall apply also to a
special temporary licensee as described in this section.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 114.024 SPECIAL SUNDAY RETAIL DRINK LICENSE.
   No Sunday sales shall be permitted unless the licensee obtains a special
Sunday retail drink license. This license shall authorize the sale of alcoholic
beverages on Sundays between the hours of 1:00 p.m. and 12:00 a.m. (midnight).
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.025 EXTENDED HOURS.
   All sales shall cease at midnight unless the licensee obtains an extended
hours license. This license shall authorize the sale of alcoholic beverages
between the hours of 12:00 a.m. (midnight) until 2:00 a.m.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 114.026 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE; PRORATION OF FEES.
   All city licenses, except temporary licenses, shall begin on May 1 of any
year and shall expire on April 30 of the following year as set forth in KRS
243.090 and 804 KAR 4:390. Any licenses issued after October 1 of any year
shall be assessed a fee which is based on the pro rata portion of the remainder
of the license period; however, the cost of any license shall not be less than
one-half the amount of the full fee for an annual license of that type.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 114.027 PAYMENT OF LICENSE FEES; DELINQUENCY.
   No licensee shall enter into or begin operating any business for which a
license is required by this chapter until the license fee has been paid in
full. The fee for renewal of any license shall be paid with the renewal
application. Failure to pay any license fee within ten days after it becomes
due shall result in a penalty equal to 10% of the license fee. Any licensee
failing to pay the fees, including penalties, within ten days after such fees
are due may be subject to revocation of the license and to other penalties as
provided in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 114.028 REFUND OF FEES.
   (A)   Should any licensee under this chapter be prohibited from conducting
the licensed business for the full period covered by the license because of any
changes that may hereafter be made in the laws of the Commonwealth with
reference to alcoholic beverages or other cause outside licensee’s control,
then the city shall refund to licensee the proportionate part of the license
fee for the period during which licensee is prevented from carrying on said
business if the licensee provides sufficient proof to the City ABC
Administrator that such period of inactivity was not the fault of the licensee
or the result of a revocation, suspension, or other wrongdoing by licensee, or
an agent or employee of the licensee.
   (B)   In the event a violation of this chapter occurs that results in the
suspension or revocation of the license, the city shall not be required to
refund any portion of the license fee.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 114.029 REGULATORY LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 243.075, there is hereby imposed a regulatory license
fee on the gross receipts of sale of alcoholic beverages of each licensee who
has a local license issued by the City ABC Administrator. The city’s regulatory
license fee shall be 6% of gross sales of all alcoholic beverages sold by the
drink. In the case of retail package sales of alcoholic beverages, the
regulatory license fee shall be 5% of gross sales. The regulatory license fee
shall be 5% on gross retail sales of package malt beverages. (Please note: the
City Council may adopt with the budget for each subsequent fiscal year, such
annual rate for the regulatory license fee as shall be reasonably estimated to
ensure full reimbursement to the city for the cost of any additional policing,
regulatory, or administrative expense related to the sale of alcoholic
beverages in the city. Should the city fail to address the regulatory license
fee in any budget, then the regulatory license fee shall remain at the level at
which it was last fixed in this ABC chapter until such time as the City Council
shall adjust the fee.)
   (B)   Payment of said regulatory fee shall be remitted to the City ABC
Administrator, who shall transmit all fees to the City Clerk, or his or her
designee, for deposit into the appropriate designated account. The city may use
said fees as permitted by law, including, but not limited to, any cost of
additional policing, regulatory, or administrative expenses related to the sale
of alcoholic beverages in the city. The regulatory license fee shall be in
addition to any other fees or licenses permitted by law, except that a credit
against a regulatory license fee in the city shall be allowed in an amount
equal to any license fee shall be based on paperwork required by the local and/
or state ABC Administrator, which may include, but is not limited to, tax
returns and financial statements. Said paperwork and payment will be due
according to the schedule set forth by the Mayor, or his or her designee, which
may be set at, but is not limited to, time periods consisting of a monthly or
quarterly billing by the local ABC office and/or the city.
   (C)   Failure to pay such remittance within ten days of the due date
constitutes a violation and shall subject a licensee to suspension or
revocation.
   (D)   Penalty for failure to file a return and pay remittance by the due
date is 5% of the regulatory fee for each 90 days or fraction thereof. The
total late filing penalty shall not exceed 25% of the regulatory fee; provided,
however, that in no case shall the penalty be less than $10.
   (E)   Interest at the rate of 8% per annum will apply to any late payments.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 114.030 DISPOSITION OF FEES AND ANY OTHER TYPE OF PAYMENT TO THE CITY.
   The City ABC Administrator shall transmit all fees and any other types of
payment made to the city, upon collection, to the City Clerk or his or her
designee, for deposit into the appropriate designated account.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
CITY ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR
§ 114.045 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 241.160 and KRS 241.170, there is hereby created the
office of the City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator.
   (B)   The Mayor of the city shall appoint an employee of the city to serve
as the City Alcohol Beverage Administrator, pursuant to KRS 241.170.
   (C)   The City Alcohol Beverage Administrator may from time to time appoint
such additional personnel, such as Alcohol Beverage Control investigator(s), as
is necessary to assist him or her in the administration of this chapter.
   (D)   The functions of the City ABC Administrator shall be the same with
respect to the city licenses and regulations as the functions of the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board of the Commonwealth (hereinafter referred to as ABC
Board) with respect to state licenses and regulations.
   (E)   To prevent potential conflicts of interests, no person shall be a City
ABC Administrator, an investigator, or an employee of the city, under the
supervision of the City ABC Administrator, who would be disqualified to be a
member of the ABC Board under state law set forth in KRS 241.100.
   (F)   (1)   The City ABC Administrator shall have authority delegated by the
Mayor, and as authorized under KRS Chapters 241 to 244.
      (2)   The City ABC Administrator, and his or her investigators, shall
have jurisdiction coextensive with the boundaries of the city. They may inspect
any premises where alcoholic beverages are manufactured, sold, stored, or
otherwise trafficked in, without first obtaining a search warrant.
   (G)   The City ABC Administrator and his or her investigators shall have
available at all reasonable times for their inspection all books and records
required to be maintained by licensees under KRS 244.150, and the City ABC
Administrator shall receive copies of all reports submitted by licensee to the
state’s Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.
   (H)   (1)   The City ABC Administrator, before entering upon his or her
duties, shall take the oath as prescribed in § 228 of the Constitution and
shall execute a bond with a good corporate surety in the penal sum of not less
than $1,000.
      (2)   Any employee delegated or assigned to the ABC Administration may
also be asked to execute a similar bond in such penal sum as the city deems
necessary, unless said person is already covered under the city’s active bonds
as required under KRS in regards to officials and employees of the city.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 114.046 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals from the orders of the City ABC Administrator may be taken to
the state’s ABC Board by filing with the Board within 30 days a certified copy
of the orders of the City ABC Administrator. The Board shall hear matters at
issue as upon an original proceeding. Appeals from orders of the City ABC
Administrator shall be governed by KRS Chapter 13B.
   (B)   When any decision of the City ABC Administrator shall have been
appealed, or when a protest has been lodged against an application for any
license within the city, and the ABC Board shall have made a decision regarding
such appeal or protested application, the City ABC Administrator, upon receipt
of notice of finality of the decision, shall enter such orders and take such
action as required by the final order of the ABC Board. As provided by law, and
as used herein, no order of the ABC Board is final until all appeals or appeal
times shall have been exhausted. A “final order” of the ABC Board is the order
entered by said Board, unless an appeal is taken from the Board’s order, in
which case the “final order” is the order entered by the Board upon direction
from the reviewing court of last resort in the final order of said reviewing
court.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
APPLICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF LICENSE
§ 114.060 ADVERTISEMENT.
   Before an application for a license shall be considered, the applicant must
publish a notice of its intent to apply for an alcoholic beverage license in a
newspaper meeting the requirements of KRS Chapter 424, including the following:
   (A)   The advertisement shall state the name and address of the applicant.
It shall state the members of the partnership if the applicant is a
partnership, and membership of the LLC if the applicant is an LLC, as well as
the name of the business and its address. If the applicant is a corporation,
the advertisement shall state the names and addresses of the principal officers
and directors of the corporation, as well as the name and address of the
corporation itself. All advertisements shall state the location of the premises
for which the license is sought, and the type of license(s) for which
application is made; and
   (B)   The applicant shall attach to the application a newspaper clipping of
the advertisement and proof of the publication as provided in KRS 424.170.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 114.061 FORM OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   All licenses granted under this chapter shall be approved by the City
ABC Administrator. Applications for the issuance of new licenses and for
renewals of existing licenses shall be in writing and upon the forms provided
by the state’s ABC Board and/or the city, both of which may be amended and
supplemented from time to time by each respective agency.
   (B)   The application shall be verified and shall set forth in detail such
information concerning the applicant and the premises for which the license is
sought, as required by the Kentucky Revised Statutes, the state’s ABC Board,
and the city, including as follows:
      (1)   Name and address;
      (2)   Nature of interest;
      (3)   Whether or not a citizen of the United States;
      (4)   Date of birth;
      (5)   Date that residence was established in Kentucky, if a resident of
the state;
      (6)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any other license or
LLC, corporation, partnership, or other business organization holding a license
under this chapter;
      (7)   Extent of stock or company ownership; and
      (8)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any license or LLC,
corporation, partnership, or other business organization holding a license in
any other state or province.
   (C)   Each application shall be accompanied by a certified check, cashier
check, or money order for the amount of the license fee, less the $50
application fee.
   (D)   In addition to the above specified information, the applicant shall
file, with the application, responses to any additional questions as may be
posed or prescribed by the City ABC Administrator. The City Council has adopted
a statement of guidelines and priorities for the issuance of licenses within
this chapter to determine the extent to which applications may further, or
impede, the objectives of those guidelines. Therefore, in addition to the
information contained in the application, the City ABC Administrator may
require such other information as the Administrator may, in his or her
discretion, deem desirable, reasonable, or appropriate to the consideration of
the application.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 114.062 OTHER CONDITIONS.
   In addition to any other inquiries, conditions, or considerations required
or permitted by law:
   (A)   Building inspector approval. The City ABC Administrator shall not
grant any alcoholic beverage license or approve a renewal of a license until
the applicant and his or her place of business shall have been approved by a
licensed building inspector, and any and all other inspections required by the
state’s Building Code or other applicable law;
   (B)   Background check. All applicants shall voluntarily submit to a
criminal background check and shall sign a waiver allowing the release of this
information to the City ABC Administrator;
   (C)   Financial responsibility. No license to sell alcoholic or malt
beverages may be granted or renewed to any person who is delinquent in the
payment of any property taxes, both real and personal, any other taxes due to
the city, fees of any type, or charges due to any department of the city at the
time of issuing the license, nor may any license be granted or renewed to sell
upon any premises or property, owned and occupied by the licensee, upon which
there are any of the above delinquent payments due and owing to the city.
Further, if a licensee becomes delinquent in the payment of any of the above at
any time during the license period, the license to sell alcoholic or malt
beverages may be subject to revocation or suspension;
   (D)   Behavior toward administration. No person, whether applicant for
license or a licensee, shall in any manner attempt to bribe, threaten, unduly
influence, or intimidate the City ABC Administrator, or any member of the
city’s staff, or any State ABC Administrator or staff, in any matter in which
an application or proposed application for license, or procedure for revocation
or suspension is pending before such officer. This division is not intended to
stifle expressions of opinion; however, it is intended to make clear that the
ABC Administrators are public officials charged with the administration and
enforcement of the law, both local and state. Any person applying for a
license, or contesting the revocation or suspension of a license, who engages
in attempted bribes, threats, attempted undue influence, or intimidation of a
city or state ABC Administrator or staff, shall be disqualified from receiving
or retaining a license, in addition to other penalties as provided by law. The
procedures for appeals shall apply to disqualifications, revocations, or
suspensions under this chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to
prohibit monetary settlements in lieu of revocation or suspension of license
after a final order or revocation or suspension, where the chapter and
applicable statutes allow for such payments in settlement; and
   (E)   Mandatory responsible beverage service training.
      (1)   All persons employed in the selling and serving of alcoholic
beverages shall participate in and complete a city-approved responsible
beverage service training program. For a responsible beverage service training
program to be approved by the city, it must effectively train its participants
in the identification of false age documents and recognition of characteristics
of intoxication. The city will not require enrollment in particular classes,
but only that the training be obtained from a recognized program meeting the
goals expressed in this chapter.
      (2)   All persons required to complete training under division (E)(1)
above shall complete that training within 30 days of the date on which the
person first becomes subject to the training requirement. When a new business
is licensed to serve alcoholic beverages, all employees must be trained prior
to the opening of business.
      (3)   Each licensee shall be responsible for compliance with the training
requirements and shall maintain, for inspection by the City ABC Administrator,
a record or file on each employee that shall contain the pertinent training
information. Each premises licensed hereunder must at all times, when alcoholic
beverages are being served, have at least one person currently certified in
responsible beverage service training on duty.
      (4)   All persons completing the training required by this section shall
be re-certified in responsible beverage service training from a program
approved by the city not less than once every three years thereafter.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 114.063 FORM OF LICENSE.
   All city licenses shall be in such form as may be provided by the ABC
Administrator, but at the least shall contain:
   (A)   The name and address of the licensee;
   (B)   The number of the license;
   (C)   The type of license;
   (D)   A description by street and number, or otherwise, of the licensed
premises;
   (E)   The name and address of the owner of the building in which the
licensed premises are located;
   (F)   The expiration date of the license; and
   (G)   A statement in substance that the license shall not be a property or
vested right and that it may be revoked at any time pursuant to law.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 114.064 CHANGE OF INFORMATION.
   (A)   If after a license to individuals or to a sole proprietor has been
issued, there is a change in any fact required to be set forth in the
application, a verified amendment in writing giving notice of the change shall
be filed with the City ABC Administrator within ten days of the change.
   (B)   Since a number of licenses issued by the city are in the name of
corporations or other business organizations, it is necessary that ownership
changes in such organizations be reported to the City ABC Administrator. The
City ABC Administrator can, therefore, investigate the person to whom the
ownership or management is transferred in order to ascertain whether that
person is precluded by statute from holding an interest in an alcoholic
beverage license.
   (C)   As used with regard to a partnership, corporation, LLC, or other
business organization herein, the word “change” is construed to include any
change in managers, partners, or LLC members, directors, or officers of the
corporation, or change in ownership or stock whereby any person secures 10% of
the outstanding ownership or stock. Transfer of more than 10% of the total
ownership or stock shall require a new license.
   (D)   The following information shall be required concerning any new
manager, partner, or LLC member, new director, officer, or person securing any
interest in an alcoholic beverage license:
      (1)   Name and address;
      (2)   Nature of interest;
      (3)   Whether or not a citizen of the United States;
      (4)   Date of birth;
      (5)   Date residence was established in the state, if a resident of the
state;
      (6)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any other license or
in any LLC, corporation, partnership, or other business organization holding a
license under this Act;
      (7)   Extent of stock or company ownership; and
      (8)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any license or in any
LLC, corporation, partnership, or other business organization holding a license
in any other state or province.
   (E)   This information shall be filed with the City ABC Administrator as a
verified amendment of the application pursuant to which the license was
granted. Filing shall be made within ten days of any change of required
information.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 114.065 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every year, except in the case of the temporary licenses, each
licensee shall renew its license. All renewal licenses must be on file with the
City ABC Administrator no less than 30 days prior to the expiration of the
license for the preceding license period or the same shall be canceled, except
where the licensee is unable to continue in business at the same premises
licensed during the preceding license period as a result of construction, act
of God, casualty, death, the acquisition or threatened acquisition of the
premises by any federal, state, city, or other governmental agency or private
organization possessing power of eminent domain, whether such acquisition is
voluntary or involuntary, or loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew
exiting lease; provided that said licensee shall file a written verified
statement no less than 20 days from the expiration date of the license, setting
forth these facts, and the City ABC Administrator is hereby authorized to
extend the time for filing of a renewal of such license for a reasonable length
of time within the sound discretion of the City ABC Administrator; provided,
however, such licensee shall pay a license fee from the expiration date of the
former license or licenses. Said license fee shall not be payable until
application is made for the transfer of said license to a new location.
   (B)   The renewal by the City ABC Administrator of the license shall not be
construed to be a waiver or acceptance of any violation which occurred prior to
such renewal and shall not prevent subsequent proceedings against the licensee.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 114.066 LOST OR DESTROYED LICENSE.
   When a license shall be lost or destroyed without fault on the part of the
licensee or his or her agent or employee, a duplicate in lieu of the original
license shall be issued by the City ABC Administrator after the Administrator
shall have been satisfied as to the facts; provided, however, that the
applicant for said duplicate license shall pay a fee of $10 for the duplicate
license.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 114.067 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license may be revoked or suspended by the City ABC Administrator
if the licensee shall have violated any of other provisions of KRS Chapters 241
to 244, or any rule or regulation of the ABC Board, or of the Kentucky
Department of Revenue, relating to the regulation of the manufacture, sale, and
transportation, or taxation, of alcoholic beverages or if such licensee shall
have violated or shall violate any act of Congress or any rule or regulation of
any federal board, agency, or commission, or this chapter now, heretofore, or
hereafter in effect relating to the regulation of the manufacture, sale, and
transportation, or taxation, of intoxicating liquors, or any rules or
regulations of the city heretofore in existence or authorized by the terms of
KRS Chapters 241 to 244 to be created, irrespective of whether the licensee
knew of or permitted the violation or whether the violation was committed is
disobedience of his or her instructions, or any such license may be revoked or
suspended for any cause which the City ABC Administrator in the exercise of his
or her sound discretion deems sufficient.
   (B)   A license may be revoked for any of the reasons for which the City ABC
Administrator would have been required to refuse a license if the facts had
been known.
   (C)   In addition to the foregoing stated causes, any license may be revoked
or suspended for the following causes:
      (1)   Conviction of the licensee or his or her agent or employee for
selling any illegal beverages on the premises licensed;
      (2)   Making any false, material statements in an application for a
license;
      (3)   If within a period of two consecutive years, any licensee or any
clerk, servant, agent, or employee of the licensee shall have been convicted of
two violations of the terms and provisions of KRS Chapters 241 to 244 or any
act heretofore or hereafter in effect relating to the regulation of the
manufacture, sale, and transportation of alcoholic beverages; or if within such
period, any licensee or any clerk, servant, agent, or employee of the license
shall have twice been convicted of any felony or of any misdemeanor directly or
indirectly attributable to the use of alcoholic beverages, or of one such
felony and one such misdemeanor;
      (4)   Willful and deliberate failure or default of a licensee to pay an
excise tax or any part thereof, or any penalties imposed by or under the
provisions of any statutes, this chapter, or acts of Congress relative to
taxation or for a violation of any rules or regulations of the state’s
Department of Revenue made in pursuance thereof; or
      (5)   Setting up, conducting, operating, or keeping, on the licensed
premises, any gambling game, device, machine or contrivance, or lottery or gift
enterprise, or handbook or facility for betting or transmitting bets on horse
races; or permitting to be set up, conducted, operated, kept, or engaged in, on
the licensed premises, any such game, device, machine, contrivance, lottery,
gift enterprise, handbook, or facility.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 114.068 PROCEEDINGS FOR REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OR LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon the verified complaint of any person, or on the initiative of any
law enforcement officer, or of the City ABC Administrator, the City ABC
Administrator may institute proceedings to revoke or suspend any license
granted under this chapter. A license may be revoked or suspended only after
the licensee shall have been given written notice, by certified or registered
mail, of the proposed revocation, including notice of the reasons for such
proposed action. The licensee shall be given opportunity to be heard in
opposition to the proposed revocation or suspension. The notice of proposed
action shall advise the licensee of the date, time, and place of the hearing.
Notice shall be sufficient if mailed to the licensee at the address shown in
the last application for a license or in the last statement supplemental to or
in amendment of the application, whether or not the mailing is receipted for or
claimed.
   (B)   The specific procedures to be followed in hearings on actions for
revocation or suspension shall be those set out in the state’s Administrative
Procedure Act (KAR Chapter 13B).
   (C)   A decision of the City ABC Administrator revoking or suspending a
license may be appealed as provided in KRS 243.550.
   (D)   Within three days after any order of revocation or suspension of a
license becomes final, notice of revocation shall be given to the licensee and
to the owner of the licensed premises. A notice mailed to the licensee and to
the owner of the licensed premises at the address shown in the last application
for a license or in the last statement supplemental to the application shall be
deemed sufficient compliance with this section. The licensee shall at once
surrender his or her license to the City ABC Administrator. If the revoked or
suspended license is not forthwith surrendered by the licensee, the Chief of
Police, at the request of the City ABC Administrator, shall immediately cause
one of his or her officers to take physical possession of the license and
return it to the City ABC Administrator.
   (E)   When a license has been revoked or suspended, the former licensee may,
with prior approval of the City ABC Administrator, dispose of and transfer his
or her stock of alcoholic beverages to an appropriate entity.
   (F)   Appeal from the decision of the City ABC Administrator revoking or
suspending a license shall be to the ABC Board. The timely filing of an appeal
shall stay further proceedings for revocation.
   (G)   If a license is revoked or suspended by an order of the City ABC
Administrator, and the decision is not appealed, the licensee shall at once
suspend all operations authorized under his or her license. Upon the entry of a
final order of the ABC Board sustaining or ordering revocation or suspension on
appeal, the licensee shall at once suspend all operations authorized under this
license.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 114.069 REFUSAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The City ABC Administrator may refuse to issue a license for any of
the following reasons:
      (1)   Causes for refusal to issue or renew a license and for suspension
or revocation of a city license shall be the same as provided for state
licenses according to KRS 243.450, 243.490, and 243.500, as well as violation
of any city ordinance regarding alcohol beverage licensing, sales, or the
administration thereof;
      (2)   If the applicant has done any act for which a revocation of license
would be authorized under local, state, or federal law; or
      (3)   If the applicant has made any false material statement in his or
her application.
   (B)   An applicant who has been refused a license by the City ABC
Administrator may appeal the refusal to the ABC Board pursuant to KRS 241.200.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 114.070 REVIEW OF LICENSE; BOOKS, RECORDS, AND REPORTS.
   (A)   Applicants to whom a license is issued pursuant to this chapter shall
provide periodic information demonstrating compliance with the conditions of
any license, such as, but not limited to, the continuing requirement that a
minimum percentage of the applicant’s business income is earned from the sale
of food. This documentation shall be provided on a schedule to be coordinated
with the applicant’s quarterly regulatory fee filings. The city shall provide
the form schedule to the licensee. The licensee’s acceptance of a license to
manufacture or traffic in alcoholic beverages shall constitute consent to the
filing of the quarterly report. In the case of caterer filing, the quarterly
report shall identity each catered event by type of event, date, and address of
the event, and shall provide a per event breakdown of sales and the ratio of
food sales to alcohol sales during the reporting period. This requirement for
filing of reports notwithstanding, the city may at any time come upon the
premises of any licensee and examine the books and records to determine whether
the licensee is in compliance with all parts of this chapter. In the event the
conditions of any license requirement are not met during any particular
quarter, the City ABC Administrator shall have discretion in determining
whether revocation is appropriate or whether the licensee may be allowed a
reasonable period of time to reach compliance. If a good faith effort is
demonstrated by the licensee, the City ABC Administrator may apply an
accounting period of at least one year in determining whether or not the food
sale percentage requirement has been met.
   (B)   Every licensee under this chapter shall keep and maintain, upon the
licensed premises, adequate books and records of all transactions involved in
the sale of alcoholic beverages in the same manner required by the rules and
regulations of the ABC Board. Such books and records shall be available at all
reasonable times for inspection by the City ABC Administrator and such city
employees who may assist the City ABC Administrator in his or her review.
   (C)   For the purpose of assisting the City ABC Administrator in enforcement
of this chapter, every licensee required to report to the ABC Board under KRS
243.850 shall provide a copy of such report to the City ABC Administrator.
Copies of any and all reports and correspondences to the ABC Board required by
statute shall be furnished to the City ABC Administrator.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 114.071 DORMANCY.
   (A)   It is necessary that a licensee actually conduct the business
authorized by such a license or else the license will be declared dormant and
become null and void after 90 days. Such is the intent of this section.
Realizing that a licensee, like other business, may have his or her business
interrupted by situations not under his or her control, various exceptions to
the dormancy rule have been included in this section.
   (B)   Any license under which no business is transacted during a period of
90 days shall be deemed inactive and, unless the conditions set forth in
division (C) below are proved to the satisfaction of the City ABC
Administrator, the license shall be surrendered to the City ABC Administrator.
If the license is not voluntarily surrendered, it shall be revoked by the City
ABC Administrator.
   (C)   The provisions of division (B) hereof shall not apply to any licensee
who is unable to continue in business at the premises for which a license is
issued due to construction, an act of God, casualty, death, the acquisition of
the premises by any federal, state, city, or other governmental agency under
power of eminent domain, whether acquisition is voluntary or involuntary, or
loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew existing lease. Prior to the
expiration of 90 days of inactivity, such licensee shall furnish to the City
ABC Administrator a verified statement setting forth the fact that the licensee
is unable to continue in business, for any of the specific reasons set forth
herein, and the City ABC Administrator may grant an extension of the dormancy
with the license continuing to remain in effect during the license period or
until same is transferred to another premises, notwithstanding the fact that no
business is transacted during said period; provided, however, no such license
shall be considered valid unless business is conducted thereunder within 12
months from the date of notice to the City ABC Administrator. Such extension
may not extend beyond the renewal date but may be for such times as the City
ABC Administrator deems appropriate in exercise of his or her sound discretion.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
CONDITIONS, PROHIBITIONS, AND RESTRICTIONS
§ 114.085 GAMBLING.
   No gambling or game of chance unless otherwise authorized by the
Commonwealth shall be permitted in any form on such licensed premises. Dice,
slot machines, quarter pushers, prize redemption machines with programmable
payouts, or any device of chance is prohibited and shall not be kept on such
premises.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.086 RADIO RECEIVING APPARATUS.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee licensed under this chapter to have or
maintain any radio receiving apparatus on such premises which is intentionally
adjusted so as to receive police messages broadcast from any law enforcement
agency in Bell County as it is now or may hereafter be operated. In addition to
other penalties provided for the violation of this section, the Chief of Police
or the City ABC Administrator, or his or her designated investigator, shall
have the authority to confiscate any and all such radio receiving apparatus.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.087 SECURITY.
   The licensee shall be responsible for maintaining security on his or her
premises including providing adequate outside lighting to permit customers to
utilize the parking area and to promote the safety, health, and welfare of the
general public utilizing the licensed premises. Security standards are further
necessary to discourage unlawful activity in and around the licensed premises.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 114.088 PRIZES AND PREMIUMS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a licensee to give away or offer to give away
anything tangible of value as a premium or prize, or for any other purpose in
direct connection with the sale of malt beverages unless permitted by KRS
244.500.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.089 TREATING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the licensee under this chapter to give away any
alcoholic beverage in any quantity for free or for less than a full monetary
consideration unless the licensee holds a sampling license or its license type
permits limited free samples (i.e., small farm winery, microbrewery, brewery)
or products sampled at educational event authorized by 804 KAR 1:110 and 804
KAR 11:030.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.090 DRUNKENNESS.
   (A)   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall permit any
person to become drunk or intoxicated on the premises, nor shall any licensee
sell alcoholic beverages to any person who is actually or apparently under the
influence of alcoholic beverages, or known to the seller or server to be an
habitual drunkard or any person known to the seller or server to have been
convicted of drunkenness as many as three times within the most recent 12-month
period.
   (B)   No licensee shall permit any person who is actually or apparently
under the influence of alcoholic beverages to remain on the licensed premises.
As used herein, whether a person is actually or apparently under the influence
of alcoholic beverages shall be determined by the licensee or server with
specific reference to the principles and guidelines established in mandatory
alcohol server training as to the signs of alcohol intoxication.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.091 UNDERAGE SALES.
   The licensee shall not sell or dispense alcoholic beverages to any person
who is under 21 years of age.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.092 SIGN REQUIREMENTS; NOTICE TO PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 21.
   (A)   Per state law, the licensee shall display at all times in a prominent
place a sign at least eight inches by 11 inches in 30 point or larger type font
which states as follows.
   (B)   Persons under the age of 21 are subject to a fine of up to $100 if
they:
      (1)   Enter licensed premises to buy, or have served to them, alcoholic
beverages;
      (2)   Possess, purchase, or attempt to purchase, or get another to
purchase alcoholic beverages; and/or
      (3)   Misrepresent their age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.093 LICENSE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the requirements set forth in KRS 243.895, the licensee,
before commencing any business for which a license has been issued, shall post
and display at all times in a conspicuous place in the room or principal room
where the business is carried on so that all persons visiting the place may
readily see the license. The licensee shall not at any time post the license on
premises other than the licensed premises or upon premises where traffic in
alcoholic beverages is being carried on by any person other than the licensee,
or knowingly deface, destroy, or alter the license in any respect.
   (B)   The licensee shall post in a prominent place easily seen by patrons a
printed sign at least 11 inches by 14 inches in size, with letters at least one
inch high, supplied by the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control, and with
gender-neutral language supplied by the Kentucky Cabinet for Health and Family
Services, which shall warn that drinking alcoholic beverages prior to
conception or during pregnancy can cause birth defects.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.094 LEGAL TRANSACTIONS FOR WHOLESALERS, DISTRIBUTORS, AND RETAIL.
   No wholesaler or distributor shall sell any alcoholic beverages to any
person in the city for any consideration except under cash terms of the
wholesaler or distributor at or before the time of delivery. A wholesaler is
also permitted to extend credit for 30 days to a retailer for the purchase of
distilled spirits and wine. No retail licensee shall sell to a consumer for any
consideration except for cash or cash equivalent at time of purchase.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.095 EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS.
   No licensee shall knowingly employ in connection with his or her business
any person who:
   (A)   Has been convicted of any felony within the last two years, unless
permitted by KRS 244.090(2);
   (B)   Has been twice convicted of any misdemeanor or offense directly or
indirectly attributable to the use of intoxicating liquors within the last two
years, unless permitted by KRS 244.090(2);
   (C)   Is under the age of 20 years who will be serving alcoholic beverages
or who will be having any contact whatsoever with the sale of alcohol as
defined under state statute, unless said person is exempt or permitted by KRS
244.090; or
   (D)   Within two years prior to the date of his or her employment, has had
any city license under this chapter revoked for cause.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.096 LAVATORY FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   All retail beer and retail drink licenses shall be required to provide
indoor or outdoor lavatory facilities for their customers where such beverages
are consumed on the premises.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 114.097 NUDITY AND ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No licensee shall offer or permit nudity, adult entertainment
activities, including nude or nearly nude dancing, adult motion picture,
television, slide or stage shows, cabarets, or sexual entertainment centers on
any licensed premises.
   (B)   No licensee shall permit explicit sexual activity, whether actual or
simulated, upon any licensed premises. No licensee shall sponsor or permit wet
t-shirt or wet clothing contests, lingerie fashion shows, mud wrestling, jello
wrestling, or similar activities, nor shall a licensee allow dancing with
touching for compensation (including, but not limited to, wages, tips, or
gratuities), or any other service, display, or contest requiring physical
contact between patrons and/or patrons and employees on any licensed premises.
   (C)   No licensee shall sponsor, offer, or permit drinking contests, all-
you-can-drink specials, or free drinks on any licensed premises in the city.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.098 CAUSE FOR REVOCATION.
   Violation of this and any other section shall subject the licensee to
penalties provided in this chapter and shall be cause for revocation or
suspension of city licenses.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 114.099 MINORS.
   (A)   Except as specifically authorized under KRS Chapters 241 to 244, no
person under the age of 21 may possess alcoholic beverages or enter onto any
licensed premises for the purpose of acquiring alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   As provided in KRS 244.085, no person under the age of 21, except in
the company of a parent or guardian, may enter any premises licensed for the
package sale of alcoholic beverages. No person under the age of 21 may enter
any premises licensed for drink sales of alcoholic beverages unless permitted
by KRS 244.085(6). For purposes of this prohibition, “premises” specifically
encompasses the entire lot upon which a licensed establishment is situated,
including any drive-up window. The prohibition contained in this division (B)
shall not apply to premises where the usual and customary business of the
establishment is a gas station, convenience store, grocery store, drugstore, or
similar establishment.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly permit, aid, assist induce, cause, or
otherwise encourage any minor to be in possession of, use, or consume alcoholic
beverages. All licenses, as set out in this chapter, shall require proof of age
of all persons attempting to purchase or consume alcoholic beverages on the
licensee’s premises.
   (D)   No person being the owner or occupant or otherwise in possession or
control of any property located within the city shall knowingly allow any minor
to remain on such property while in possession of, using, or consuming
alcoholic beverages.
   (E)   It shall be a defense to any prosecution under this section if the
person charged, upon discovery of said minor individuals, manifests a proper
effort to enlist the aid of and cooperate with law enforcement personnel in
stopping the minor individuals’ possession, consumption, or use of alcoholic
beverages, or that the minor individuals’ possession of alcoholic beverages was
exempted by KRS 244.090.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.100 CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Consumption at package store prohibited.
      (1)   No licensee of a package store, whether trafficking in distilled
spirits, wine, or malt beverages, shall permit consumption of alcoholic
beverages on the premises unless it also holds the appropriate drink license.
The licensee shall post a prominent notice on the premises stating that
consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises is prohibited.
      (2)   This restriction regarding on-premises consumption shall not
prohibit sampling as allowed for microbreweries and wineries under the
provisions of KRS Chapter 243, or where sampling is permitted for a retail
distilled spirits and wine licensee under the provisions of KRS 244.050, or
beer tastings as permitted in 804 KAR 11:030.
   (B)   Habitual congregating.
      (1)   Definitions. In addition to the definitions contained in KRS
Chapters 241 to 244, as used in this subchapter, the following terms are
defined as follows.
         (a)   HABITUAL. Consistent, that is, by frequent practice or use, but
not necessarily constant or exclusive.
         (b)   PACKAGE LIQUOR STORE. A retail establishment selling distilled
spirits, wine, and malt beverages in package containers pursuant to licenses
issued for those purposes.
         (c)   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any activity that endangers or interferes with
the general use and enjoyment of neighboring property, passersby or the health,
safety, and welfare of the public.
      (2)   Licensed premises. No person or entity operating a package liquor
store, whether trafficking in distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages,
including retail package beer licensees, shall knowingly allow or permit
habitual congregating of persons on the unenclosed portion of the licensed
premises so as to constitute a public nuisance.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.101 MALT BEVERAGE KEG REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Definition. As used in this section, KEG is defined as a container
designed and capable of holding six or more gallons of malt beverage.
   (B)   Malt beverage keg identification tag. All retail licensees (herein
after referred to as “licensee”) operating within the city who sell malt
beverages in kegs for consumption off the premises of the licensee shall attach
a numbered identification tag or other device as provided by the city to each
keg at the time of sale and shall require the purchaser to complete and sign a
keg registration form for the keg stating the following:
      (1)   The purchaser is of legal age to purchase, possess, and use the
malt beverage;
      (2)   The purchaser is not purchasing the keg for resale and will not
allow any person under the age of 21 to consume the malt beverage;
      (3)   The purchaser will not remove, obliterate, or allow to be removed
or obliterated, the identification tag;
      (4)   The purchaser will state the property address where the keg will be
consumed and physically located; and
      (5)   The purchaser is aware of his or her duty to maintain a copy of the
keg registration form visible and readily accessible from the location of the
keg.
   (C)   Keg registration.
      (1)   The licensee shall obtain the name, address, and telephone number
of the purchaser and shall require the purchaser to produce a valid driver’s
license number and, if that is not available, to produce at least one other
valid form of identification.
      (2)   The licensee shall retain copies of the keg registration forms for
a period of one year and shall make the keg registration form available for
inspection by state and local alcoholic beverage control officers and other
enforcement officers.
      (3)   The keg registration form shall be forwarded to the city within
five working days in all situations when the keg is not returned or is returned
with the identification tag removed or obliterated.
      (4)   The city is authorized to develop appropriate rules and regulations
and to develop and make available forms for the identification tags and keg
registration forms.
      (5)   All licensees that sell or offer for sale kegs shall post on the
licensed premises a notice provided by the city concerning the provisions of
this section.
   (D)   Unlawful sales.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell, or offer for sale,
kegs without the identification tags attached and the keg registration form
completed.
      (2)   It shall also be unlawful for any person to remove or to obliterate
the identification tag or to fail to have the declaration form visible and
readily accessible from the location of the keg.
      (3)   The penalties for violation of this section shall be the penalties
as set out in this chapter. In addition, licensees violating this section shall
be subject to appropriate alcoholic beverage control administrative remedies.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.102 ENFORCEMENT.
   City police officers and the City ABC Administrator and his or her
investigator(s) are hereby authorized to enforce this chapter in full.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 114.103 SIGNS AND ADVERTISING.
   (A)   All signage shall be in compliance with any and all other existing
rules, regulations, and ordinances of the city, including, but not limited to,
the planning and zoning ordinance as currently enacted, and/or as may be
amended in the future.
   (B)   No flashing lights shall be used to illuminate the exterior of any
premises licensed under this chapter.
   (C)   Any advertising by any licensee under this chapter shall be in
compliance with KRS 244.130 and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   (D)   No licensee shall publish or display advertising that is false or
misleading, nor shall any licensee publish or display advertising that implies
that consumption of alcoholic beverages is fashionable or the accepted course
of behavior, or advertising that contains any statement, picture, or
illustration implying that the consumption of alcoholic beverages enhances
athletic prowess, whether or not any known athlete is depicted or referred to,
nor shall any licensee publish or display advertising that encourages
intoxication by referring to the intoxicating effects of alcohol (or the use of
terms such as “high test”, “high proof”, or “extra strong”) or depicting
activities that tend to encourage excessive consumption.
   (E)   No licensee shall erect, or allow to be erected, any banner that
displays any particular brand of alcoholic beverage on the outside of the
building or on the property.
   (F)   Any off-premises signage advertising the sale of alcoholic beverages
is prohibited. It shall be unlawful to attach signage advertising alcoholic
beverages to the exterior of the building or the exterior premises of the
business.
   (G)   Signage which refers directly or indirectly to alcoholic beverages
will be limited to one sign not over two square feet that must be displayed
from the inside of the window or interior of the business. No additional signs,
banners, posters, or other type of displaying advertising which refers either
directly or indirectly to alcoholic beverages shall be displayed on, nor shall
it be visible from the exterior of any premises licensed for the sale of
alcoholic beverages, except that reference to such may be included in the name
of the business. This restriction shall not prevent any licensee from placing
in the windows of the licensed premises business cards not larger than two and
one-half inches in size, setting forth the price at which the licensee offers
alcoholic beverages for sale.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this chapter to distribute
or cause to be distributed any handbills, circulars, or cards as a medium of
advertising alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.104 PATIO AND OUTDOOR SALES.
   (A)   Patio and outdoor sales regulations.
      (1)   Patio and outdoor sales of alcoholic beverages shall be permitted
only on premises licensed for sales of alcoholic beverages by the drink.
      (2)   No licensee shall offer alcoholic beverages for sale in a patio or
outdoor area of the licensee’s premises except in a clearly defined patio or
outdoor area that is enclosed by a fence or other screening, not less than four
feet in height. All outdoor areas and screening shall be subject to the
approval of the City ABC Administrator. An exception to this restriction may be
granted for seasonal sidewalk cafés, upon application to and authorization from
the City ABC Administrator. The permission to operate a sidewalk café shall be
governed by the provisions of this subchapter and shall be subject to the
regulation of local zoning authorities as well as codes enforcement and public
safety officers.
      (3)   No licensee shall offer patio or outdoor sales of alcoholic
beverages unless the patio or outdoor area and fencing or screening area shall
have been approved in advance by the ABC Administrator.
   (B)   Exception(s) to screening requirements for outdoor sales and service
of alcoholic beverages, specifically, permitted sidewalk cafés in the city’s
downtown business area.
      (1)   Licensees in the downtown business district/area may request an
exception from the outdoor screening of patio provision in order to permit
seasonal sidewalk cafés that serve food and alcoholic beverages as an adjunct
to the primary and adjacent licensed premises. In the case of permitted
sidewalk cafés, they shall be deemed part of the licensed premises.
      (2)   Any food establishment which operates a restaurant and is licensed
under this chapter and the provisions of the state’s ABC Code, may, upon
application to the local ABC Administrator, ask permission to expand the
operation of that restaurant on to a part, and only that part, of the public
sidewalk which immediately adjoins the licensed premises (hereinafter referred
to as “sidewalk café”). Licensees who do not serve food shall not be eligible
to apply for a sidewalk café permit.
   (C)   Conditions for sidewalk café permit. The issuance of a permit shall be
subject to the following conditions and restrictions; provided, however, that
the ABC Administrator may without adverse hearing procedures impose additional
reasonable restrictions or withdraw approval upon the operation of any sidewalk
café where necessary in the judgment of the said Administrator to protect the
public health, safety, or welfare or to prevent a nuisance from developing or
continuing.
      (1)   No sidewalk café shall be permitted in any portion of the public
sidewalk where normal pedestrian traffic flow is obstructed. A minimum
clearance width of 36 inches must be maintained on the public sidewalk at all
times. The sidewalk café shall not be permitted in any manner to obstruct the
entrance/exit to the restaurant.
      (2)   No umbrellas, table displays, or other items owned by the
restaurant shall be placed in the area used for the sidewalk café during any
period when the sidewalk café is not open and being operated. They shall be
removed at the end of each business day at the hour specified in the permit.
Umbrellas, tables, chairs, and other portable appurtenances shall be confined
to the area shown on the approved permit. While such café is in operation, all
tables and chairs shall be kept in a clean, sanitary condition.
      (3)   The use of a portion of the public sidewalk as a sidewalk café
shall not be an exclusive use. All public improvements, including, but not
limited to, trees, light poles, traffic signals, pull boxes or manholes, or any
public-initiated maintenance procedures, shall take precedence over said use of
the public sidewalk at all times.
      (4)   The licensee shall, in addition to all other requirements of law,
take reasonable steps to ensure that alcoholic beverages are consumed only by
patrons of the establishment who are of age, and not by passersby or persons
who are not of age or who are obviously or apparently intoxicated.
      (5)   The licensee must at all times comply with all federal, state, and
local laws regarding the sale, service, and consumption of alcohol and the
operation of the premises.
      (6)   The permit for sidewalk café may not be assigned or transferred.
   (D)   Other requirements applicable to sidewalk cafés. No sidewalk café
permit shall be effective unless the licensee has filed with the City
Administrator evidence of insurance, insuring the licensee against liability
imposed by law arising out of the ownership, maintenance, or operation of such
sidewalk café, in an amount to be established by the City Attorney and the
city’s Safety Coordinator. The city shall be named an additional insured in the
policy required. Such insurance policy shall further provide expressly that it
may not be canceled except upon ten days’ written notice (or more) filed with
the ABC Administrator and the City Attorney.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.105 HOURS FOR SALE AND DELIVERY.
   (A)   A licensee licensed to sell alcoholic beverages by the drink shall be
permitted to sell or dispense alcoholic beverages between the hours of 6:00
a.m. on each day of the week and 12:00 a.m. of the following day (excluding
Sunday, at which alcoholic beverages are permitted to be sold or dispensed at
1:00 p.m. and until 12:00 a.m. of the following day). An extended sales license
is available and permits the licensee to serve alcoholic beverages until 2:00
a.m. of the following day.
   (B)   Retail alcohol package sales shall be permitted from 6:00 a.m. until
midnight each day of the week, except that such package sales shall not be
permitted during the hours of 12:00 midnight and 1:00 p.m. on Sunday. An
extended sales license is available and permits retail package sales of
alcoholic beverages until 2:00 a.m. of the following day.
   (C)   Special license required for Sunday sales. No licensee shall offer
alcoholic beverages for sale at any time between 12:00 midnight on Sunday and
12:00 midnight on Monday unless the licensee shall have obtained a special
license for Sunday sales.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016) Penalty, see §
114.999
ENTERTAINMENT DESTINATION CENTER
§ 114.120 ENTERTAINMENT DESTINATION CENTER.
   (A)   The city is hereby establishing an Entertainment Destination Center in
order to aid economic growth in tourism in the city. The geographical
boundaries of the Entertainment Destination Center are all of the area that
lies within and adjacent to the following description:
      From the intersection of Cherry Street and Virginia Avenue, west on
Virginia Avenue to the intersection of Oak Street and Virginia Avenue, south on
Oak Street to the intersection of Oak Street and Tennessee Avenue, east on
Tennessee Avenue to the intersection of Cherry Street and Tennessee Avenue,
north on Cherry Street to the intersection of Cherry Street and Virginia
Avenue.
   (B)   The city shall apply for an Entertainment Destination Center license.
Businesses located within the Entertainment Destination Center that sell
alcoholic beverages shall hold the necessary alcoholic beverage license or
licenses for its premises. Licensees within or adjacent to the Entertainment
Destination Center may sell alcoholic beverages from one or more non-permanent
locations within any common area within the Entertainment Destination Center if
the licensee holds a supplemental bar license for each non-permanent location
and the licensee holds written permission for these sales by the city. Written
permission will be granted by the City ABC Administrator after a determination
that the requirements listed in 804 KAR 4:370 have been met. If permission is
denied by the City ABC Administrator for sale in a common area, the licensee
may file an appeal of the decision to the Mayor and City Council who will
determine at its next meeting following the appeal whether to uphold or
overturn the decision of the City ABC Administrator.
   (C)   Patrons may leave the premises of businesses that sell alcoholic
beverages with alcoholic beverage drinks and consume those drinks at other
licensed premises or any Entertainment Destination Center common area if the
city possesses the common area, provides adequate security for the common area,
ensures that the public streets are controlled in a manner that ensures public
safety and pedestrian protection from vehicular traffic, and has granted
written permission for the conduct. Patrons are prohibited from taking
alcoholic beverages outside the physical boundaries of the Entertainment
Destination Center.
   (D)   Any drinks that are removed from the premises shall be in a clear cup
with the logo or name of the alcohol vendor on the cup.
(Ord. passed 5-28-2020)
§ 114.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to any criminal prosecution instituted in Bell District
Court against an alleged violator, the City ABC Administrator may assess civil
fines in lieu of suspension as authorized in KRS 243.480, including the per
diem assessments for ongoing violations. Payment of all fines shall be remitted
to the City ABC Administrator, who shall then transmit the fines to the City
Clerk for deposit in the appropriate designated account.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter, for which no other penalty is hereby provided, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor, and subject to prosecution in the Bell County Court System, as
follows: for the first offense, be fined not less than $100 nor more than $200
nor more than $500, or imprisoned for not more than six months, or both. The
penalties provided for in this division (B) shall be in addition to the
revocation or suspension of the offender’s license. If the offender is a
corporation, LLC, joint stock company, association, or other business
organization, or a fiduciary, the principal officer, or officers responsible
for the violation may be imprisoned.
   (C)   A person who violates §
114.093 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $10, nor more than $50.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
CHAPTER 115: MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
Section
   
115.01   Purpose
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   Mobile Food Vendors Committee
   
115.04   Permit and license required for yearly operation
   
115.05   Application for permit
   
115.06   Application, license, and permit fees
   
115.07   General rules and regulations
   
115.08   Prohibition against the transfer of a permit and/or license
   
115.09   Enforcement
   
115.10   Denial, revocation, suspension of permit and/or business license
   
115.11   Appeals to Committee upon denial, revocation, or suspension
   
115.12   Service of notice
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The general purpose of these regulations is to promote the health,
safety, comfort, convenience, prosperity, and general welfare of the citizens
of the city by requiring that new and existing mobile food vehicles and vendors
provide patrons and customers with a level of cleanliness, quality, and safety.
   (B)   It is also the intent of these regulations to establish reasonable
guidelines and restrictions for mobile food vendors and relationships to
established restaurant businesses and encourage the safe and convenient use of
the city’s rights-of-way and other properties.
(Ord. passed 6-25-2018)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED DESIGNATED ZONES. Any city- owned parking lot.
   FOOD SERVICE WORKER. A person who works for or under the direction of, on
behalf of, or as an agent of a food vehicle permittee and/or owner.
   MOBILE FOOD VEHICLE. A unit mounted on a or pulled by a self-propelled
vehicle where food for individual portion service is prepared, or dispensed; is
self-contained with its own drinking water tank and waste water tank including
prepackaged food; is designed to be readily movable; and is moved daily to
return to its commissary.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDOR.
      (1)   Any other mobile food vendor not defined as a mobile food vehicle
including a non-self-propelled mobile food unit that are lightweight enough,
designed, and intended to be moved by one person.
      (2)   A mobile food vendor can only be used to prepare and serve only:
         (a)   Non-potentially hazardous foods such as popcorn, lemonade, soft
drinks, hot dogs, or flavored ice; or
         (b)   Food pre-wrapped at the commissary and maintained at the
required temperatures.
(Ord. passed 6-25-2018)
§ 115.03 MOBILE FOOD VENDORS COMMITTEE.
   (A)   There shall be within the city a Mobile Food Vendors Committee
consisting of the Mayor, City Clerk, and Special Projects Coordinator for the
purpose of reviewing applications for mobile food vending permits, approval of
the locations for operation, and establishing rules and regulations as
appropriate.
   (B)   At its sole discretion, the Mobile Food Vendors Committee may limit
the number of designated food zones within the city, to address the health,
safety, comfort, convenience, prosperity, and general welfare of the citizens
of the city.
(Ord. passed 6-25-2018)
§ 115.04 PERMIT AND LICENSE REQUIRED FOR YEARLY OPERATION.
   (A)   All mobile food vehicles and vendors must submit an application for a
permit yearly to the City Clerk. The dual application will then be forwarded to
the Mobile Food Vendors Committee for review.
   (B)   The grant of a permit may be subject to a monthly rotation of any
designated “food zones” within the city.
   (C)   Although a permit allows for the operation of the food vehicles
throughout the city limits, the permittee’s activity must occur in an area that
is zoned for that type of an activity.
   (D)   Upon proper licensing and permitting, in full accordance with this
chapter, all food truck vendors will be permitted access to city designated
zones (i.e., public parking lots). The city reserves the right to close these
zones temporarily at its discretion if necessary for maintenance and special
events.
   (E)   No location within the city shall be approved that is within 500 feet
of any existing restaurant during hours of operation of the existing
restaurant.
   (F)   The applicant shall notify the City Clerk within 15 days of any
changes to application information.
   (G)   The Mobile Food Vendors Committee shall not approve or re-approve a
location where, in its sole discretion, a mobile food vehicle and/or mobile
food vendor would substantially obstruct a public right-of- way, impair the
movement of pedestrians or vehicles, or pose a hazard to public safety.
Further, the Committee shall not approve or re-approve a location where, in its
sole discretion, there is not adequate parking to serve the prospective
permittees customers. It is recognized by the Council that parking in the
downtown commercial area is limited and the location of mobile food vehicles or
mobile food vendors competes with valuable parking spaces for which property
owners compete and no permit will be issued for the downtown area except as
approved by the Committee as part of a public festival or event.
   (H)   The Mobile Food Vendors Committee shall not approve any location which
is adjacent to a bus stop, taxi stand, or handicap loading zone or directly in
front of a property entry way.
   (I)   The grant of a permit hereunder shall not be deemed to authorize the
conducting of mobile food vehicles and/or mobile vendors without the payment of
the fee for a business license as is required under the current occupational
license fee code. The permittee must subsequently obtain a business license
from the City Clerk.
   (J)   Permits may be revoked immediately upon nonpayment of any occupational
license fee or returns required by the occupations license fee code.
   (K)   The city does not believe that it is in the best interest of the city
or its citizens to allow mobile food vehicles or mobile food vendors to operate
on city streets, roads, highways, or rights-of-way and the Mobile Food Vendors
Committee shall not issue any permits for these areas unless specifically
approved by the city in connection with a public festival or event.
(Ord. passed 6-25-2018) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.05 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   A single permit application shall be accepted and deemed complete on a
first-come, first-served basis. At the time of submission of a completed
application the following materials must also be submitted:
      (1)   Each owner of a mobile food vehicle and/or mobile food vendor shall
be required to provide a valid copy of all necessary licenses, permits, or
other written proof of compliance with the regulations of the Bell County
Health Department for each mobile food vehicle and/or mobile food vendor; and
      (2)   Each owner of a mobile food vehicle or mobile food vendor shall be
required to obtain an occupational license issued by the city immediately
following notification of permit approval. A valid copy of the occupational
license will be included in permit records.
   (B)   Each permit application shall indicate on its face, the following:
      (1)   The applicant’s full name, signature, address, and whether the
applicant is an individual, firm, or corporation, and, if a partnership, the
names of the partners, together with their addresses:
         (a)   The applicant must list the names of all food service workers
that will operate the mobile food vehicle(s);
         (b)   The address of its commissary; and
         (c)   A photograph of owner/applicant, e.g., driver’s license,
passport, or similar.
      (2)   The applicant must specify all locations that he or she desires to
operate in, whether a designated food zone (i.e., public parking lot) within
the city or if the operation is on private property, or both;
      (3)   A photograph or accurate description of the mobile food vehicle and
or pushcart, including the following data: the make, model, and type of body;
the number of cylinders; the vehicle identification number or any identifying
number as may be required by the Mobile Food Vendors Committee. (If this
information if not known at the time of permit application, this requirement
can be satisfied as a condition of obtaining a final effective permit.) The
mobile food vehicle must be duly licensed as required by the commonwealth and
have proof of the required motor vehicle insurance and registration;
      (4)   A statement as to whether the application is for new permit,
renewal of an existing permit, a change in hours of operation, or the addition
of a "food zone" location(s);
      (5)   A statement that the applicant or any of its food service workers
has not been convicted of any crime that involves any local, state, or federal
law or regulation arising out of the operation of a similar business;
      (6)   A statement that the applicant or any of its food service workers
has not been convicted of a crime as a result of having perpetrated deceptive
practices upon the public within the last ten years;
      (7)   A signed statement that the applicant shall hold harmless the city
and its officers and employees, and shall indemnify the city, its officers, and
employees for any claims for damage to property or injury to persons which may
be occasioned by an activity carried on under the terms of the permit if the
permit is for operation on public property or right-of- way. The permittee
shall furnish and maintain such public liability, food products liability, and
property damage insurance as will protect vendor, property owners, and the city
from all claims for damage to property or bodily injury, including death, which
may arise from the operations under the permit or in connection therewith. Such
insurance shall provide coverage of not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence,
with the city listed as an additional insured. A copy of the same shall be
attached with the application before a license is issued. The policy shall
further provide that it may not be cancelled except upon 30 days’ written
notice served upon the city. A permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this
section shall be invalid at any time the insurance required herein is not
maintained and evidence of continuing coverage is not filed with the city; and
      (8)   Such other additional information required by law, rule, ordinance,
or that any department of the city, Mobile Food Vendors Committee, City
Council, or information reasonably deemed appropriate to assist the city in
determining whether the permit should be granted. The applicant shall be
provided reasonable time to supplement the application.
   (C)   The provisions of this section may be waived, suspended, or delegated
to a festival or special event Committee authorized by the city.
(Ord. passed 6-25-2018) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.06 APPLICATION, LICENSE, AND PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Each applicant shall maintain an occupational license and timely file
all occupational license fee returns and reports as required by the city code
and promptly pay all occupational license fee taxes when due. Additionally, all
permittees shall comply with the city’s restaurant tax ordinance, timely filing
all reports when due, and paying all taxes when due.
   (B)   The provisions of this section may be waived, suspended, or delegated
to a festival or special event Committee authorized by the city.
(Ord. passed 6-25-2018) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.07 GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person or business entity, including religious or charitable
organization, shall operate a mobile food vehicle and/or mobile food vending
upon the public right-of-way within the city without a permit issued by the
city hereunder.
   (B)   Hours of operation shall be limited to the hours between 10:00 a.m. to
9:00 p.m., Sunday through Friday. Hours of operation shall be adjusted by the
Mobile Food Vendors Committee at the Committee’s discretion. It shall be
unlawful to leave any approved mobile food vehicle unattended on a public
right-of-way, nor remain on a public or private property outside of these
allowed hours of operation.
   (C)   No mobile food vehicle or mobile food vending shall occur within 500
feet of any existing restaurant during hours of operation of that existing
restaurant. Mobile food vehicles and/or mobile food vendors shall not operate
within 1,000 feet of any fair, stadium, carnival, circus, festival, special
event, civic event, or other like event that is licensed or sanctioned by the
city, unless they are authorized participants in such event.
   (D)   The permit may contain additional limitations on hours and days that
the Mobile Food Committee determines are appropriate, including limitations to
prevent conflict with special events.
   (E)   No mobile food vehicle and/or mobile food vendor shall use or maintain
any outside sound amplifying equipment, lights (other than nonmoving or
flashing sign lights), or noisemakers, such as bells, horns, or whistles or
similar devices to attract customers. A mobile food vehicle and/or vendor may
use battery operated lights with appropriate protective shields for the purpose
of illuminating merchandise.
   (F)   With the exception of trash bin receptacles, no mobile food vehicle or
vendor shall use external signage, seating, or any other equipment not
contained within the vehicle on the public sidewalks where their permit
authorizes use of the sidewalk.
   (G)   No mobile food vehicle and/or mobile food vendor shall have any
exclusive and/or perpetual right to any location upon the streets, alleys, or
public grounds of the city.
   (H)   No mobile food vehicle and/or mobile food vendor granted a permit to
operate on approved designated zones (i.e., public parking lots) shall be of a
size so as to interfere with the city or public’s use of any public ways.
   (I)   No mobile food vehicle and/or mobile food vendors shall vend in any
congested area where the operation will impede pedestrian or vehicle traffic;
including customer queues, accessory units, or signage.
   (J)   No mobile food vehicle and/or mobile food vendor shall make or solicit
any sales to occupants of vehicles or engage in any activities which impede
vehicular traffic.
   (K)   The permittee shall obey any lawful order of a police officer to move
to a different permitted location to avoid congestion or obstruction of a
public right-of-way or remove the mobile food vehicle or pushcart entirely from
the public right-of-way adjacent property if necessary to avoid such congestion
or obstruction.
   (L)   The mobile food vehicle and/or mobile vendor must prominently display
the city issued business license and permit.
   (M)   Any power required for the mobile food vehicle and/or pushcart located
on a public way shall be self-contained and shall not draw its power from the
public right-of-way. No power cable or equipment shall be extended at grade or
overhead across any public street, alley, or sidewalk unless the permit
specifically allows such.
   (N)   The permittee and/or licensee shall contain all refuse, trash, and
litter within the mobile food vehicle or a small moveable trash can maintained
by the permittee and/or licensee, and located adjacent to the mobile food
vehicle and/or pushcart in such a manner as not to block or otherwise obstruct
pedestrian or vehicular traffic. The owner/operator of the mobile food vehicle
and/or public food vendor shall be responsible for properly disposing of such
refuse, trash, and litter as would any business, and shall not place it in any
public trash container, or in any private container without proper permission.
   (O)   The proposed mobile food vehicle and/or pushcart vending activity
shall not violate the Americans with Disabilities Act.
   (P)   If an existing mobile “food zone” conflicts with the requirements set
forth in this chapter, the Mobile Food Vendors Committee shall make a
determination if it will be feasible to issue a new permit when the existing
permit expires.
   (Q)   Mobile food vending shall only occur from the side of a food vehicle
that is parked abutting and parallel to the curb.
   (R)   The mobile food vehicle shall not have drive-through service.
   (S)   The decibels on any generator(s) used may not exceed “60dBA”. The
operator must provide the manufacturer’s specs on decibels generated by his or
her particular generator. The City Police Department will make the final
determination if power generators used by mobile food vehicles constitute a
noise violation.
   (T)   The use of the permitted operating location for mobile food vehicles
and/or mobile food vendors must be compatible with the public interest in use
of the public right-of-way. In making such determination, the Mobile Food
Vendors Committee shall consider the width of the public way, parking issues,
and traffic congestion, the weight that can be supported by the paving or
street surface at the proposed location, the proximity and location of existing
street furniture, including, but not limited to, utility poles, parking meters,
bus shelters, benches, street trees, news racks, as well as the presence of bus
stops, truck loading zones, taxi stands, or other businesses or approved mobile
food vehicles to determine whether the requested location would result in
pedestrian or street congestion.
   (U)   Any new business that opens or moves near an existing mobile food
vehicle or pushcart zone shall be deemed to have accepted the proximity of the
existing mobile food vehicle and/or pushcart in operation.
(Ord. passed 6-25-2018) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.08 PROHIBITION AGAINST THE TRANSFER OF A PERMIT AND/OR LICENSE.
   (A)   No permit is transferable without approval of the Mobile Food Vendors
Committee.
   (B)   No person holding a permit and/or license for a mobile food vehicle
shall sell, lend, lease, or in any manner, transfer a mobile food vehicle
permit and/or license for value.
   (C)   A permit and/or license holder may transfer a permit and/or license as
part of the sale of a majority of the stock in a corporation holding such
permit and/or license, as part of the sale of a majority of the membership
interests of a limited liability company holding such permit and/or license, or
as part of the sale of a business or substantially all of its assets; provided
that there shall be no allocated or actual value for the transfer of the permit
and/or license.
      (1)   Prior to any such transfer, the transferor shall notify the Mobile
Food Vendors Committee in writing and the transferee shall submit a mobile food
vehicle permit application for approval to the Mobile Food Vendors Committee.
      (2)   Any such transfer shall be subject to the terms and conditions of
the original permit.
(Ord. passed 6-25-2018) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any person vending without a duly issued permit, license, and personal
identification or found in violation of any of the regulatory provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction.
(Ord. passed 6-25-2018) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.10 DENIAL, REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OF PERMIT AND/OR BUSINESS LICENSE.
   (A)   An application or approved permit and/or business license may be
denied, revoked, suspended, or not renewed for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   The permittee and/or licensee or any of its principals fails to
satisfy any qualification or requirements imposed by this chapter, or other
local, state, or federal laws or regulations that pertain to the particular
license;
      (2)   The permittee and/or licensee or any of its principals is or has
engaged in a business, trade, or profession without having obtained a valid
license, permit, or work card when such applicant or principal knew or
reasonably should have known that one was required;
      (3)   The permittee and/or licensee or any of its principals has been
subject, in any jurisdiction, to disciplinary action of any kind with respect
to a license, permit, or work card to the extent that such disciplinary action
reflects upon the qualification, acceptability, or fitness of the applicant or
principal to conduct such a business;
      (4)   The permittee and/or licensee or any of its principals has been
convicted of any crime that involves any local, state, or federal law or
regulation arising out of the operation of a similar business;
      (5)   The permittee and/or licensee or any of its principals has been
convicted of a crime as a result of having perpetrated deceptive practices upon
the public within the last ten years;
      (6)   The motor food vehicle on which the business is proposed to be
conducted does not satisfy all local, state, or federal laws or regulations
which relate to the activity that is to be licensed;
      (7)   The licensee or any of its principals is in default on any payments
owed to the city;
      (8)   The application contains material omissions or false, fraudulent,
or deceptive statements;
      (9)   The motor food vehicle is operated in such a manner as constituting
a public nuisance per the city code or statutes;
      (10)   The proposed operation is in violation of any federal, state, or
local laws including, but not limited to, the provisions of this chapter
pertaining to food, fire prevention, and public health and safety;
      (11)   The licensee, his or her agents, or employees interfere with an
inspection of the food establishment by a Health Department;
      (12)   There are repeated or serious violations of the applicable
portions of this chapter;
      (13)   There are repeated or serious violations of federal or state food
laws or laws regulating food establishments as defined in this chapter;
      (14)   The Bell County Health Department denies, revokes, or suspends the
license of the mobile food vehicle or mobile food vendor;
      (15)   The mobile food vehicle fails to have the required registration
and proof of insurance; or
      (16)   There is a violation of any section of this chapter.
   (B)   The provisions of this section are not exclusive. This section shall
not preclude the enforcement of any other provisions of this chapter or state
and federal laws and regulations. The County Health Department may impose
additional requirements to protect against health hazards related to the
operation of a mobile food vehicle.
(Ord. passed 6-25-2018) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.11 APPEALS TO COMMITTEE UPON DENIAL, REVOCATION, OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Upon any denial, revocation, or suspension of a mobile food vehicle
permit and/or business license by the Mobile Food Vendors Committee, the
applicant or permittee and/or licensee may appeal the denial to the Committee
by filing a written statement of appeal with the City Clerk within ten days
following the denial, revocation, or suspension and a hearing shall be held
thereon by the Committee at a regular or special meeting of the City Council or
a continuance.
   (B)   The applicant or permittee, during the appeal, may be represented by
counsel.
      (1)   (a)   Except as set forth in §
115.99(B)(2)(b), prior to revocation, written notice shall be given to the
permittee and/or licensee or person in charge.
         (b)   The notice shall set forth:
            1.   The grounds upon which the city will seek denial, revocation,
or suspension of the permit and/or license;
            2.   The specific violations of this chapter or of federal or state
law upon which the city will rely in seeking denial, revocation, or suspension
of the permit and/or license;
            3.   A hearing will be held before the City Council;
            4.   The date, time, and place of the hearing; and
            5.   The permittee and/or licensee may appear in person and/or be
represented by counsel and may present testimony.
      (2)   The hearing shall be held in accordance with this section. If the
permit and/or license holder fails to appear at the hearing at the time, place,
and date specified, the city shall present sufficient evidence to establish a
prima facie case showing that an act or acts have been committed or omitted
that constitutes grounds for denial, revocation, or suspension of a permit and/
or license.
      (3)   After completion of the hearing, the City Council shall make
written findings as to whether or not grounds exist for denial, revocation, or
suspension of the permit and/or license. If the City Council finds that grounds
exist for denial, revocation, or suspension, it shall deny, revoke, or suspend
the permit and/or license temporarily for upon 180 days or permanently.
      (4)   A copy of the written findings shall be sent to the permittee and/
or licensee at the address of the permittee contained in the permittee’s
application. The city is entitled to rely upon the accuracy of the address
submitted by the permittee for his or her application.
      (5)   If the City Council revokes the permit and/or license, written
notice of the revocation shall be served on the permittee and/or licensee or
the person in charge with a copy of the findings.
      (6)   Upon service of a written notice that the permit and/or license
have been revoked as provided herein, all food operations shall cease
immediately. In the event that the permittee’s fail to cease operations, the
mobile food vending vehicle or cart may be impounded.
      (7)   Whenever a permit and/or license are revoked, the Bell County
Health Department shall be notified.
      (8)   In the event a permit and/or license are revoked, the city shall
not be liable to the permittee and/or licensee for any refund of any part of
the permit and/or license fee.
   (C)   Reinstatement of a permittee and/or licensee that has been revoked
shall require application and payment of a permit and/or license fee as if it
were an initial application. No new permit and/or license application shall be
considered for an establishment or mobile food vehicle where the permit and/or
license have been revoked until the expiration of the revocation period. The
revocation period will be determined by the Food Truck Committee.
(Ord. passed 6-25-2018) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.12 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Any notice provided for in this chapter may be served by personal delivery,
certified mail, return receipt requested or by posting a copy on the mobile
food vending vehicle.
(Ord. passed 6-25-2018)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any unauthorized transfer or attempt to transfer a permit, in
violation of §
115.08, shall automatically void such permit. Whoever violates this provision,
including both the transferor and transferee, shall be subject to a fine of
$300. The unauthorized transfer or attempt to transfer of each permit shall
constitute a separate violation.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of an infraction, of which person has been
given notice, shall be treated as a misdemeanor punishable by jail time not to
exceed one year and/or fines as noted hereinbelow.
      (1)   Enforcement. The provisions of this chapter or any rules and
regulations may be enforced jointly by the City Police Department
      (2)   Fine for violation.
         (a)   Any permit holder operating a mobile food vehicle or service in
violation of any provision of this chapter or any rules and regulations
promulgated by the Mobile Food Vendors Committee may be subject to a fine of
$300 per day. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense. Violation for a second offense shall be $500 per day. The city shall
have a lien upon the violator’s mobile food vehicle for payment of all fines
imposed hereunder.
         (b)   The Mobile Food Vendors Committee may suspend a permit and/or
license for no more than three days without a notice or hearing, if there is a
probability of serious or repetitive violation of public safety, health, or
order.
      (3)   Revocation, suspension, modification. Once a permit and/or license
has been issued it may be revoked, suspended, modified, or not renewed by the
City Clerk in accordance with §
115.10 for failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter or any rules
and regulation promulgated by the Mobile Food Vendors Committee, including, but
not limited to, failure to pay any outstanding fines or penalties.
         (a)   With the exception of division (B)(2)(b) above, no permit and/or
license shall be revoked, suspended, modified, or not renewed without a hearing
before the City Council, prior to which hearing the Council shall give
reasonable notice of the time and place of the hearing and the specific grounds
of the proposed action. The decision resulting there from shall be final and
subject only to judicial review.
      (4)   Any permit and/or license holder found in violation of this section
or any rules and regulations may be issued a ticket for violation and the
mobile food vehicle may be impounded until the violation fine has been paid in
full along with the cost and expense of impoundment, towing, and storage.
      (5)   Any mobile food vehicle or pushcart being operated without a valid
mobile food vehicle permit and/or license issued by the Mobile Food Vendors
Committee shall be deemed a public safety hazard and may be immediately
impounded without notice. The owner of the vehicle will be required to pay any
lien for towing and storage incurred by the city in addition to any other fines
and penalties prior to return of the vehicle or pushcart.
      (6)   No mobile food vehicle shall be parked on the street overnight, or
left unattended and unsecured at any time. Any mobile food vehicle which is
found to be unattended shall be considered a public safety hazard and may be
impounded. The owner of the vehicle will be required to pay any lien for towing
and storage incurred by the city in addition to any other fines and penalties
prior to return of the vehicle or pushcart.
      (7)   In the event that it’s necessary to file a civil action to enforce
this chapter or for collection of undue fines and penalties, the violator shall
be responsible for paying a reasonable attorney fee for enforcement of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-25-2018)
CHAPTER 116: DRUG OR ALCOHOL TREATMENT FACILITIES
Section
   
116.01   Purpose
   
116.02   Administration
   
116.03   Location
§ 116.01 PURPOSE.
   An outpatient drug or alcohol treatment clinic is a program or facility
operated for the purpose of and specializing in the care, treatment and/or
rehabilitation of persons suffering with addictions or dependency to alcohol or
controlled substance addictions. This includes programs or facilities that
administer or distribute Methadone, Suboxone or other controlled substances for
the treatment of drug addiction. An outpatient drug or alcohol treatment clinic
is not a state licensed hospital as per this chapter. OUTPATIENT DRUG OR
ALCOHOL TREATMENT CLINIC does not include hospitals or programs consisting
solely of support group activities without treatment by licensed health
practitioner, such as Alcoholics Anonymous, Narcotics Anonymous and similar
programs.
(Ord. passed 1-7-2021)
§ 116.02 ADMINISTRATION.
   No person or business shall be permitted to administer or prescribe
medication that is commonly used for the purpose of drug abuse or addiction
within the corporate limits of the city within a 1,000-foot radius of any
state-licensed operator or regulated school or daycare center for minors,
public park or playground. The exemption for this provision would exclude any
state-licensed hospital.
(Ord. passed 1-7-2021)
§ 116.03 LOCATION.
   (A)   An outpatient drug or alcohol treatment clinic shall not be located
within 1,000 feet of any property that is occupied by a school or daycare
facility or center primarily for minors and public parks or playgrounds.
Measurement shall be made in a straight line on the city zoning map from the
nearest property line of the school or daycare facility or center, public park
or playground.
   (B)   An outpatient drug or alcohol treatment clinic shall not be located
within 2,500 feet of any other outpatient drug or alcohol treatment clinic.
   (C)   Unless prohibited above, an outpatient drug or alcohol treatment
clinic may only be located in B-4 zones. Such clinics are strictly prohibited
from being located in B-l, B-2, B-3 and/or I-1 zones.
(Ord. passed 1-7-2021)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
130.01   Destruction of television and radio equipment
   
130.02   Curfew for minors
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DESTRUCTION OF TELEVISION AND RADIO EQUIPMENT.
   Any person who shall knowingly, willfully, or maliciously break, injure, or
otherwise destroy or damage any of the posts, wires, cables, towers, or other
materials in the construction or use of any line of a television coaxial cable,
or a community antenna television system, or a microwave radio system of
another person, firm, or corporation, or knowingly, willfully, or maliciously
interfere with such structure so erected or shall, without the consent of such
owner, in any way attempt to lead from its cables, wires, or uses or make use
of the electrical signal or any portion thereof properly belonging to or in
use, or in readiness to be made use of, for the purpose of using such
electrical signal from any television coaxial cable, microwave system, or a
community television system of another person, firm, or corporation or owner of
such property shall be guilty of a violation.
(Ord. passed 8-4-1969) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALLOW. Either permit or neglect to refrain or prevent. It requires actual
or constructive knowledge on the part of the parent or guardian; that is, the
parent or guardian must actually know about the child violating this section,
or the circumstances must be such that a reasonable prudent parent or guardian
should have known the child was violating this section.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18, or, as may be otherwise phrased,
any person of the age of 17 or under.
      PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a minor:
         (a)   As a natural or adoptive parent;
         (b)   As a legal guardian;
         (c)   As a person who stands in loco parentis; or
         (d)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of
court.
      REMAIN. To stay behind, to tarry, or to stay unnecessarily upon or in any
public assembly, building, place, street, or highway.
   (B)   Curfew hours.
      (1)   It is a curfew violation for a child 17 years of age or under to be
in a public place 10:00 p.m. through 6:00 a.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, and Thursday, and 11:00 p.m. through 6:00 a.m. on Friday and
Saturday.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian having legal
custody of a minor to allow such minor to be or remain in or upon a public
assembly, building, place, street, or highway in the city under circumstances
not constituting an exception as enumerated in division (C) during the time
periods contained in division (B)(1) above.
   (C)   Exemptions. In the following exceptional cases a minor in or upon any
public assembly, building, place, street, or highway in the city during the
nocturnal hours provided for in division (B)(1) above shall not be considered
in violation of this section:
      (1)   When the minor is accompanied by a parent or guardian;
      (2)   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent or guardian of
such minor;
      (3)   When exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United
States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech,
and the right of assembly;
      (4)   In case of reasonable necessity, but only after such minor’s parent
has communicated to the Police Department the facts establishing such
reasonable necessity;
      (5)   When the minor is on the sidewalk of the place where such minor
resides, or on the sidewalk of either next-door neighbor who has not
communicated an objection to a police officer or the Police Department;
      (6)   When returning home, by a direct route from and within one hour of
the termination of a school activity, or any activity or a religious or other
voluntary association, provided that justification indicating the place and
time of termination of the event can be given to any investigating officer of
the Police Department;
      (7)   When authorized by regulation issued by the Mayor in cases of
reasonable necessity involving more minors than may reasonably be dealt with on
an individual basis. Such regulation should be issued sufficiently in advance
to permit publicity through news media and through other agencies such as the
schools. The regulation shall define the activity; the scope of the use of the
public assembly; the building; the place, street, or highway permitted; and the
period of time involved not to extend more than one hour beyond the time for
termination of the activity; and the reason for finding that such regulation is
reasonably necessary. The Mayor shall notify the Police Department of the
information;
      (8)   When engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of the
state authorize a person under 18 years of age to perform;
      (9)   When the minor is, with parental consent, in a motor vehicle with a
lawfully authorized driver; or
      (10) When the minor, who is a duly authorized and licensed driver, is
operating a motor vehicle within the city for the purpose of passing through,
by direct route, from one location to another either within or out of the city,
including all minors that may also be within the vehicle.
   (D)   Violation.
      (1)   A police officer, upon finding or being notified of any minor in or
upon any public assembly, building, place, street, or highway reasonably
believed to be in violation of this section, shall follow KRS 610.280, which
governs the taking or receiving a child into custody on a charge of committing
an offense. All other provisions of the State Unified Juvenile Code shall
apply.
      (2)   A police officer, upon finding or being notified of any minor in or
upon any public assembly, building, place, street, or highway, whose parent is
believed to be in violation of this section, shall confront such minor and
request such information as his or her name, age, and address of his or her
parent or legal guardian.
(Ord. passed 11-14-1994; Ord. passed 8-13-2007) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any portion of § 131.01 shall be guilty
of a violation, and shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense or
violation.
   (C)   (1)   Violation by a minor of the provisions of §
130.02 shall constitute a public offense as contemplated in the provisions of
KRS 635.010 et seq. and a complaint filed against a minor for such a violation
shall be proceeded against in accordance with the provisions of KRS 635.010,
635.020, 635.060, 635.070, 635.080, 635.085, and 635.100.
      (2)   Any parent or guardian violating §
130.02 shall be subject to a fine of no more than $500 or imprisonment for a
period not to exceed six months, or both.
(Ord. passed 11-14-1994)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152.   PLANNING
      
153.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
154.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Adoption of state’s Building Code; standards of safety
   
150.02   Building zone established; cost of erecting buildings
   
150.03   Buildings to be fireproof
   
150.04   Appeals
Housing and Unsafe Building Code
   
150.15   Adoption by reference
   
150.16   Amendments
Abandoned, Deteriorated, or Unsafe Property
   
150.30   Findings
   
150.31   Definitions
   
150.32   Establishment; powers
   
150.33   Membership
   
150.34   Functions and certification as abandoned urban property, blighted
property, or deteriorated property
   
150.35   Taxation and eminent domain
   
150.36   Conflict of interest
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF STATE’S BUILDING CODE; STANDARDS OF SAFETY.
   (A)   The state’s Building Code, as contained in KAR Chapter 7, Title 815,
Art. 120; the state’s Residential Code, as contained in KAR Chapter 7, Title
815, Art. 125; the state’s Plumbing Code, as contained in KAR Chapter 20, Title
815; the Kentucky Standards of Safety, as contained in KAR Chapter 10, Title
815; together with any amendments, are hereby adopted by reference as if fully
set forth in this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Copies of the above codes and any amendments thereto shall be placed
on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer where they shall be available for
public inspection during normal business hours.
(1995 Code, § 150.01) (Ord. passed 2-11-2019) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 BUILDING ZONE ESTABLISHED; COST OF ERECTING BUILDINGS.
   There is established a building zone in the city as follows: all that
section or part of the city, bounded on the south by the Cumberland River; on
the north by the Tennessee Avenue; on the east by First Street; and on the west
by Sixth Street.
(1995 Code, § 150.02) (Ord. passed 3-1-1954) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 BUILDINGS TO BE FIREPROOF.
   It shall be unlawful, and no person shall erect or construct any business
building in the city, unless the same shall be of fireproof material and
construction, and not until after the plans and specifications therefor shall
have been filed with the City Council and by it duly approved.
(1995 Code, § 150.03) (Ord. passed 11-9-1944) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions made by the City Building Official under this chapter
may be taken to the State Board of Housing, Building, and Construction unless
and/or until a local board of housing appeals, as set forth in KRS Chapter
198B, is established to hear such appeals.
(1995 Code, § 150.04)
Statutory reference:
   Appeals procedure, see KRS 198B.070
HOUSING AND UNSAFE BUILDING CODE
§ 150.15 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Housing and Unsafe Building Code (most current edition), suggested by
the state’s Department of Commerce, a copy of which is hereby made a part of
the public records of the city, is hereby adopted and are incorporated and made
a part of this chapter, by reference, and shall control the erection,
construction, and/or repair of all buildings in the city.
(1995 Code, § 150.15) (Ord. passed 5-16-1968)
§ 150.16 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The provisions of § 107 of said Housing and Unsafe Building Code are
included as a part of this chapter, and are not to be optional.
   (B)   Paragraph (5) of § 107 of said Housing and Unsafe Building Code is
hereby amended so as to read as follows:
      “(5) A fee of $10.00 shall be paid to the Building Inspector for each
certificate of occupancy.”
   (C)   Subparagraph (3) c of § 105 of said Housing and Unsafe Building Code
is hereby amended so as to provide as follows:
   “For the purpose of making such surveys, inspections, and investigations,
the Building Inspector is hereby authorized, upon identification and statement
of purpose, to enter, inspect, survey and investigate between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 5:00 p.m., or at a time arranged with the occupant or owner, or at any
time if an emergency exists, or if requested by the owner or occupant, all
buildings, dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units and general premises. The
owner or occupant of every building, dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit and
general premises, or the person in charge thereof, shall give the Building
Inspector free access to such building, dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit,
or general premises for the purpose of such inspection, survey or
investigation.”
   (D)   Paragraph (4) of § 303 of said Building Code is hereby amended by
adding thereto the following subparagraph:
   “g. No person shall operate a rooming house unless he holds a valid rooming
house permit issued by the Building Inspector in the name of the operator and
for the specific dwelling or dwelling unit. The operator shall apply to the
Building Inspector for such permit, which shall be issued by Building
Inspector, upon compliance by the operator with the applicable provisions of
this code and of any rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto. This
permit shall be displayed in a conspicuous place within the rooming house at
all times. No such permit shall be transferable. Every person holding such a
permit shall give notice in writing to the Building Inspector within 24 hours
after having sold, transferred, given away, or otherwise disposed of ownership
of, interest in, or control of any rooming house. Such notice shall include the
name and address of the person succeeding the ownership or control of such
rooming house. Every rooming house permit shall expire at the end of one year
following its date of issuance, unless sooner suspended or revoked as
hereinafter provided.”
   (E)   Said Housing and Unsafe Building Code is hereby further amended so
that the words “Building Official” appearing therein shall read “Building
Inspector”.
(1995 Code, § 150.16) (Ord. passed 5-16-1968)
ABANDONED, DETERIORATED, OR UNSAFE PROPERTY
§ 150.30 FINDINGS.
   The City Council hereby declares and finds that there exists in the city
abandoned, blighted, dilapidated, deteriorated, or unsafe properties and that
there is a need in the city for the exercise of the powers, functions, and
duties conferred by KRS 92.305 and KRS Chapter 99 and further hereby adopts the
relevant provisions of those statutes. The City Council further recognizes that
historic sites and buildings, and certain planning and zoning categories
related to them, such as the historic district, are in the public interest.
Finally, all such matters require informed and fair decision-making which gives
due weight to the interests of property owners.
(Ord. 150.20, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 150.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED URBAN PROPERTY. Any vacant structure, or vacant or unimproved lot
or parcel of ground in a predominately built-up neighborhood which has been
vacant for at least one year that has become dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe,
rodent infested, a place for the accumulation of trash, or that has been tax
delinquent for a period of at least three years.
   BLIGHTED PROPERTY OR DETERIORATED PROPERTY. Any vacant structure or vacant
or unimproved lot or parcel of ground in a predominately built-up neighborhood:
      (1)   Which because of the physical condition or use is regarded as a
public nuisance at common law or has been declared a public nuisance in
accordance with the city ordinances;
      (2)   Which because of physical condition, use, or occupancy is
considered an attractive nuisance to children, including, but not limited to,
abandoned wells, shafts, basements, excavations, and unsafe fences or
structures;
      (3)   Which because it is dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe, vermin-
infested, or lacking in the facilities and equipment required by the building
regulations of the city;
      (4)   Which is a fire hazard or is otherwise dangerous to the safety of
persons or property;
      (5)   From which the utilities, plumbing, heating, sewerage, or other
facilities have been disconnected, destroyed, removed, or rendered ineffective
so that the property is unfit for its intended use or unfit for human
habitation;
      (6)   Which by reason of neglect or lack of maintenance has become a
place for accumulation of trash or debris, or a haven for rodents or other
vermin;
      (7)   Which has been tax delinquent for a period of at least three years;
or
      (8)   Which has not been rehabilitated within the time constraints placed
upon the owner by the appropriate building regulation enforcement officer or
agency.
   HISTORIC SITE. Any parcel of land of historic significance due to a
substantial value in tracing the history or prehistory of humankind, or upon
which a historic event has occurred, and which has been designated as a
HISTORIC SITE under this subchapter, or an unproved parcel, or part thereof on
which is situated a historic structure and any abutting improved parcel, or
part thereof, used as and constituting part of the premises on which the
historic structure is situated, and likewise designated as a HISTORIC SITE.
(Ord. 150.20, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 150.32 ESTABLISHMENT; POWERS.
   (A)   There is established a Property Review Commission which shall give
effect to the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Commission may adopt bylaws and such other rules and regulations
as may be necessary to its operations, subject to approval by the City Council.
The Commission shall conduct regular or special meetings as it deems necessary
and shall keep minutes and records of all proceedings, including the number of
votes for and against each question and the record of the vole of each member.
A simple majority of the total membership of the Commission shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business.
(Ord. 150.20, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 150.33 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Commission shall consist of five members appointed by the Mayor
with the approval of the City Council for terms of two years, except that of
the members first appointed, three shall be appointed for one-year terms and
two for two-years terms. The members shall consist of one real estate agent or
appraiser, one representative of area lending institutions who is knowledgeable
in the financing of residential property (neither of whom is required to be a
resident of the city), and three representatives from the citizens of the city
who are residents of the city, at least one of whom, if possible, has
demonstrated interest in the history of the city.
   (B)   Vacancies shall be filled by the Mayor for the unexpired portion of
the term.
   (C)   Each member shall be at least 21 years of age. No officer or employee
of the city whose duties include enforcement of the city building regulations
shall be appointed to the Commission, though all such personnel shall be
responsible to timely report to the Commission as requested.
   (D)   A member of the Commission shall be immediately removed from the
Commission if the member has missed three consecutive regular meetings of the
Commission without sufficient excuse accepted by a majority of the other
members of the Commission.
   (E)   A member of the Commission may be removed by the Mayor for cause,
after a hearing by the Mayor, and after at least ten days’ notice in writing
has been given to the member. Such notice shall set for the cause of the
proposed removal. At the hearing, the member may be represented by counsel, but
in any event, shall appear in person or shall be deemed to waive any objection
or protest of any kind.
   (F)   The Mayor shall designate one of the members of the Commission to be
Chairperson and one to be Vice-Chairperson to serve until the earlier of the
expiration of such member’s term or the appointment of a new Chairperson or
Vice-Chairperson by the Mayor. The Commission shall submit an annual report of
its activities to the Mayor and the City Council.
   (G)   Members shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for
expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties.
(Ord. 150.20, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 150.34 FUNCTIONS AND CERTIFICATION AS ABANDONED URBAN PROPERTY, BLIGHTED
PROPERTY, OR DETERIORATED PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Commission shall have the following functions:
      (1)   To determine whether a property is abandoned urban property or
blighted property or deteriorated property when it has been referred to the
Commission as tax delinquent or in violation of building regulations or in any
respect meeting the standards set forth in this subchapter; and
      (2)   To investigate, research, and recommend to the Mayor and the City
Council appropriate public policies and standards for the identification,
protection, enhancement, and on-going use of historic sites, including, by way
of illustration and without limitation:
         (a)   Polices, procedures, guidelines, ordinances, agencies, and the
like that are useful and appropriate to designate historic sites, or that
encourage or otherwise regulate appropriate alterations, rehabilitation,
construction, preservation, or demolition of any building part of a historic
site; and
         (b)   Polices, procedures, operating guidelines, or the like which
assure full and fair opportunity for any property owner to be heard with
respect to such matters.
   (B)   Certification of property as abandoned urban property or blighted
property or deteriorated property may be made only after the following
determinations have been made:
      (1)   The owner of the property or designated agent has been sent an
order or notice by the appropriate city officer or agency to eliminate the
conditions which are in violation of city building regulations or this
subchapter;
      (2)   The property is vacant or unfit for human habitation;
      (3)   The property is abandoned urban property or blighted property or
deteriorated property; and
      (4)   The Commission has notified the property owner or designated agent
that the property has been determined to be abandoned urban property or
blighted property or deteriorated property and the time period for correction
of such condition has expired and the property owner or agent and any
interested parties of record have failed to comply with the notice.
   (C)   Any property notified or cited under the provisions of
Chapter 92 shall immediately be referred to the Commission in writing, with a
copy of the notice pertaining thereto attached, by the officer or employee
issuing such notice or citation. Nothing in this subchapter shall supersede by
or otherwise modify the terms and application of any city ordinance now in
effect including, by way of example and without limitation,
Chapter 92 and the zoning ordinance for the city.
(Ord. 150.20, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 150.35 TAXATION AND EMINENT DOMAIN.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall impose the tax provided for in KRS 92.305, as may
be levied from time to time in conformity with statute by the City Council, on
any property which has been certified as abandoned urban property.
   (B)   The City Council may institute eminent domain proceedings pursuant to
applicable state law against any property which has been certified as abandoned
urban property or blighted property or deteriorated property if, in addition to
the determinations set forth in this section, the City Council finds:
      (1)   Such property has deteriorated to such an extent as to constitute a
serious and growing menace to the public health, safety, and welfare;
      (2)   Such property is likely to continue to deteriorate unless
corrected;
      (3)   The continued deterioration of such property may contribute to the
blighting or deterioration of the area immediately surrounding the property;
and
      (4)   The owner of such property has failed to correct the deterioration
of the property.
   (C)   The city may acquire by eminent domain, pursuant to KRS Chapter 416,
any property determined to be abandoned urban property or blighted property or
deteriorated property pursuant to this subchapter, and shall have the power to
hold, clear, manage, develop, or dispose of property so acquired, for
residential and related use pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter and
KRS Chapters 92 and 99.
(Ord. 150.20, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 150.36 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   No officer or employee of the city or the Commission who, in the course of
employment duties is required to participate in the determination of abandoned
urban property or blighted property or deteriorated property, or the issuance
of notices on violations which may lead to a determination of abandoned urban
property or blighted property or deteriorated property, shall acquire any
interest in any property declared by the Commission or the City Council to be
abandoned urban property or blighted property or deteriorated property, if such
officer or employee owns or has a financial interest, direct or indirect, in
any property certified to be abandoned urban property or blighted property or
deteriorated property, he or she shall immediately disclose in writing such
interest to the Commission and to the City Council and that disclosure shall be
entered in the minutes of the Commission and of the City Council. Failure to so
disclose such interest shaft constitute misconduct in office. No payment shall
be made to any officer or employee for any property or interest therein
acquired by the city from such officer or employee unless the amount of such
payment is fixed by court order in eminent domain proceedings or unless payment
is unanimously approved by the City Council otherwise, such payment shall be
escrowed by the City Clerk for distribution to such unaffiliated person or
persons as may be determined by court order to be persons with a lawful
interest in such property free of any conflict of interest under this
subchapter.
(Ord. 150.20, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §
150.01 shall be subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   Violators of the state’s Building Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $1,000 for each offense.
(KRS 198B.990(1))
      (2)   Violators of the State Standards of Safety shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $1,000, imprisonment
for not more than 60 days, or both, for each offense. (KRS 227.990(1))
      (3)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100, imprisonment for not
more than 90 days, or both, for each offense.
(KRS 318.990) (1995 Code, § 150.99)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Statutory authorization
   
151.02   Finding of fact
   
151.03   Statement of purpose
   
151.04   Objectives
   
151.05   Definitions
   
151.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
151.07   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
151.08   Establishment of development permit
   
151.09   Compliance
   
151.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.11   Interpretation
   
151.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
151.25   Designation of local administrator
   
151.26   Establishment of development permit
   
151.27   Duties and responsibilities of the local administrator
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.40   General construction standards
   
151.41   Specific standards
   
151.42   Standards for streams without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways
   
151.43   Standards for shallow flooding zones
   
151.44   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
151.45   Standards for accessory structures in all zones beginning with the
letter “A”
   
151.46   Critical facilities
   
151.47   Appeals and variance procedures
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The State Legislature has in KRS Chapter 100 delegated to local government
units the authority to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the City Council
hereby adopts the following floodplain management chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-9-2015; Ord. passed 1-7-2021)
§ 151.02 FINDING OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increased flood height and velocity, and by the location
in flood hazard areas of uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to other lands
which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise protected from
flood damage.
(Ord. passed 3-9-2015; Ord. passed 1-7-2021)
§ 151.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private loss due to flooding by
provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood height or velocity;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which accommodate or channel flood waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
areas.
(Ord. passed 3-9-2015; Ord. passed 1-7-2021)
§ 151.04 OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard or other flood-prone areas in such
a manner as to minimize future flood- blighted areas caused by flooding;
   (G)   Ensure that potential homebuyers are on notice that property is in a
special flood hazard area; and
   (H)   Ensure that those who occupy a special flood hazard area assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. passed 3-9-2015; Ord. passed 1-7-2021)
§ 151.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   100-YEAR FLOOD. (See BASE FLOOD). The flood that has a 1% or greater chance
of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with
the letter A is subject to inundation by the 100-YEAR FLOOD. Over the life of a
30-year loan, there is a 26% chance of experiencing such a flood with the SFHA.
   500-YEAR FLOOD. The flood that has a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any year. Areas subject to the 500-YEAR FLOOD have a moderate risk
of flooding.
   A ZONE. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 1% annual chance flood
(100-year flood). Base flood elevations (BFEs) are not determined.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should
constitute a minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation,
and should be designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns,
and hay sheds.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter or height of a structure.
   AE ZONES. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 1% annual chance flood
(100-year flood). Base flood elevations (BFEs) are determined.
   AH ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where depths are between one
and three feet (usually shallow ponding). Base flood elevations are determined.
   AO ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where water depth is between
one and three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain). Flood depths are
determined.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or from the Floodplain
Administrator’s ruling on a request for a variance.
   AR/A1-A30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO, and AR/A ZONES. Special flood hazard areas
(SFHAs) that result from the de-certification of a previously accredited flood
protection system that is in the process of being restored to provide a 100-
year or greater level of flood protection. After restoration is complete these
areas will still experience residual flooding from other flooding sources.
   A99 ZONE. That part of the SFHA inundated by the 100-year flood which is to
be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection system under
construction. No base flood elevations are determined.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) where the base flood depths range from one to three
feet, there is no clearly  defined channel, the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year (also called the 100-YEAR FLOOD). BASE FLOOD is the term used
throughout this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, A1-30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH, and AR/
AO that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that has a
1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity having the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY FLOOD HAZARD AREA (CFHA). An area that has been determined by the
Floodplain Administrator (or other delegated, designated, or qualified
community official) from available technical studies, historical information,
and other available and reliable sources, which may be subject to periodic
inundation by floodwaters that can adversely affect the public health, safety
and general welfare. This includes areas downstream from dams.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives to those communities in the Regular
Program to go beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to develop
extra measures for protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety or a facility which, if unusable or
unreachable because of flooding, would seriously and adversely affect the
health and safety of the public. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not
limited to: housing likely to contain occupants not sufficiently mobile to
avoid injury or death unaided during a flood; schools, nursing homes,
hospitals, police, fire and emergency response installations, vehicle and
equipment storage facilities, emergency operations centers likely to be called
upon before, during and after a flood, public and private utility facilities
important to maintaining or restoring normal services before, during and after
a flood, and those facilities or installations which produce, use or store
volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic and/or water-reactive materials,
hazardous materials or hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. An area in which the flood hazard is undetermined.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. For insurance proposes, a non-basement structure built
to have the lowest floor elevated above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, posts, piers, pilings or columns.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A statement certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor on the FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification that verifies a structure’s elevation and other related
information to verify compliance with this chapter.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The initial phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP, intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at subsidized
rates on all insurable structures in that community before the effective date
of the initial FIRM.
   ENCLOSURE. That portion of a structure below the lowest floor used solely
for parking of vehicles, limited storage, or access to the structure.
   ENCROACHMENT. The physical advance or infringement of uses, plant growth,
fill, excavation, structures, or development into a floodplain, which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for
FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to
as “existing structures”.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first floodplain management ordinance adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters;
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source;
      (3)   Mudslides which are proximately caused by FLOODING and are akin to
a river of liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas,
as when earth is carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of
the current;
      (4)   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or
other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in FLOODING.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) has delineated the areas of flood hazards and the
regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). A map on which the boundaries of the
flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow), and flood-related erosion areas having special
hazards have been designated as Zones A, M, and/or E by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) has delineated special flood hazard areas and risk
premium zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) containing flood profiles, the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM), and/or the Flood Boundary Floodway Map (FBFM), and the water
surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by flood waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed by the community to
administer and enforce the floodplain management ordinances.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing
natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited to emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management ordinances, and
open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances (such as grading and erosion control), and other applications of
police power, which control development in flood-prone areas. This term
describes federal, state and/or local regulations, in any combination thereof,
which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect, the FEMA form in effect at the time of certification
stating that a non-residential structure, together with attendant utilities and
sanitary facilities is watertight to a specified design elevation with walls
that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water and all structural
components are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic flood forces,
including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated debris impact forces.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. Also
referred to as the REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. That area of the floodplain on either side of the
regulatory floodway.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood. FREEBOARD must be applied not
just to the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofing level, but also to
the level of protection provided to all components of the structure, such as
building utilities, HVAC components, etc.
   FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION. As related in § 151.47, the variance granted must
not cause fraud on or victimization of the public. In examining this
requirement, the City Council will consider the fact that every newly
constructed structure adds to government responsibilities and remains a part of
the community for fifty to one hundred years. Structures that are permitted to
be constructed below the base flood elevation are subject during all those
years to increased risk of damage from floods, while future owners of the
property and the community as a whole are subject to all the costs,
inconvenience, danger, and suffering that those increased flood damages may
incur. In addition, future owners may purchase the property, unaware that it is
subject to potential flood damage, and can be insured only at very high flood
insurance rates.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE FACILITY. A facility, structure, or other
development, which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located
or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only a docking or
port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term storage,
manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   GOVERNING BODY. The local governing unit, (i.e., county or municipality)
that is empowered to adopt and implement ordinances to provide for the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
   HAZARD POTENTIAL. The possible adverse incremental consequences that result
from the release of water or stored contents due to failure of a dam or mis-
operation of a dam or appurtenances. The hazard potential classification of a
dam does not reflect in any way the current condition of a dam and its
appurtenant structures (e.g., safety, structural integrity, flood routing
capacity).
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior, or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). 
      (1)   Increased cost of compliance coverage means under the standard
flood insurance policy the cost to repair a substantially flood damaged
building that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to bring a
substantially damaged building into compliance with the local flood damage
prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are floodproofing (non-
residential), relocation, elevation, demolition, or any combination thereof.
      (2)   ICC coverage is available on residential and non-residential
buildings (this category includes public or government buildings, such as
schools, libraries, and municipal buildings) insured under the NFIP.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps, and Flood Insurance Studies. LOMCs include the following
categories:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was inadvertently included in a designated SFHA. A LOMA
amends the current effective FIRM and establishes that a specific property is
not located in a SFHA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to human-made changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). A determination that
a structure or parcel has been elevated by properly placed engineered fill
above the BFE and is, therefore, excluded from the SHFA.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LIMITED STORAGE. An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items which can withstand exposure to the elements and have low
flood damage potential. Such an area must be of flood resistant material, void
of utilities except for essential lighting, and cannot be temperature
controlled.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The lowest elevation of the sidewalk, patio,
attached garage, deck support, basement entryway or grade immediately next to
the structure and after the completion of construction.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area including
basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, structure access, or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a structure’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected or attached to the required utilities. The
term also includes park trailers, travel trailers, and similar transportable
structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to
be improved property. The term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a
recreational vehicle (see RECREATIONAL VEHICLE).
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP. The Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The four-digit number on a flood map, followed by a letter
suffix, assigned by FEMA. The first four digits represent the map panel. The
letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised.
(The letter “A” is not used by FEMA, the letter “B” is the first revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The property value (as agreed between a willing buyer and
seller), excluding the value of the land as established by what the local real
estate market will bear. MARKET VALUE of the structure can be established by
independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated by age of
structure (actual cash value) or adjusted assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL (MSL). The average height of the sea for all stages of the
tide. For the purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the MSL is used
as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain as
shown on the community’s FIRM. For purposes of this chapter, the term is
synonymous with either National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or North
American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the costs of
disaster response and recovery.
   MUDSLIDE OR MUDFLOW. Describes a condition where there is a river, flow, or
inundation of liquid mud down a hillside, usually as a result of a dual
condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water on
the ground, preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
MUDSLIDE OR MUDFLOW may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide is in
progress, and will be recognized as such by the Floodplain Administrator only
if the MUDFLOW, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage that
occurs.
   MUDSLIDE OR MUDFLOW AREA MANAGEMENT. The operation of and overall program of
corrective and preventative measures for reducing mudslide or mudflow damage,
including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans, mudslide control
works, and floodplain management regulations.
   MUDSLIDE- OR MUDFLOW-PRONE AREA. An area with land surfaces and slopes of
unconsolidated material where the history, geology, and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used as the vertical datum on the older FIRMs. Refer to
FIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by
a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and  either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL. Structures that are not designed for human habitation,
including but not limited to: small business concerns, churches, schools, farm
structures (including grain bins and silos), pool houses, clubhouses,
recreational structures, mercantile structures, agricultural and industrial
structures, warehouses, and hotels or motels with normal room rentals for less
than six months duration.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD). As corrected in 1988, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used on the newer FIRMs and Digitally Referenced FIRMs
(DFIRMs). (Refer to FIRM or DFIRM panel legend for correct datum.)
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes but is not limited to any dam, wall, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, structure, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, due to its location, its propensity to snare or
collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being carried
downstream.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. A community that voluntarily elects to participate
in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management regulations that
are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. New construction or substantial improvements for
which start of construction occurred after December 31,1974, or on or after the
effective date of the initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. New construction or substantial improvements for
which start of construction occurred on or before December 31, 1974, or before
the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A FEMA-imposed change in community’s status resulting from
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations.
   PROGRAM DEFICIENCY. A defect in a community’s floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management standards.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to safety or health
of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons,
or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of
any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of a community’s participation in the NFIP where
more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and higher
amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and flood elevations
determined in the FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
See BASE FLOOD.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. The process by which a community brings a structure or
other development into compliance with state or local floodplain management
regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impact of
noncompliance. Reduced impact may include protecting the structure or other
affected development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement
provisions of the ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations,
or reducing state or federal financing exposure with regard to the structure or
other development.
   REPAIR. The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing structure.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   REPETITIVE LOSS PROPERTY. Any insurable building for which two or more
claims of more than $1,000 were paid by the National Flood Insurance Program
(NFIP) within any rolling ten-year period, since 1978. At least two of the
claims must be more than ten days apart but, within ten years of each other. A
REPETITIVE LOSS PROPERTY may or may not be currently insured by the NFIP.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new or renewal flood insurance coverage  shall be
provided for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a
duly constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public
body to be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
are intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy
in flood-prone areas.
   SEVERE REPETITIVE LOSS STRUCTURE. Any insured property that has met at least
one of the following paid flood loss criteria since 1978, regardless of
ownership: (1) four or more separate claim payments of more than $5,000 each
(including building and contents payments); or (2) two or more separate claim
payments (building payments only) where the total of the payments exceeds the
current market value of the property. In either case, two of the claim payments
must have occurred within ten years of each other. Multiple losses at the same
location within ten days of each other are counted as one loss, with the
payment amounts added together.
   SHEET FLOW AREA. See AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). That portion of the floodplain subject to
inundation by the base flood and/or flood-related erosion hazards as shown on a
FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AE, Al-A30, AH, AO, or AR.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. (Includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development). The date a building permit is issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
placement or other improvement is within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
(including manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings, the installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of
streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement,
footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; the
installation on the property of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division, for the purposes of sale, lease, or development,
either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms and
conditions, of any tract or parcel of land into two or more lots or parcels.
   SUBROGATION. A legal action brought by FEMA to recover insurance money paid
out where all or part of the damage can be attributed to acts or omissions by a
community or other third party.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, taking place during a one-year period in
which the cumulative percentage of improvements equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local Code Enforcement Official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic
structure.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS.
Repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of the streets,
utilities, and pads equaling or exceeding 50% of the value of the streets,
utilities, and pads before the repair, reconstruction, or improvement
commenced.
   SUSPENSION. Removal of a participating community from the NFIP for failure
to enact and/or enforce floodplain management regulations required for
participation in the NFIP.
   UTILITIES. Includes, but is not limited to, electrical, heating,
ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment that service the
structure and the site.
   VARIANCE. Relief from some or all of the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. Failure of a structure or other development to fully comply with
this chapter. A structure or other development without the elevation
certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which water flows at least periodically.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   WATERSHED. All the area within a geographic boundary from which water,
sediments, dissolved materials, and other transportable materials drain or are
carried by water to a common outlet, such as a point on a larger stream, lake,
or underlying aquifer.
   X (SHADED) AND B ZONES. Areas of the 0.2% annual chance (500-year) flood
that are outside of the SFHA, areas subject to the 100-year flood with average
depths of less than one foot or with contributing drainage area less than one
square mile, and areas protected by levees from the base flood.
   X (UN-SHADED) AND C ZONES. Areas determined to be outside the 500-year
floodplain.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or a Flood
Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
(Ord. passed 3-9-2015; Ord. passed 1-7-2021)
§ 151.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas (SFHA), areas
applicable to KRS 151.250, and, as determined by the Floodplain Administrator
or other delegated, designated, or qualified community official as determined
by the City Council from available technical studies, historical information,
and other available and reliable sources, areas within the jurisdiction of the
City Council which may be subject to periodic inundation by flood waters that
can adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare of the
citizens of the city.
(Ord. passed 3-9-2015)
§ 151.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for the city, dated
January 29, 2021 with the accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs), other
supporting data and any subsequent amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of these regulations by the city, and for
those land areas acquired by the city through annexation. This FIS and
attendant mapping is the minimum area of applicability of this chapter and may
be supplemented by studies for other areas which allow implementation of this
chapter and which are recommended to the City Council by the floodplain
regulations. The FIS and/or FIRM are permanent records of the city and are on
file and available for review by the public during regular business hours at
City Hall.
(Ord. passed 3-9-2015; Ord. passed 1-7-2021)
§ 151.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provision of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in the special flood hazard areas (SFHA). See §
151.26 for instructions and explanation.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. passed 3-9-2015; Ord. passed 1-7-2021)
§ 151.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable state regulations. Violation of the
requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing herein
shall prevent the City Council from taking such lawful action as is necessary
to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed 3-9-2015; Ord. passed 1-7-2021) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 3-9-2015; Ord. passed 1-7-2021)
§ 151.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. passed 3-9-2015; Ord. passed 1-7-2021)
§ 151.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the of the city, any officer or
employee, thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. passed 3-9-2015; Ord. passed 1-7-2021)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.25 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Council hereby appoints the Fire Chief or his or her designee to
administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter by granting
or denying development permits in accordance with its provisions, and is herein
referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. passed 3-9-2015; Ord. passed 1-7-2021)
§ 151.26 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or other
development begins within any special flood hazard area established in §
151.07. Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by Floodplain Administrator prior to any development activities, and may
include, but not be limited to, the following: plans in duplicate drawn to
scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in
question; existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage
facilities; and the location of the foregoing. Endorsement of Floodplain
Administrator is required before a state floodplain construction permit can be
processed. Specifically, the following information is required.
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level (MSL) of the
proposed lowest floor (including basement) of all structures in Zone A and
elevation of highest adjacent grade; or
      (2)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure will be floodproofed;
      (3)   All appropriate certifications from a registered professional
engineer or architect that the non-residential floodproofed structure will meet
the floodproofing criteria in §§
151.41(B) and
151.43(B);
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (B)   Construction stage.
      (1)   Upon placement of the lowest floor, and before construction
continues, or floodproofing by whatever construction means, it shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator and to the
state a certification of the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofed
elevation, as built, in relation to mean sea level. In AE, A1-30, AH, and A
zones where the community has adopted a regulatory base flood elevation, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same.
      (2)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
certified professional engineer or architect. Any continued work undertaken
prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder’s
risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor and
floodproofing elevation survey data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further
progressive work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or
failure to make said corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop
work order for the project.
(Ord. passed 3-9-2015; Ord. passed 1-7-2021)
§ 151.27 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator and/or staff is hereby appointed, authorized
and directed to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. The Floodplain Administrator is further authorized to render
interpretations of this chapter, which are consistent with its spirit and
purpose by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions. The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
shall include, but not be limited to the following:
   (A)   Permit review. Review all development permits to ensure that:
      (1)   Permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained;
review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have been
received from those governmental agencies from which approval is required by
federal or state law, including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act Amendments of 1972 (33 U.S.C. 1334);
      (3)   Flood damages will be reduced in the best possible manner;
      (4)   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of affected watercourses. For purposes of this chapter, ADVERSELY
AFFECTS means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
   (B)   Review and use of any other base flood data.  When base flood
elevation data has not been provided in accordance with §
151.07, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal or
state agency, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
151.40 et seq. Any such information shall be submitted to the City Council for
adoption.
   (C)   Notification of other agencies.
      (1)   Notify adjacent communities, the Kentucky Division of Water, and
any other federal and/or state agencies with statutory or regulatory authority
prior to any alteration or relocation of the watercourse;
      (2)   Submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA); and
      (3)   Assure that the flood- carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse is maintained.
   (D)   Documentation of floodplain development. Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed the following:
      (1)   Certification required by §
151.41(A) (lowest floor elevations) as shown on an accurately completed and
certified elevation certificate. Verify and record the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new
and substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
151.26(B);
      (2)   Certification required by §
151.41(B) (elevation or floodproofing of non-residential structures) as shown
on an accurately completed and certified FEMA floodproofing certificate. Verify
and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the
new and substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed, in
accordance with §
151.26(B);
      (3)   Certification required by §
151.41(C) (elevated structures);
      (4)   Certification of elevation required by §
151.44(A) (subdivision standards);
      (5)   Certification required by §
151.41(E) (floodway encroachments);
      (6)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained;
      (7)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance; and
      (8)   Remedial action. Take action to remedy violations of this chapter
as specified in §
151.99.
   (E)   Map determinations. Make interpretations where needed, as to the exact
location of the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, for example,
where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions.
      (1)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. The
person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
151.47(A)(1);
      (2)   When base flood elevation data and floodway data have not been
provided in accordance with §
151.07, then the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
151.40 et seq.;
      (3)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
Floodplain Administrator shall obtain certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect, in accordance with §
151.41(B)(1);
      (4)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall be
maintained in the office of the Floodplain Administrator and shall be open for
public inspection.
   (F)   Right of entry.
      (1)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the Floodplain Administrator has
reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any structure or upon any
premises any condition or ordinance violation which makes such building,
structure or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the Floodplain
Administrator may enter such building, structure or premises at all reasonable
times to inspect the same or perform any duty imposed upon the floodplain
administrator by this chapter.
      (2)   If such structure or premises are occupied, the Floodplain
Administrator shall first present proper credentials and request entry. If such
building, structure, or premises are unoccupied, he or she shall first make a
reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control
of such request entry.
      (3)   If entry is refused, the Floodplain Administrator shall have
recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
      (4)   When the Floodplain Administrator shall have first obtained a
proper inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no
owner or occupant or any other persons having charge, care or control of any
building, structure, or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is
made as herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the Floodplain
Administrator for the purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this
chapter.
   (G)   Stop work orders. Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work
on any building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the
provisions of this chapter shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in
writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, or to his agent, or to
the person performing the work, and shall state the conditions under which work
may be resumed.
   (H)   Revocation of permits.
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of this chapter, in case there has been any false
statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or
plans on which the permit or approval was based.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon determination
that the construction, erection, alteration, repair, moving, demolition,
installation, or replacement of the structure for which the permit was issued
is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
   (I)   Liability. Any officer, employee, or member of the Floodplain
Administrator’s staff, charged with the enforcement of this chapter, acting for
the applicable governing authority in the discharge of his or her duties, shall
not thereby render personally liable, and is hereby relieved from all personal
liability, for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of
any act required or permitted in the discharge of his or her duties. Any suit
brought against any officer, employee, or member because of such act performed
by him or her in the enforcement of any provision of this chapter shall be
defended by the Department of Law until the final termination of the
proceedings.
   (J)   Expiration of floodplain construction permit. A floodplain development
permit, and all provisions contained therein, shall expire if the start of
construction has not occurred within 180 calendar days from the date of its
issuance.
(Ord. passed 3-9-2015; Ord. passed 1-7-2021)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.40 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
and lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air condition equipment,
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding; and if within Zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage
paths around structures on slopes to guide flood waters around and away from
proposed structures.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall
meet the requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter.
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter,
shall be undertaken only if said nonconformity is not furthered, extended, or
replaced.
(Ord. passed 3-9-2015; Ord. passed 1-7-2021)
§ 151.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation data have been
provided, as set forth in §
151.07, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured home) shall have the
lowest floor, including basement, mechanical equipment, and ductwork elevated
no lower than one foot above the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation
perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to
facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic flood forces on walls shall be
provided in accordance with standards of division (C) below.
      (1)   In an AO zone, the lowest floor shall be elevated above the highest
adjacent grade to a height equal to or higher than the depth number specified
in feet on the FIRM, or elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent
grade if no depth number is specified.
      (2)   In an A zone, where no technical data has been produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Floodplain Administrator will
determine the method by which base flood elevations are determined. Methods
include, but are not limited to, detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analyses,
use of existing data available from other sources, approximate methods, use of
historical data, and best supportable and reasonable judgment in the event no
data can be produced. The lowest floor shall be elevated no lower than one foot
above such base flood elevation. Title 401 KAR, Chapter 4, Regulation 060, § 5
(5)a, states as a part of the technical requirements for a state floodplain
permit: The applicant shall provide cross-sections for determining floodway
boundaries (and thereby base flood elevations) at any proposed construction
site where FEMA maps are not available. All cross-sections shall be referenced
to mean sea level and shall have vertical error tolerances of no more than +
five-tenths (0.5) foot. Cross-section elevations shall be taken at those points
which represent significant breaks in slope and at points where hydraulic
characteristics of the base floodplain change. Each cross-section shall extend
across the entire base floodplain and shall be in the number and at the
locations specified by the Cabinet. If necessary to ensure that significant
flood damage will not occur, the Cabinet may require additional cross-sections
or specific site elevations which extend beyond those needed for making routine
regulatory floodway boundary calculations.
      (3)   In all other zones, elevated one foot above the base flood
elevation. Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor, and verified by the community building inspection
department to be properly elevated. Such certification and verification shall
be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure
(including manufactured homes used for non- residential purposes) shall be
elevated to conform with division (A) above or together with attendant utility
and sanitary facilities:
      (1)   Be flood proofed to an elevation one foot above the level of the
base flood elevation so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy and debris;
      (3)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this section are satisfied. Such certification along with the
design and operational maintenance plans shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator.
      (4)   Manufactured homes shall meet the standards in division (D) below.
      (5)   All new construction and substantial improvement with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor (including basements) that are usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, and which are
subject to flooding, shall be constructed of flood-resistant materials to an
elevation one foot above the base flood elevation, and shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwater. Openings for meeting this requirement
must meet or exceed the standards of division (C) below.
   (C)   Elevated structures. New construction and substantial improvements of
elevated structures on columns, posts, or pilings that include fully enclosed
areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the lowest floor
shall be designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow for
the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls.
      (1)   Openings for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or higher
than the exterior foundation grade); and
         (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
      (2)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door), limited storage of maintenance equipment
used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door), or entry to the
living area (stairway or elevator).
      (3)   The interior portion of such enclosed areas shall not be finished
or partitioned into separate rooms.
   (D)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   (a)   All new and substantially improved manufactured homes placed
on sites located within A, A1-30, AO, AH, and AE zones on the community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must meet all the requirements for new construction,
including elevation and anchoring. Locations include:
            1.   On individual lots or parcels,
            2.   In expansions to existing manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
            3.   In new manufactured home parks or subdivisions;
            4.   In substantially improved manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
            5.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; and
            6.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site
upon which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of
a flood.
         (b)   All such manufactured homes must:
            1.   Be elevated on a permanent foundation;
            2.   Have its lowest floor elevated no lower than one foot above
the level of the base flood elevation; and
            3.   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (2)   Except manufactured homes that have incurred substantial damage as
a result of a flood, all manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in
an existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated so that the
manufactured home is securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement, so that either the:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower
than one foot above the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less
than 36 inches in height above the highest adjacent grade.
      (3)   (a)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites located within A,
A1-30, AO, AH, and AE zones on the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
must either:
            1.   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
            2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
            3.   Meet the permit requirements for new construction of this
chapter, including anchoring and elevation requirements for manufactured homes.
         (b)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is
licensed and insured in accordance with the State of Kentucky motor vehicle
regulations, is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only
by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently
attached additions.
   (E)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
151.07 are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential, the following provisions
shall apply:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other developments unless certification (with
supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in the base
flood elevation levels during occurrence of base flood discharge;
      (2)   If this division (E) is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements and other proposed new development shall comply with
all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this subchapter.
   (F)   Standards for utilities.
      (1)   All new and replacement water supply and sanitary sewage systems
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate:
         (a)   Infiltration of flood waters into the systems; and
         (b)   Discharge from the systems into flood waters.
      (2)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them, or contamination from them during flood.
(Ord. passed 3-9-2015; Ord. passed 1-7-2021)
§ 151.42 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
151.07, where streams exist but where no base flood data has been provided or
where base flood data has been provided without floodways, the following
provisions apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures shall be
located within special flood hazard areas, unless certification by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community. The engineering
certification should be supported by technical data that conforms to standard
hydraulic engineering principles.
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvements of structures shall be
elevated or flood proofed to elevations established in accordance with §
151.07.
(Ord. passed 3-9-2015; Ord. passed 1-7-2021)
§ 151.43 STANDARDS FOR SHALLOW FLOODING ZONES.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
151.07 are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have flood
hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet, where a clearly
defined channel does not exist and the water path of flooding is unpredictable
and indeterminate; therefore, the following provisions apply:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above either the base flood elevation or, in Zone AO, the flood depth specified
on the Flood Insurance Rate Map above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO,
if no flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map, above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO, if no
flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely floodproofed either to the base flood elevation or above or, in Zone
AO, to or above the specified flood depth plus a minimum of one foot so that
any space below that level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
Certification is required as stated in §
151.41(B).
(Ord. passed 3-9-2015; Ord. passed 1-7-2021)
§ 151.44 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard area and the
elevation of the base flood and be consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage;
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards; and
   (D)   In areas where base flood elevation and floodway data is not
available, base flood elevation and floodway data for subdivision proposals and
other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and subdivisions)
greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is the lesser, shall be provided.
   (E)   All subdivision plans will include the elevation of proposed structure
(s) and lowest adjacent grade. If the site is filled above the base flood
elevation, the lowest floor and lowest adjacent grade elevations shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. passed 3-9-2015; Ord. passed 1-7-2021)
§ 151.45 STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES IN ALL ZONES BEGINNING WITH THE
LETTER “A”.
   For all accessory structures in special flood hazard areas designated “A”,
the following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   Must be non-habitable;
   (B)   Must be anchored to resist floatation and lateral movement;
   (C)   Must be provided with flood openings in accordance with the standards
of §
151.41(C);
   (D)   Must be built of flood-resistant materials to one foot above the base
flood elevation;
   (E)   Must elevate utilities one foot above the base flood elevation;
   (F)   Can only be used for storage or parking; and
   (G)   Must not be modified for a different use after permitting.
(Ord. passed 3-9-2015; Ord. passed 1-7-2021)
§ 151.46 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA (100-year floodplain). Construction of
new critical facilities shall not be permissible within the floodway; however,
they may be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated one foot or more above the base flood elevation at the
site. Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. passed 3-9-2015; Ord. passed 1-7-2021)
§ 151.47 APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Nature of variances.
      (1)   The variance criteria set forth in this section are based on the
general principle of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of property
and are not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for a parcel of
property with physical characteristics so unusual that complying with the
requirements of this chapter would create an exceptional hardship to the
applicant or the surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be
unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique
characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the structure, its
inhabitants, or the property owners.
      (2)   It is the duty of the City Council to help protect its citizens
from flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of
insuring a structure built below flood level is so serious that variances from
the flood elevation or from other requirements in this chapter are quite rare.
The long-term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can only be
met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance guidelines
provided in this chapter are more detailed and contain multiple provisions that
must be met before a variance can be properly granted. The criteria are
designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives other than a
variance are more appropriate.
   (B)   Designation of Variance and Appeal Board. City Council shall establish
a Variance and Appeal Board consisting of City Fire Chief and designees of the
Council.
   (C)   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board.
      (1)   The Variance and Appeal Board shall hear and decide requests for
variances from the requirements of this chapter and appeals of decisions or
determinations made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Variance and Appeal
Board may appeal such decision to the Circuit Court, as provided in Kentucky
Revised Statutes.
   (D)   Variance procedures. In passing upon such applications, the Variance
and Appeal Board shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant
factors, all standards specified in other sections of this chapter, and the:
      (1)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
      (2)   Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
      (4)   Importance to the community of the services provided by the
existing or proposed facility;
      (5)   Necessity that the facility be located on a waterfront, in the case
of functionally dependent use;
      (6)   Availability of alternative locations, which are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
      (10)   Expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
      (11)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, water systems, streets, and bridges and
culverts.
   (E)   Conditions for variances. Upon consideration of the factors listed
above and the purposes of this chapter, the Variance and Appeal Board may
attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to
further the purposes of this chapter.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway
if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. MINIMUM NECESSARY means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation
from the requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to
an elevation requirement, this means the City Council need not grant permission
for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the
applicant proposes, but only to that elevation which the City Council believes
will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the local ordinance.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood height, additional threats to public safety, cause
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance (as defined in §
151.05 under PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE), cause fraud or victimization of the
public (as defined in §
151.05) or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (4)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
lowest floor being situated below the base flood elevation.
      (5)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) upon request.
      (6)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement, and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use provided that the provisions of division (D) of this
section are satisfied and that the structure or other development is protected
by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and does not
result in additional threats to public safety and does not create a public
nuisance.
   (F)   Variance notification. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted
shall be given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the City Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance or denial, and
report such variances issued in the community’s biennial report submission to
the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (G)   Historic structures. Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of historic structures (see definition in §
151.05) upon determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not
preclude the structure’s continued designation as an historic structure and the
variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design
of the structure.
(Ord. passed 3-9-2015; Ord. passed 1-7-2021)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil offense. If, at any time, development occurs which is not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying
with the terms and conditions of a floodplain development permit and any
approved modifications, such development shall constitute a civil offense.
   (B)   Notice of violation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain development permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator shall issue
a notice to the person responsible for the violation and/or the property owner,
stating the facts of the offense or violation, the section of this chapter and/
or of the permit violated, when it occurred, how the violation is to be
remedied to bring the development into conformity with this chapter or with the
approved permit, and within what period of time the remedy is to occur, which
period of time shall be reasonable and shall be determined by the nature of the
violation and whether or not it creates a nuisance or hazard. The remedy may
include an order to stop work on the development. The notice shall also state
that a citation may be forthcoming in the event that the requested remedies and
corrective actions are not taken, which citation will request a civil monetary
fine and shall state the maximum fine which could be imposed. See division (C)
below.
   (C)   Notice of citation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain development permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator may issue a
citation to the offender stating the violation, prior notices of violation
issued, how the violation is to be remedied to bring the development into
conformity with this chapter or with the approved permit, and within what
period of time the remedy is to occur, and what penalty or penalties are
recommended. When a citation is issued, the person to whom the citation is
issued shall respond to the citation within seven days of the date the citation
is issued by either carrying out the remedies and corrections set forth in the
citation, paying the civil fine set forth in the citation or requesting a
hearing before the governing body. If the person to whom the citation is issued
does not respond to the citation within seven days, that person shall be deemed
to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a violation
occurred shall be considered final.
   (D)   Penalties. Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to
comply with any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and
safeguards established in connection with granting of a variance or special
exceptions, shall constitute a misdemeanor civil offense. Any person who
violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined no less than $1,000 or imprisoned for not
more than 30 days, or both, and in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses
involved in the case. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Floodplain
Administrator from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent
or remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed 3-9-2015; Ord. passed 1-7-2021)
CHAPTER 152: PLANNING
Section
Major Street Plan
   
152.01   Adoption by reference
Cross-reference:
   City Planning Commission, see §§
35.015 through
35.020
MAJOR STREET PLAN
§ 152.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Major Street Plan adopted by the Planning Commission is hereby accepted,
approved, and adopted by reference as the official Major Street Plan in and for
the city, and that a true copy of the Major Street Plan is certified to the
County Court Clerk and recorded in the office of the County Court Clerk.
(1995 Code, § 152.01) (Res. passed 7-15-1963)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
153.01   Adoption by reference
§ 153.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The subdivision regulations adopted by the Planning Commission is hereby
accepted, approved, and adopted by reference as the official subdivision
regulations in and for the city, and that a true copy of the subdivision
regulations is certified to the County Court Clerk and recorded in the office
of the County Court Clerk.
(1995 Code, § 153.01) (Res. passed 7-15-1963)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING CODE
Section
   
154.01   Adoption by reference
   
154.02   Schedule of rates and fees relative to zoning
§ 154.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Code of Zoning Ordinances and its amendments are hereby adopted by the
City Council and incorporated by reference in this chapter and is applicable to
all persons, corporations, firms, associations, structures, and realty in the
city.
(1995 Code, § 154.01) (Ord. passed 10-15-1990)
§ 154.02 SCHEDULE OF RATES AND FEES RELATIVE TO ZONING.
Suggested Permit Fees
Type of Permit Fee
Suggested Permit Fees
Type of Permit                                                                   Fee
Zoning map change                                                                $200
Plats
Final plat                                                                       $100 + $5
                                                                                 per lot
Minor plat                                                                       $100 + $5
                                                                                 per lot
                                                                                 $200 +
Preliminary plat (subdivision)                                                   $10 per
                                                                                 lot
Conditional Use Permits
Business zones                                                                   $200
Industrial zones                                                                 $500
Park zone                                                                        $100
Residential zones (except yard sales)                                            $25
Type II mobile home                                                              $100
Miscellaneous
Appeals                                                                          $100 per
                                                                                 hearing
Certificate of occupancy                                                         $10
Compensation to Board of Adjustment members                                      No charge
Compensation to Planning Commission members                                      No charge
Copies of regulations                                                            $20 per
                                                                                 copy
Dimensional variance                                                             $100
Planned unit development                                                         $200 + 10
                                                                                 per unit
Special Meetings
Compensation for special meeting to review plat to hear zone change or variance shall be
paid by the one requesting such meeting at the following rates (special meetings are
necessary only when the issue will not wait until a regular meeting).
Certificate of land use restriction                                              $20
Compensation to Attorney                                                         $60 per
                                                                                 hour
Compensation to Board’s Secretary                                              $20 per
                                                                                 hour
Compensation to Codes Enforcement Officer                                        $50 per
                                                                                 meeting
Compensation to members for attendance at special meeting                        $50 per
                                                                                 meeting
Special meeting                                                                  $100 per
                                                                                 meeting
Development Permits (Building, Demolition, or Remodeling)
Residential
Demolition                                                                       $15
Garages                                                                          $15
New home construction (single or multi)                                          $25 per
                                                                                 unit
Remodeling that adds floor space                                                 $15
                                                                                 No fee
Remodeling that does not add space                                               but
                                                                                 permit
                                                                                 required
Storage rooms or sheds                                                           $15
Business
Building demolition signs                                                        $50
Changes in parking lots or street access                                         $20
Demolition of fences or other buffers                                            $20
Loading docks                                                                    $20
New building construction                                                        No charge
                                                                                 $0.25 per
Storage facilities                                                               square
                                                                                 foot
Street access                                                                    $20
Substantial remodeling                                                           No charge
Temporary mobile homes (office/storage)                                          $100
Temporary
Accessory uses for professional offices or home occupations as specified in §§ $25
652(2) and 653(2)
Building construction                                                            No charge
Business signs                                                                   No charge
Directional sign (1120 e.)                                                       No charge
Group dwelling (1120 f.)                                                         No charge
Identifying sign (1120 d.) (public facilities)                                   No charge
Lease or sale of real estate                                                     No charge
                                                                                 May be
                                                                                 posted 60
                                                                                 days
                                                                                 before
                                                                                 election;
Political signs per candidate                                                    removed
                                                                                 five days
                                                                                 after
                                                                                 election;
                                                                                 $5 charge
                                                                                 if not
                                                                                 done
Subdivision                                                                      No charge
Yard sale signs are included with permit at an additional charge
Industrial (same as business above)
Mobile Homes
Type I                                                                           $100
Type II                                                                          $200
 
(1995 Code, § 154.02) (Ord. passed 7-8-1991)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   CONDEMNATION OF PROPERTY
      
III.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
IV.   EASEMENTS
      
V.   FRANCHISES
      
VI.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
VII.   STREET AND ALLEY CLOSINGS
      
VIII.   STREET NAME CHANGES
      
IX.   ZONING
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
             Annexing certain property beginning at a stake on Mile Branch near a
Ord.  11-2-  small sycamore and an 8 by 12 foot rock on south side of the branch with
      1954   a cross marked on it from the stake, bears south 45 east a distance of
             seven feet.
             Annexing certain property beginning at a dead water birch stump and
Ord.  4-14-  forked elm standing on the south bank of the Cumberland River at low
      1955   water mark, the same being an old common corner between Pine Mountain
             Coal and Iron Company and J.J. Gibson’s heirs.
Ord.  9-4-   Annexing certain property lying between the centerline of Cumberland
      1958   River and the city’s boundary line along the old U.S. Highway 25 east.
      9-7-   Annexing certain property beginning at the south end of the Cumberland
Ord.  1961   Avenue sidewalk, which point is also the beginning of the South
             Cumberland cut-off.
             Annexing certain property beginning at a cross cut on a stone near an
Ord.  5-3-   iron rod driven in the ground on the south bank of Mile Branch about 340
      1965   feet from the center of U.S. Highway 25 east near the mouth of Mile
             Branch.
             Annexing certain territory beginning at a stake at the east edge of the
Ord.  7-6-   Straight Creek Road on line of the Morris and Jones Addition and on the
      1970   line of the A.J. Asher 442.46-acre tract of land conveyed to him by
             Straight Creek Coal and Coke Company.
Ord.  2-27-  Annexing certain territory beginning at the end and extent of Highland
      1978   Avenue and the Newton Housing Project.
Ord.  12-13- Annexing certain properties:
      1982
           Tract one. Beginning at a point in the south right-of-way of Kentucky
             Highway 66 in the west right- of-way of Clover Avenue.
           Tract two. Beginning at a steel pin at the southeast corner of said
             tract, containing 2.974 acres.
Ord.  12-21- Annexing certain property owned by Mapco Petroleum, Inc. (Mapco),
      1992   located on Highway 25 east.
Ord.  4-26-  Annexation of the Arthur Ray Jordan property in Newtown.
      1996
Ord.  9-13-  Annexation of real estate containing approximately 165 acres in the
      2004   vicinity of WWGC.
Ord.  11-18- Annexation of unincorporated real property in the area of Turkey Creek.
      2010
Res.  9-10-  Adopting a modern legal description of territory previously annexed by
      2012   the city.
Ord.  4-9-   Annexation of property located in Pine Mountain State Resort Park.
      2013
Ord.  8-29-  Annexation of unincorporated real property area of approximately 560.858
      2013   acres of the Pine Mountain State Resort Park.
Ord.  8-29-  Annexation of unincorporated real property in the area of Turkey Creek.
      2013
Res.  1-12-  Resolution for Turkey Creek/Round Top property.
      2015
      1-9-   Annexation of existing right-of-way of U.S. 25 east from the existing
Ord.  2017   city limit line at the Wasioto Winds Golf Course to the south entrance
             of Bell County High School.
      2-13-  Annexation of unincorporated property approximately 40 acres lying
Ord.  2017   between the current city limit line north of the floodwall and reaching
             just north of Turkey Creek.
Ord.  6-27-  Annexation of Pineville Mart.
      2018
Ord.  2-11-  Intent to annex unincorporated territory in the vicinity of Highway 119
      2019   Corridor to Page Elementary School.
Ord.  9-20-  Annexing unincorporated territory containing approximately 102.94 acres
2021- 2021   from Page Elementary School to State Highway 987 at the junction of US
06           Route 119.
Ord.  11-11- Annexing property containing 102.882 acres, more or less, beginning at a
2024- 2024   point south of the Bell County District of Finance and continuing to
01           water plant, lying adjacent and contiguous to the existing city limits.
            
 
TABLE II: CONDEMNATION OF PROPERTY
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Condemning the bridge across Cumberland River,
Ord.          10-4-1954   leading from the east end of Kentucky Avenue to the
                          present Louisville and Nashville passenger station.
                          Condemning and securing clear title of Tract 109 in
Ord.          4-29-1955   the name of Millard Johnson for the flood control
                          program.
Ord.          8-8-1955    Condemning all lands in Wallsend, not heretofore
                          purchased, for flood control right-of-way.
                          Condemning certain land being Tracts 108-A, 112-A,
Ord.          10-3-1955   115-A, 103, 115, 118-1, 118-1CE, 118-2, 118-2CE, 109-
                          B, 109-CE-1, and 109-CE-2.
Ord.          6-7-1976    Condemning certain property in the Newtown Community
                          development area.
                         
 
TABLE III: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
Ord.  5-7-   Authorizing the execution of a specific contract with the State Agency of the
      1956   Old Age and Survivors Insurance system.
Ord.  9-3-   Authorizing the execution of a contract with the Kentucky Utilities Company for
      1956   operation of city’s floodwall pumping stations.
Ord.  9-17-  Authorizing a supplemental agreement with Kentucky Utilities Company for power
      1957   service.
      12-3-  Authorizing the execution of a cooperation agreement between the Municipal
Ord.  1959   Housing Commission and the city in connection with the development of low- rent
             housing units.
Ord.  - -    Authorizing an agreement with Helton Sanitation, Inc. for right to pick up and
             dispose of residential and commercial garbage within the city.
             Approving a joint and cooperative program for self- insurance, insurance, and
      7-12-  the investment of public funds among various cities, urban- county government
Ord.  1993   and other public agencies within the Commonwealth, and authorizing the
             execution of the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement to establish the Kentucky
             Municipal Risk Management Association.
Ord.  12-22- Memorandum of Agreement to provide public records and enforcement systems for
      1994   the implementation of an Ethics Code.
             Authorizing an interlocal agreement along with other participating counties,
Res.  9-11-  cities, and sheriff’s departments, to be funded and administered by UNITE, and
      2006   to take such further steps as are necessary to fully participate in the UNITE
             project.
Res.  6-8-   Authorizing an agreement with the Department for Local Government for the Main
      2009   Street Program.
Res.  8-11-  Authorizing an agreement with the Department for Local Government for Projects
      2009   and/or Equipment.
Res.  12-14- Authorizing an agreement with the Department for Local Government for energy
      2009   efficiency and conservation block grant.
Res.  2-13-  Authorizing an assistance agreement with the Kentucky Infrastructure Authority.
      2012
Res.  3-12-  Authorizing an agreement with the Governor’s Office for Local Development
      2012   concerning the Pineville Fire Department.
Res.  4-14-  Authorizing agreement with the Kentucky Office of Homeland Security to
001   2014   administer a project.
Ord.  4-13-  Contract for electrical inspection and permitting services with the electrical
      2015   inspector.
Res.  6-8-   Authorizing agreement with the Department for Local Government for City
      2015   Projects and Equipment.
Res.  9-14-  Adoption of the Main Street Pineville/City of Pineville Small Business and
      2015   Property Incentive Package.
Res.  11-9-  Authorizing agreement with the Kentucky Office of Homeland Security concerning
002   2015   a Law Enforcement Protection Program.
Ord.  12-14- Agreement with the state’s Tourism, Arts, and Heritage Cabinet, Department of
      2015   Parks concerning a sign at Pine Mountain State Resort Park.
Res.  1-25-  Authorizing the Main Street Pineville Wayfinding Signage Project.
      2016
      9-12-  Authorizing assistance agreement with the Kentucky Rural Water Finance
Res.  2016   Corporation for the purpose of refinancing and currently refunding certain
             obligations of the city.
      9-12-  Authorizing an assistance agreement with the Kentucky Rural Water Finance
Res.  2016   Corporation for the purpose of financing a construction project for the city’s
             water and sewer system.
      9-12-  Authorizing an assistance agreement with the Kentucky Rural Water Finance
Res.  2016   Corporation for the purpose of refinancing and currently refunding certain
             obligations of the city.
Res.  11-7-  Authorizing an assistance agreement between the city and the Kentucky
      2016   Infrastructure Authority or provide a loan for wastewater system improvements.
Res.  11-14- Authorizing agreement with the Kentucky Office of Homeland Security to
003   2016   administer a project.
Res.  5-21-  Authorizing an assistance agreement between the city and the Kentucky
      2018   Infrastructure Authority.
      11-18- Adopting and approving the execution of a memorandum agreement between the
Res.  2019   pineville City Council and the Commonwealth of Kentucky Transportation Cabinet,
             Department of Highways.
            
 
TABLE IV: EASEMENTS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.          2-1-1954    Acquisition of rights- of-way for floodwall,
                          furnishing rights-of- way and construction easements.
Ord.          3-6-1972    Easement agreement for right-of-way to Brandenburg
                          and Gibson building warehouse.
Ord.          8-6-1973    Release of an easement in and upon lots 21 through 24
                          in block 5 of the Hull and Barclay Addition.
                         
 
TABLE V: FRANCHISES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.          11-7-1961   Granting a gas franchise to the Pineville Gas
                          Company.
Ord.          10-4-1965   Granting a franchise for television cable system to
                          Harold C. Bailey dba TV Cable Service Company.
Ord.          10-3-1966   Granting a gas franchise to the Pineville Gas
                          Company.
Ord.          11-8-1976   Granting a franchise to Kentucky Utilities Company
                          for electricity.
Ord.          4-11-1988   Awarding a garbage franchise to Poff Brothers
                          Sanitation, Inc.
                          Granting a cable television franchise to Tele-Media
Ord.          12-12-1988  Company to operate a cable television system within
                          the city.
Ord.          8-9-1994    Granting a franchise to Kentucky Utilities Company
                          for electricity.
                         
 
TABLE VI: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. Date       Description
No.       Passed
                     Conveyance of title to all property and permanent
Ord.      2-1-1954   easements acquired by the city for the construction of
                     Pineville flood wall.
                     Acquisition of fee simple title to tracts 90A, 109, 112,
Ord.      6-6-1955   and 105B for the completion of the Pineville Local Flood
                     Protection Project.
                     Acquisition of fee simple title to tracts 118-3 and 114-
Ord.      11-1-1955  A for the completion of the Pineville Local Flood
                     Protection Project.
                     Conveyance of certain streets in the city to the state to
Ord.      5-23-1957  be a part of the state maintained highway system of the
                     state.
                     Conveyance of certain streets in the city to the state to
Ord.      11-9-1957  be a part of the state maintained highway system of the
                     state.
                     Conveyance of a certain parcel of land on the south side
Ord.      9-7-1961   of Kentucky Avenue to the Municipal Housing Commission for
                     construction of low rent housing units.
Ord.      5-9-1988   Issuance of quitclaim deed to the Corps of Engineers for
                     Tract 534 upper Cumberland River.
Ord.      10-13-2008 Deed of conveyance for property located near Spruce Street
                     and Tennessee Avenue.
Ord.      12-8-2008  Deed of conveyance for land connected to an alleyway in
                     block P of Pineville Land and Lumber Company’s Addition.
Ord.      1-27-2009  Deed of conveyance for property located near Tennessee
                     Avenue.
Ord.      11-8-2010  Issuance of quitclaim deed to Bell-Whitley Community
                     Action Agency, Inc. for an alley way.
                    
 
TABLE VII: STREET AND ALLEY CLOSINGS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./    Date   Description
Res. No. Passed
Ord.     10-3-  Closing of certain streets in the Wallsend section of the city.
         1955
Ord.     4-3-   Closing of Cumberland Avenue from a point just south of the residence of
         1956   Pearl Moore.
Ord.     4-28-  Ordinance amending ordinance passed 4-3-1956.
         1956
                Closing an alleyway (15 feet wide) which extends through block W of the
         9-4-   Pineville Land and Lumber Company’s Addition. Closing an alleyway (15 feet
Ord.     1962   wide) which extends a distance of 160 feet from the south line of Kentucky
                Avenue in a southerly direction to the north line of another alley in block
                D of the Pineville Land and Lumber Company’s Addition.
Ord.     11-8-  Closing a segment of Valley Road.
         1965
Ord.     6-7-   Closing an alley between Cedar Street and Spruce Street, running from
         1971   Tennessee Avenue west.
Ord.     10-2-  Closing a portion of Alabama Avenue.
         1972
Ord.     11-3-  Closing an alley (18 feet wide) and extending from the south line of Cypress
         1980   Street to the north side of Birch Avenue.
Ord.     12-1-  Closing certain alleyways in Newtown section of the city.
         1986
         3-16-  Closing a portion of an alleyway as intersects Walnut Street immediately
Ord.     1987   behind the present city municipal parking lot and runs behind the said lot
                to intersect with Pine Street.
Ord.     - -    Closing a portion of a ten-foot alley in the Newtown section of the city.
Ord.     1-31-  Closing certain alleyways in the Hull and Barclay Addition.
         1991
Ord. 06- 6-10-
16VII13- 2006   Closing the KFC alley.
01
Ord.     9-10-  Closing the public way located at or near Spruce Street.
         2007
Ord.     10-13- Closing the public way located at the centerline intersection of Spruce
         2008   Street and Tennessee Avenue.
Ord.     12-8-  Closing public way at Block P, Tennessee Avenue South and Alabama Avenue.
         2008
Ord.     9-2-   Closing a portion of a ten-foot alley located in the Morris and Jones
         2010   Addition.
Ord.     6-1-   Closing alley or public way between the Bell County Jail and the city
         2016   parking lot.
Ord.     7-11-  Closing the public way located at 301 West Tennessee Avenue.
         2022
Ord.     7-11-  Closing the public way located at 310 2nd Street.
         2022
               
 
TABLE VIII: STREET NAME CHANGES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
      9-7-   Changing the name of the thoroughfare known as New U.S. Highway 25 East,
Ord.  1954   which runs from near the corner of D.L. Cornn’s garage to the southeastern
             limits of the city to Festival Drive.
Ord.  8-6-   Changing the name of that portion of U.S. Highway 25 East which runs through
      1956   the south portion of Highlands Subdivision to Dixie Drive.
           The street running just back of Pineville Hospital, and running in an
             slightly southeasterly direction shall be known as Summitt Drive.
             The unnamed street which begins at the south terminus of Summitt Drive and
           runs west therefrom until it intersects Spruce Street shall be known as
             Lynnwood Terrace.
           The street which begins at the north end of Summitt Drive and extends
             westerly to Mile Branch shall be known as Valley Road.
           The semi-circular street lying practically in the center of Highlands
             Subdivision shall be known as Ridgewood Circle.
Ord.  9-12-
2022- 2022   Changing the name of Quarry Road to Hilltop Road.
05
            
 
TABLE IX: ZONING
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.          4-8-1996    Changing Epperson Property from R-1 to B-3.
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to 1995 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Cites Code Section
KRS Cites                         Code Section
6.050                             32.43
6.955 to 6.975                    33.04
Chapter 13A                       93.02
Chapter 13B                       93.06,
                                  114.046
18A.225                           112.03
Chapter 31                        34.26
42.450 to 42.495                  33.04
Chapter 45A                       34.26
45A.370 through 45A.375           33.42
Chapter 56                        34.26
Chapter 61                        32.16
61.168                            34.26
61.169                            34.26
61.420                            38.02
61.460                            38.02
61.470                            38.02
61.823(2) - (4)                   91.035
61.870                            34.01
61.870(1)                         34.01
61.870(1)(h)                      34.01
61.870 to 61.882                  31.31
61.870 to 61.884                  34.27
61.872(1)                         34.15
61.872(2)                         34.15
61.872(3)                         34.16
61.872(4)                         34.17
61.872(5)                         34.18
61.874(1)                         34.15
61.874(1) - (3)                   34.22
61.874(3)                         34.23
61.874(4)                         34.23
61.874(5)                         34.24
61.874(6)                         34.25
61.878                            34.01
61.878(1)                         34.26
61.878(1)(a) - (l), (o), (q), (s) 34.26
61.878(2) - (6)                   34.26
61.880                            34.19
61.884                            34.21
62.060                            31.01
Chapter 65                        41.01
65.8838(1)(b)                     92.01
65.8838(1)(e)                     92.01
65.8838(1)(h)                     92.01
65.8838(1)(j)                     92.01
65.8838(3)                        92.04
65.8838(4)                        92.04
65.8838(8)                        92.04
65.8838(9)                        92.04
65.8838(10)                       92.04
80.010                            35.066
80.040                            35.066
Chapter 83A                       31.15
83A.010(5)                        10.02
83A.010(6)                        10.02
83A.010(8)                        10.02
83A.030(1)(b)                     30.02
83A.040(1)                        31.16
83A.040(2)                        31.16
83A.040(2)(c)                     31.16
83A.040(2)(d)                     31.16
83A.040(3)                        31.16
83A.040(4)                        32.01
83A.040(5)                        32.02
83A.040(6)                        31.16,
                                  32.02
83A.040(7)                        32.02,
                                  31.16
83A.040(8)                        32.02,
                                  31.16
83A.040(9)                        31.03
83A.045                           30.02
83A.045(2)                        30.02
83A.050                           30.02,
                                  31.15
83A.060(1)                        32.30
83A.060(2)                        32.31
83A.060(3)                        32.32
83A.060(4)                        32.33
83A.060(5)                        32.35
83A.060(6)                        32.17
83A.060(7)                        32.33
83A.060(8)                        32.36,
                                  32.37
83A.060(9)                        32.38
83A.060(10)                       32.39
83A.060(11)                       32.40
83A.060(12)                       32.41
83A.060(13)                       32.41
83A.060(14)                       32.42
83A.060(15)                       32.43
83A.065                           10.99
83A.070                           31.02
83A.075                           31.02
83A.080                           31.33
83A.080(1)                        31.30
83A.080(2)                        31.30
83A.080(2)                        31.03
83A.080(3)                        31.15
83A.080(4)                        31.15
83A.085                           31.31
83A.130                           31.16
83A.130(1)                        30.01
83A.130(2)                        30.02
83A.130(3)                        31.16
83A.130(4)                        31.16
83A.130(5)                        32.15
83A.130(6)                        32.34
83A.130(7)                        31.16
83A.130(8)                        31.16
83A.130(9)                        31.16
83A.130(10)                       31.16
83A.130(11)                       32.03,
                                  32.16 
83A.130(12)                       32.03
83A.130(13)                       32.03,
                                  39.02
83A.170                           30.02
83A.175                           32.02
91A.010                           33.01
91A.010(4)                        10.02
91A.010(8)                        10.02
91A.020                           33.01
91A.030                           33.03,
                                  33.04
91A.040                           33.04,
                                  33.99
91A.050                           33.04
91A.060                           33.04
91A.080                           110.02
91A.080(2)                        112.02
91A.080(3)                        112.03
91A.080(7)                        112.04
91A.080(8)                        112.04,
                                  112.05
91A.080(9)                        112.04
91A.080(10)                       112.03
91A.080(13)                       112.03
91A.0804                          Chapter 112
91A.200                           33.21
91A.210                           33.20
91A.220                           33.21
91A.230                           33.22
91A.240                           33.23
91A.250                           33.24
91A.260                           33.25
91A.270                           33.25
91A.280                           33.27
91A.290                           33.28
                                  35.095,
91A.350 to 91A.400                35.098,
                                  35.099
91A.390                           35.101
Chapters 92                       150.35
92.305                            150.30,
                                  150.35
95.450                            36.45
95.740                            36.27
96.355                            97.15
Chapter 99                        150.30,
                                  150.35
99.500                            35.080
Chapter 100                       35.015,
                                  151.01
100.131                           35.015
100.133                           35.016
100.147                           35.016
100.157                           35.016
131.010(6)                        112.04
131.190                           34.26
136.120                           38.02,
                                  110.02
139.200                           93.03
151.250                           151.06
Chapter 154                       34.26
154.20-250 to 154.20-284          110.02
174.100                           91.035
174.100(1)                        91.036
174.100(2)                        91.037
174.100(3)                        91.038
174.100(4)                        91.039
174.100(5)                        91.040
177.043 to 177.047                91.075
186.020                           73.21
186.050                           73.21
186.560                           71.35
186A.145                          72.032
186A.190                          72.032
Chapter 189                       73.20
189.010 et seq.                   73.35
189.020                           71.36
189.285                           73.02
189.290                           71.35
189.330(8)                        71.02
189.338                           70.20
189.580                           71.20
189.635(9)(b)1.a. to e.           34.01
189.725                           72.009
189.820                           73.18
189.993(8)                        71.99
Chapter 198B                      150.04 
198B.070                          150.04 
198B.990(1)                       150.99
224.20-720                        73.21
227.330(6)                        93.03
227.550                           92.04
227.700                           93.01
227.700 to 227.750                93.01,
                                  93.06
227.702                           93.01,
                                  93.02
227.704                           93.01
227.706                           93.01
227.708                           93.01
227.710                           93.02
227.715                           93.02,
                                  93.03
227.720                           93.04
227.730                           93.05
227.750                           93.06
227.990(1)                        150.99
227.990(4)                        93.99
                                  114.001,
                                  114.045,
Chapters 241 to 244               114.067,
                                  114.099,
                                  114.100
241.010(37)                       114.017
241.100                           114.045
241.160                           114.045
241.170                           114.045
241.200                           114.069
                                  110.02,
Chapter 243                       114.017,
                                  114.018
243.070                           114.016
243.075                           114.029
243.090                           114.026
243.260                           114.023
243.450                           114.069
243.480                           114.999
243.490                           114.069
243.500                           114.069
243.550                           114.068
243.850                           114.070
243.895                           114.093
244.050                           114.100
244.085                           114.099
244.085(6)                        114.099
244.090                           114.095,
                                  114.099
244.090(2)                        114.095
244.130                           114.103
244.150                           114.045
244.500                           114.088
257.010                           90.01
257.100                           90.07
281.920 to 281.936                72.032
281.928                           72.032
Chapter 304, Subtitle 17B         112.03
304.39-080                        73.19
318.990                           150.99
Chapter 342                       112.03
Chapter 344.015                   40.04
359.230                           72.032
376.275(1)                        72.032
411.500 through 411.570           Chapter 92
Chapter 416                       150.35
                                  33.04,
Chapter 424                       33.24,
                                  33.25,
                                  114.060
424.120                           33.04
424.170                           114.060
424.190(2)                        33.04
424.220                           33.04
424.260                           33.40
436.600                           90.05,
                                  90.99
446.010(1)                        10.02
446.010(2)                        10.02
446.010(9)                        10.02
446.010(10)                       10.02
446.010(12)                       10.02
446.010(13)                       10.02
446.010(14)                       10.02
446.010(15)                       10.02
446.010(17)                       10.02
446.010(18)                       10.02
446.010(23)                       10.02
446.010(25)                       10.02
446.010(26)                       10.02
446.010(27)                       10.02
446.010(28)                       10.02
446.010(30)                       10.02
446.010(31)                       10.02
446.010(33)                       10.02
446.010(37)                       10.02
446.010(39)                       10.02
446.010(43)                       10.02
446.010(46)                       10.02
446.010(47)                       10.02
446.010(49)                       10.02
446.010(55)                       10.02
446.020(1)                        10.03
446.020(2)                        10.03
446.030                           10.03
446.050                           10.05
446.060                           10.06
446.080(1)                        10.03
446.080(3)                        10.03
446.080(4)                        10.03
446.090                           10.07
446.100                           10.08
446.110                           10.09
446.140                           10.01
512.020                           52.006
525.125                           90.03,
                                  90.04
525.130                           90.04
525.130(1)                        90.03
525.130(2)                        90.03
525.130(4)                        90.99
525.130(5)                        90.99
525.135                           90.04,
                                  90.99
534.040                           71.99
534.040(2)(c)                     10.99
635.010 et seq.                   130.99
635.010                           130.99
635.020                           130.99
635.060                           130.99
635.070                           130.99
635.080                           130.99
635.085                           130.99
635.100                           130.99
                                  
 
REFERENCES TO 1995 CODE
1995 Code Section Code Section
1995 Code Section Code Section
11.01             11.01
30.01             30.01
30.02             30.02
31.01             31.01
31.02             31.02
31.03             31.03
31.20             31.15
31.21             31.16
31.22             31.17
31.35             31.30
31.36             31.31
31.37             31.32
31.38             31.33
31.39             31.34
32.01             32.01
32.02             32.02
32.03             32.03
32.04             32.04
32.20             32.15
32.21             32.16
32.22             32.17
32.35             32.30
32.36             32.31
32.37             32.32
32.38             32.33
32.39             32.34
32.40             32.35
32.41             32.36
32.42             32.37
32.43             32.38
32.44             32.39
32.45             32.40
32.46             32.41
32.47             32.42
32.48             32.43
33.01             33.01
33.02             33.02
33.03             33.03
33.04             33.04,
                  33.99
33.05             33.05
33.10             33.20
33.11             33.21
33.12             33.22
33.13             33.23
33.14             33.24
33.15             33.25
33.16             33.26
33.17             33.27
33.18             33.28
33.30             33.40
33.31             33.41
33.33             33.42
34.01             34.01
34.05             34.15
34.06             34.16
34.07             34.17
34.08             34.18
34.09             34.19
34.10             34.20
34.11             34.21
34.12             34.22
34.13             34.23
34.14             34.24
34.15             34.25
34.16             34.26
34.17             34.27
35.015            35.001
35.030            35.015
35.031            35.016
35.032            35.017
35.033            35.018
35.034            35.019
35.035            35.020
35.045            35.035
35.046            35.036
35.047            35.037
35.048            35.038
35.049            35.039
35.050            35.040
35.051            35.041
35.052            35.042
35.053            35.043
35.054            35.044
35.055            35.045
35.056            35.046
35.057            35.047
35.058            35.048
35.059            35.049
35.060            35.050
35.070            35.065
35.071            35.066
35.100            35.080
35.112            35.095
35.113            35.096
35.114            35.097
35.115            35.098
35.116            35.099
35.117            35.100
35.118            35.101
36.01             36.01
36.02             36.02
36.03             36.03
36.04             36.04
36.05             36.05
36.06             36.06
36.07             36.07
36.08             36.08
36.09             36.09
36.10             36.10
36.11             36.11
36.25             36.25
36.26             36.26
36.27             36.27
36.28             36.28
36.29             36.29
36.30             36.30
36.40             36.45
36.41             36.46
36.42             36.47
36.43             36.48
36.44             36.49
37.01             37.01
37.02             37.02
37.03             37.03
37.04             37.04
37.05             37.05
37.06             37.06
37.07             37.07
37.08             37.08
37.09             37.09
37.10             37.10
37.11             37.11
37.12             37.12
37.13             37.13
37.14             37.14
37.15             37.15
37.25             37.30
37.26             37.31
37.27             37.32
37.28             37.33
37.29             37.34
37.30             37.35
37.31             37.36
37.32             37.37
37.33             37.38
37.34             37.39
37.35             37.40
37.36             37.41
37.37             37.42
37.38             37.43
37.39             37.44
37.40             37.45
38.01             38.01
38.02             38.02
38.15             38.15
38.25             38.30
38.26             38.31
38.27             38.32
38.28             38.33
38.29             38.34
38.31             38.35
38.32             38.36
38.99             38.99
39.01             39.01
39.02             39.02
39.03             39.03
39.04             39.04
39.15             39.20
39.30             39.35
39.31             39.36
39.32             39.37
39.33             39.38
39.34             39.39
40.01             40.01
41.01             41.01
50.01             50.01
50.15             50.15
50.16             50.16
50.17             50.17
50.99             50.99
51.01             51.01
52.001            52.001
52.0011           52.002
52.002            52.003
52.004            52.005
52.005            52.006
52.006            52.007
52.007            52.008
52.015            52.020
52.016            52.021
52.017            52.022
52.018            52.023
52.019            52.024
52.020            52.025
52.021            52.026
52.025            52.040
52.026            52.041
52.035            52.055
52.036            52.056
52.037            52.057
52.038            52.058
52.039            52.059
52.040            52.060
52.041            52.061
52.055            52.075
52.056            52.076
52.057            52.077
52.058            52.078
52.059            52.079
52.060            52.080
52.061            52.081
52.062            52.082
52.063            52.083
52.064            52.084
52.065            52.085
52.075            52.100
52.076            52.101
52.077            52.102
52.078            52.103
52.079            52.104
52.080            52.105
52.081            52.106
52.082            52.107
52.083            52.108
52.084            52.109
52.085            52.110
52.086            52.111
52.087            52.112
52.105            52.125
52.106            52.126
52.110            52.140
52.111            52.141
52.112            52.142
52.113            52.143
52.114            52.144
52.115            52.155
52.116            52.156
52.117            52.157
52.118            52.158
52.119            52.159
52.120            52.159
52.121            52.161
52.122            52.162
52.123            52.163
52.124            52.164
52.125            52.165
52.999            52.999
53.003            52.004
70.01             70.01
70.02             70.02
70.03             70.03
70.04             70.04
70.05             70.05
70.15             70.20
70.16             70.21
70.17             70.22
70.18             70.23
70.19             70.24
70.20             70.25
70.21             70.26
70.30             70.40
70.31             70.41
70.99             70.99,
                  72.076
71.01             71.01
71.02             71.02
71.03             71.03
71.04             71.04
71.15             71.20
71.16             71.21
71.25             71.35
71.26             71.36
71.40             71.50
71.41             71.51
71.42             71.52
71.43             71.53
71.44             71.54
71.45             71.55
71.46             71.56
71.47             71.57
71.48             71.58
71.49             71.59
71.50             71.60
71.51             71.61
71.99             71.99
72.01             72.001
72.02             72.002
72.03             72.003
72.04             72.004
72.05             72.005
72.06             72.006
72.07             72.007
72.08             72.008
72.09             72.009
72.10             72.010
72.11             72.011
72.12             72.012
72.13             72.013
72.14             72.014
72.15             72.015
72.16             72.016
72.17             72.017
72.18             72.018
72.30             72.030
72.32             72.032
72.45             72.045
72.46             72.046
72.47             72.047
72.65             72.060
72.66             72.061
72.80             72.075
72.81             72.076
73.01             73.01
73.02             73.02
73.03             73.03
73.04             73.04
73.99             73.99
Ch. 74 Schd. II   Ch. 74 Schd. I
Ch. 74 Schd. III  Ch. 74 Schd. II
Ch. 74 Schd. V    Ch. 74 Schd. III
Ch. 75 Schd. II   Ch. 75 Schd. I
90.07             90.08
90.15             90.20
90.16             90.21
90.17             90.22
90.18             90.23
90.19             90.24
90.20             90.25
90.21             90.26
90.22             90.27
91.01             91.001
91.02             91.002
91.03             91.003
91.04             91.004
91.05             91.005
91.06             91.006
91.07             91.007
91.08             91.008
91.09             91.009
91.10             91.010
91.11             91.011
91.12             91.012
91.13             91.013
91.14             91.014
91.15             91.015
91.16             91.016
91.17             91.017
91.18             91.018
91.19             91.019
91.20             91.020
91.21             91.021
91.50             91.055
91.51             91.056
91.52             91.057
91.53             91.058
91.99             91.999
92.15             92.20
92.16             92.21
92.17             92.22
92.99             92.99
93.22             93.22
93.23             93.22
96.01             96.01
96.02             96.02
96.03             96.03
96.04             96.04
96.05             96.05
96.06             96.06
96.07             96.07
96.20             96.20
96.21             96.21
96.22             96.22
96.23             96.23
96.24             96.24
96.25             96.25
96.99             96.99
98.01             97.01
98.15             97.15
98.99             97.99
116.01            113.01
150.01            150.01
150.02            150.02
150.03            150.03
150.04            150.04
150.15            150.15
150.16            150.16
150.99            150.99
152.01            152.01
153.01            153.01
154.01            154.01
154.02            154.02
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        4-2-1962    37.13
-        7-15-1963   152.01,
                     153.01
-        10-24-1977  39.35—
                     39.39
                     95.01—
-        8-10-1987   95.08,
                     95.99
                     52.002,
-        4-11-1994   52.005,
                     52.076
-        9-11-2006   TSO III
-        6-8-2009    TSO III
-        8-11-2009   TSO III
-        12-14-2009  TSO III
-        2-13-2012   TSO III
-        3-12-2012   TSO III
-        9-10-2012   TSO I
-        1-14-2013   40.03
001      4-14-2014   TSO III
-        1-12-2015   TSO I
-        6-8-2015    TSO III
-        9-14-2015   TSO III
002      11-9-2015   TSO III
-        1-25-2016   TSO III
-        9-12-2016   TSO III
-        9-12-2016   TSO III
-        9-12-2016   TSO III
-        10-10-2016  39.20,
                     39.50
-        10-10-2016  40.04
-        10-10-2016  96.26
-        11-7-2016   TSO III
003      11-14-2016  TSO III
-        5-21-2018   TSO III
-        11-18-2019  TSO III
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.      Date Passed Code Section
-             - -         TSO III
-             - -         TSO VII
-             11-9-1944   150.03
-             1-6-1947    93.22
-             5-1-1950    52.005
-             7-2-1951    91.075
-             2-1-1954    TSO IV
-             2-1-1954    TSO VI
-             3-1-1954    150.02
                          111.01,
-             6-12-1954   111.02,
                          111.99
-             9-7-1954    TSO VIII
-             10-4-1954   TSO II
-             11-2-1954   TSO I
-             4-14-1955   TSO I
-             4-29-1955   TSO II
-             5-2-1955    11.01
-             6-6-1955    TSO VI
-             8-8-1955    TSO II
-             10-3-1955   TSO VII
-             10-3-1955   TSO II
-             11-1-1955   TSO VI
-             12-5-1955   39.04
-             4-3-1956    TSO VII
-             4-28-1956   TSO VII
-             5-7-1956    TSO III
-             8-6-1956    TSO VIII
-             9-3-1956    TSO III
-             5-23-1957   TSO VI
-             9-17-1957   TSO III
-             11-9-1957   TSO VI
-             6-5-1958    35.036—
                          35.050
-             9-4-1958    TSO I
-             11-6-1958   35.065,
                          35.066
-             12-3-1959   TSO III
-             7-6-1961    91.059
-             9-7-1961    TSO I
-             9-7-1961    TSO VI
-             11-7-1961   TSO V
-             9-4-1962    TSO VII
-             5-3-1965    TSO I
-             10-4-1965   TSO V
-             11-8-1965   TSO VII
-             1-3-1966    36.25—
                          36.30
                          37.02,
                          37.03,
-             1-3-1966    37.11,
                          37.12,
                          37.14,
                          37.15
                          50.15—
-             3-14-1966   50.17,
                          50.99
-             10-3-1966   TSO V
-             5-16-1968   150.15,
                          150.16
-             7-7-1969    35.015—
                          35.020
-             8-4-1969    130.01
-             7-6-1970    TSO I
-             11-2-1970   36.11
-             3-8-1971    53.01—
                          53.07
-             6-7-1971    TSO VII
                          70.21—
                          70.23,
                          70.40,
                          70.41,
-             2-18-1972   72.001,
                          72.004,
                          72.014,
                          72.015,
                          72.060,
                          72.061
-             3-6-1972    TSO IV,
                          Ch. 74 Schd. I
                          72.004,
-             5-1-1972    Ch. 74 Schd. II,
                          Ch. 75 Schd. I
-             7-20-1972   50.01
-             8-7-1972    Ch. 74 Schd. II
-             10-2-1972   TSO VII
-             12-18-1972  72.018
-             2-5-1973    Ch. 74 Schd. I
-             5-7-1973    35.035
-             6-4-1973    72.004
-             8-6-1973    TSO IV
-             8-20-1973   Ch. 74 Schd. I
-             3-4-1974    72.017
-             6-7-1976    TSO II
-             11-8-1976   TSO V
-             11-23-1976  53.01
-             11-14-1977  Ch. 74 Schd. II
-             2-27-1978   TSO I
7811          11-14-1978  37.30—
                          37.45
7815          12-28-1978  72.062
-             8-6-1979    32.04,
                          39.01
                          92.20—
7901          8-6-1979    92.22,
                          92.99
7905          9-11-1979   96.01,
                          96.02
-             11-3-1980   TSO VII
-             6-22-1981   97.15
0001          12-7-1981   38.01
0002          12-7-1981   36.45—
                          36.49
-             - -1982     73.02
-             2-8-1982    53.01
0007          5-3-1982    91.001—
                          91.021
-             12-13-1982  TSO I
-             4-9-1984    40.01
-             5-7-1984    53.01
-             1-7-1985    39.02
-             3-11-1985   31.32,
                          32.16
-             12-1-1986   TSO VII
                          52.001,
                          52.003—
                          52.008,
                          52.020—
                          52.026,
                          52.040,
                          52.041,
                          52.055—
-             1- -1987    52.061,
                          52.075—
                          52.085,
                          52.100—
                          52.112,
                          52.125,
                          52.126,
                          52.155—
                          52.165,
                          52.999
-             3-16-1987   TSO VII
-             4-13-1987   90.08
-             10-12-1987  38.02
-             4-11-1988   TSO V
-             5-9-1988    TSO VI
-             7-11-1988   Ch. 74 Schd. II
                          72.004,
-             8-8-1988    72.016,
                          72.075,
                          72.076
-             12-12-1988  TSO V
-             10-15-1990  154.01
-             11-20-1990  35.036
-             1-31-1991   72.004
-             1-31-1991   TSO VII
-             5-13-1991   93.22
-             7-8-1991    113.01
-             7-8-1991    154.02
-             7-13-1992   53.01
-             12-21-1992  30.02
-             12-21-1992  TSO I
                          52.003,
-             4-6-1993    52.140—
                          52.144
-             7-12-1993   TSO III
-             9-13-1993   Ch. 74 Schd. II
                          96.01—
                          96.07,
-             10-14-1993  96.20—
                          96.25,
                          96.99
-             4-29-1994   31.02
-             8-9-1994    TSO V
-             9-15-1994   39.20
-             11-14-1994  130.02,
                          130.99
-             11-18-1994  41.01
-             12-22-1994  TSO III
-             1-12-1995   35.095—
                          35.101
                          38.15,
-             1-12-1995   38.30—
                          38.38,
                          38.99
-             2-13-1995   41.01
-             4-8-1996    TSO IX
-             4-26-1996   TSO I
-             6-10-1996   90.09
-             3-26-1997   40.02
-             4-2-2002    41.01
-             8-16-2004   35.036
-             9-13-2004   TSO I
150.20        2-14-2005   150.30—
                          150.36
06-16VII13-01 6-10-2006   TSO VII
-             8-13-2007   130.02
-             9-10-2007   TSO VII
-             8-11-2008   73.15—
                          73.23
-             10-13-2008  31.35
-             10-13-2008  TSO VI
-             10-13-2008  TSO VII
-             12-8-2008   TSO VI
-             12-8-2008   TSO VII
-             1-27-2009   TSO VI
-             9-22-2009   39.05,
                          39.99
-             9-29-2009   52.142,
                          53.01
-             4-12-2010   97.01
-             9-2-2010    TSO VII
-             11-8-2010   TSO VI
-             11-18-2010  TSO I
-             1-10-2011   73.35,
                          73.36
71.27         3-14-2011   71.37,
                          71.99
71.99         3-14-2011   71.99
-             1-9-2012    11.02
-             1-9-2012    39.20
-             4-9-2013    TSO I
-             8-29-2013   TSO I
-             8-29-2013   TSO I
                          151.01—
                          151.12,
                          151.25—
-             3-9-2015    151.27,
                          151.40—
                          151.47,
                          151.99
-             4-13-2015   TSO III
-             10-12-2015  38.03
-             12-14-2015  TSO III
                          40.15—
-             6-1-2016    40.22,
                          40.99
-             6-1-2016    TSO VII
                          114.001,
                          114.002,
                          114.015—
                          114.030,
                          114.045,
-             11-14-2016  114.046,
                          114.060—
                          114.071,
                          114.085—
                          114.105,
                          114.999
-             1-9-2017    TSO I
-             2-13-2017   TSO I
-             4-10-2017   35.016
-             12-11-2017  Ch. 74 Schd. III
-             3-12-2018   35.115—
                          35.122
-             3-12-2018   39.20
                          111.15—
-             6-25-2018   111.20,
                          111.99
                          115.01—
-             6-25-2018   115.12,
                          115.99
-             6-27-2018   51.02
-             6-27-2018   TSO I
                          110.01—
-             11-20-2018  110.14,
                          110.25,
                          110.99
-             2-11-2019   TSO I
-             2-11-2019   150.01
-             3-11-2019   112.01—
                          112.05
-             4-16-2019   Adopting Ordinance
-             1-13-2020   39.20
-             5-28-2020   114.120
-             8-27-2020   Adopting Ordinance
                          38.30—
-             8-27-2020   38.36,
                          38.99
52.00         8-27-2020   52.143
53.00         8-27-2020   53.01
-             9-14-2020   38.04
-             1-7-2021    116.01—
                          116.03
                          151.01—
                          151.12,
                          151.25—
-             1-7-2021    151.27,
                          151.40—
                          151.47,
                          151.99
2021-06       9-20-2021   TSO I
-             9-20-2021   35.117,
                          35.118
-             12-14-2021  32.16
53.00         5-9-2022    53.02
-             7-11-2022   TSO VII
-             7-11-2022   TSO VII
2022-05       9-12-2022   TSO VIII
33.40         11-14-2022  33.40
-             3-13-2023   35.130—
                          35.132
53.00         6-22-2023   53.01
53.00         6-22-2023   53.01
2024-01       11-11-2024  TSO I
                         
 
