CITY OF PLANTATION, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2020 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 17-06, passed 3-22-2017; and
State legislation current through KRS Pamphlet 2020
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet:  www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
CITY OF PLANTATION
ORDINANCE NO 4, SERIES 2010
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF PLANTATION, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2010 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Plantation, Kentucky, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Plantation:
   SECTION 1. That the 2010 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Plantation, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
 
First Reading:           9/17/2010     
Second Reading:           11/18/2010   
Passed and Approved:     11/18/2010   
  Becky Peak /s/                 
Becky Peak, Mayor
ATTEST:
  John Singler /s/                 
John Singler, Acting City Clerk
Votes in Favor:
Votes Opposed:
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Plantation Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted.  Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code. 
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to those
components of the code unless otherwise specified.  Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.”  Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.”  Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION.  Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND.  May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL.  Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being. 
(KRS 446.010(2))
   CITY,MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY.  When used in this code, shall
denote the City of Plantation, irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMPANY.  May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association. 
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION.  May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association. 
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNCIL.  The City Council of Plantation.
(KRS 83A.010(3))
   COUNTY.  Jefferson County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY.  As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted. 
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS.  When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC.  When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state. 
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL.  Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY.  The Council. 
(KRS 83A.010(6))
   FEDERAL.  Refers to the United States. 
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN.  When applied to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
business trust, statutory trust, or limited liability company, includes all
those incorporated or formed by authority of any other state. 
(KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR.  Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   KRS.  Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE.  Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest. 
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY.  The City Council. 
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER.  A City Council member. 
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK.  Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes,
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, or camelid
species;
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY.  The act referred to is permissive. 
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH.  Calendar month. 
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY.  The City of Plantation, Kentucky.
   OATH.  Includes AFFIRMATION in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH. 
(KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP.  Includes both general and limited partnerships.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER.  Includes sheriffs, constables, coroners, jailers,
metropolitan and urban- county government correctional officers, marshals,
police officers, and other persons with similar authority to make arrests. 
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON.  May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies. 
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY.  Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES.  As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY.  Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY.  Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY.  Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION.  The election in even-numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected, and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected. 
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory. 
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK.  That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE.  The State of Kentucky.
   STREET.  Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER.  A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the
heading.  Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN.  Includes AFFIRMED in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT.  As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE.  Exists when there is an unexpired part of a term of
office without a lawful incumbent therein, when the person elected or appointed
to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has been no
election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies whether
the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the state,
county, city, or district, or otherwise. 
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE.  Includes failure to comply with. 
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR.  Calendar year. 
(KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural.  A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to 1 person
or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be applied
to 1 person or thing as well as to several persons or things.  (KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine.  A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction.  All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of City
Council. 
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity.  No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms.  All words and phrases shall be construed according
to the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases,
and others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to that meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04  COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included.  The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned.  When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than 7 days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time.  If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or notice shall mean the
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
§ 10.05  MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to 3 or more public officers or other persons
shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the officers or
other persons. 
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include those acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06  WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of City Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that City
Council would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional
part; or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and
incapable of being executed in accordance with the intent of City Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08  REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of City Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of City Council as long as it takes effect prior to the
effective date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
City Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of City Council, as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of City Council repealing a repealer or an amendment
shall have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or
amendment as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09  RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings.  If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10  CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.  All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the City
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14  AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein.  Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages.  Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances
until City Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.37 should be used by the city to amend, add, or repeal a chapter, section,
or division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15  CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the
codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
bearing the latest passage date shall prevail. 
   (B)   If the conflicting provisions bear the same passage date, the conflict
shall be so construed as to be consistent with the meaning or legal effect of
the questions of the subject matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.16  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error be discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any word or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the
intention of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no
meaning can be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or
words was clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be
corrected, and the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will
conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same
effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as originally
published. 
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.18  HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section.  Example: 
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 20, passed
1-1-1980; Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for- word the same as the statute.  Example: 
(KRS 83A.090)
   (C)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information.  Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
      or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see KRS 61.870 et seq.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation, and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR-COUNCIL FORM OF GOVERNMENT
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY COUNCIL
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
35.   TAXATION
      
36.   CODE OF ETHICAL CONDUCT
CHAPTER 30:  MAYOR-COUNCIL FORM OF GOVERNMENT
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01  FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the “Mayor-
Council Plan.”
(KRS 83A.130(1))
§ 30.02  GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by such other officers and employees as are provided for by
statute or city ordinance.
(KRS 83A.130(2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of 6 members.
(KRS 83A.030(1))
CHAPTER 31:  CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath; bond
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
Elected Officials
   
31.20   Election procedure
   
31.21   Mayor
   
31.22   Council members
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.35   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.36   City Clerk
   
31.37   City Treasurer
   
31.38   Citation Officers
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01  OATH; BOND.
   (A)   Oath.  Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his or her office, take the following oath:  “I do
solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the
Constitution of this Commonwealth, and the Constitution of the United States,
and be faithful and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue
a citizen thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my
ability, the office of           , according to law; and I do further solemnly
swear (or affirm) that, since the adoption of the present Constitution, I being
a citizen of this United States, have not fought a duel with deadly weapons
within this State, nor out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to
fight a duel with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a second in carrying a
challenge, nor aided or assisted any person thus offending, so help me God,” as
established by § 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (B)   Bond.  Official bonds shall, if required, meet the standards of KRS
62.060.
§ 31.02  COMPENSATION.
   (A)   City Council shall establish the compensation of every elected city
officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in which the officer
is elected.  An elected officer’s compensation shall not be changed after his
or her election or during his or her term of office.
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of Mayors and Council members
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department of Local Government
computes by the second Friday in February of every year the annual increase or
decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using 1949 as the
base year in accordance with § 246 of the Constitution of Kentucky, which
provides that the Mayor in cities of the first class shall be paid at a rate no
greater than $12,000 per annum and Mayors in cities other than the first class
and Council members shall be paid at a rate no greater than $7,200 per annum.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Department of Local Government.
   (B)   The City Council shall fix the compensation of each appointed city
officer by ordinance and may change it by ordinance.
   (C)   The City Council shall establish the compensation of city employees in
accordance with the personnel and pay classification plan ordinance of the
city.
   (D)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
Case law reference:
   The limits on compensation contained in the Kentucky Constitution are not
absolute limits but rather increase or decrease in accordance with changes in
the consumer price index.  See Matthews v Allen, 360 SW2d 248 (1948).
Editor's note:
   Compensation ordinances are not set forth in this code but are rather kept
on file and available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
§ 31.03  REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers.  Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
inability, or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his or her
office, may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the
City Council exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his or her removal.  No elected officer shall be removed
without having been given the right to a full public hearing.  The officer, if
removed, has the right to appeal to the Circuit Court of the county and the
appeal shall be on the record.  No officer so removed is eligible to fill the
office vacated before the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers.  Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(3)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.20  ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Election of city officers is governed by general election laws as
provided in KRS Chapters 116 through 121 unless City Council otherwise
prescribes by ordinance that election of city officers shall be under
nonpartisan city election laws as provided in KRS Chapter 83A. Such ordinance
shall become effective not later than 23 days prior to the date prescribed by
the election law generally for filing notification and declaration forms with
the County Clerk in a year in which a regular election is to be held in which
any city office is to be filled.  Immediately subsequent to publication of any
ordinance prescribing that election of city officers be under nonpartisan city
election laws, a copy of the ordinance shall be filed with the County Clerk of
the county in which the city is located.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) of this section by ordinance, except that no change
shall be made earlier than 5 years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and City Council members may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office.  Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
Statutory reference:
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080 (4), (5)
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
§ 31.21  MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office.  The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election.  A candidate for Mayor shall be a
resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her election.
His or her term of office begins on the first day of January following his or
her election and shall be for 4 years and until his or her successor
qualifies.  If a person is elected or appointed as Mayor in response to a
vacancy and serves less than four calendar years, then that period of service
shall not be considered for purposes of re-election a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications.  The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
   (C)   Vacancy.  If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, Council shall
fill the vacancy within 30 days.  If for any reason, any vacancy in the office
of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(1), (2), (6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Council shall not vote for himself or herself.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council.  The resignation shall be effective at
the next regular or special meeting of the city legislative body occurring
after the date specified in the written letter of resignation.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the office
of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall
be exercised by the Mayor.  The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council Plan,
city ordinances and orders, and all applicable statutes.  He or she shall
supervise all departments of city government and the conduct of all city
officers and employees under his or her jurisdiction and require each
department to make reports to him or her as required by ordinance or as he or
she deems desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he or she finds appropriate or as
required by ordinance, but not less than annually.  He or she shall make any
recommendations for actions by the Council he or she finds in the public
interest.
(KRS 83A.130(3))
      (4)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to insure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statutes or ordinances.  Upon promulgation or upon revision
or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the person
responsible for maintaining city records.
(KRS 83A.130(4))
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor’s power, duties, or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his or her official
authority to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order. 
Executive orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a
permanent file.
(KRS 83A.130(7))
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his or her agent designated by
executive order.
(KRS 83A.130(8))
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance or contract and except
for employees of the Council.
(KRS 83A.130(9))
      (8)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he or she is unable to attend to the
duties of his or her office by delegating responsibility for any function to be
performed, in accordance with division (D)(5) above.  However, the Mayor may
not delegate the responsibility of presiding at meetings of the Council, and
the authority to approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may
only be delegated to an elected officer. With approval of the Council, the
Mayor may rescind any action taken in his or her absence under this section
within 30 days of the action.  If for any reason the disability of the Mayor to
attend to his or her duties persists for 60 consecutive days, the office of
Mayor may be declared vacant by a majority vote of the Council and the
provisions of §
31.21(C) shall apply.
(KRS 83A.130(10))
§ 31.22  COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Chapter 32.
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.35  ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office; and
      (4)   Bond, if required.
   (B)   A city may create nonelected offices other than those referred to in
this division. For purposes of the requirements of this section, the following
shall be considered nonelected offices:
      (1)   City Clerk;
      (2)   City Manager;
      (3)   City Administrator;
      (4)   Chief of Police; and
      (5)   Fire Chief, other than a volunteer Fire Chief.
   (C)   All nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor with
approval of City Council.  The Police Chief and all city police officers shall
be appointed by the Mayor at will and such appointments need not be approved by
City Council.  Upon removal of a nonelected officer at will, the executive
authority shall give the officer a written statement setting forth the reason
or reasons for the removal. However, this requirement shall not be construed as
limiting in any way the at will dismissal power of the executive authority.
   (D)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Mayor at will unless
otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
(KRS 83A.080)
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1), (3)
§ 31.36  CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   The office of City Clerk may, by ordinance, be combined with any other
nonelected city office by inclusion of the title and duties of the office.
   (C)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk shall include, but are
not limited to the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the “official custodian” or
“custodian” pursuant to KRS 61.870 through 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used;
      (4)   Act as tax collector;
      (5)    No later than January 31 of each year, mail or electronically
submit to the Department for Local Government a list containing current city
information including but not limited to the following:
         (a)   The correct name, telephone number, and electronic mail address
of the Mayor, legislative body members, and the correct name, telephone number,
and electronic mail address for the city's appointed officials and employees
who are serving in the following roles or substantially similar roles as of
January 1 of each year:
            1.   City Clerk;
            2.   City Treasurer or Chief Financial Administrator;
            3.   City Manager or Administrator;
            4.   City Attorney;
            5.   Human Resources Director;
            6.   Police Chief;
            7.   Fire Chief;
            8.   Public Works Director;
            9.   Risk Manager;
            10.   Information Technology Manager;
            11.   Public Relations or Communications Officer; and
            12.   Planning and Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for city hall, and
telephone number of the city hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.;
      (6)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk by statute or ordinance.
      (7)   Once the information required to be reported under division (C)(5)
of this section is compiled by the Department for Local Government, the
Department shall forward one electronic copy of the compiled information to the
Legislative Research Commission.
(KRS 83A.085(3)(d) - (f))
   (D)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City Council
from time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
   (E)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk unless such
person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond, if required, with corporate
surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and conditioned upon the
performance of the duties specified herein.
§ 31.37  CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint a City Clerk who shall be a resident of the
city, a fifth class city within Louisville, Kentucky, and a registered voter. 
The city shall bond the City Treasurer.
   (B)   The duties of the City Treasurer shall include, but are not limited
to:
      (1)   Reviewing all invoices for accuracy or reasonableness and
processing for timely payment;
      (2)   Posting deposits to appropriate bank accounts;
      (3)   Maintaining official financial records of the city;
      (4)   Preparing monthly and quarterly financial reports to the City
Council;
      (5)   Preparing documentation for annual audit; and
      (6)   Performing other city-related duties as requested by the Mayor or
as assigned by municipal order.
   (C)   In that the city does not own, rent, or lease space for an office, the
City Treasurer will work from a home office using furniture, equipment and
consumable office supplies provided by the city as requested by the City
Treasurer.  All utilities, phone and internet services used will be established
as the personal services of the City Treasurer.
(Ord. 6, Series 2003-2004, passed 10-9-2003)
§ 31.38  CITATION OFFICER.
   (A)   There is hereby created the appointed position of Citation Officer
within the city and the Citation Officer shall be appointed by the Mayor, with
a majority approval of the City Council, with such authority as is set out in
KRS 83A.087 to enforce all city ordinances.
   (B)   This position will be appointed as a volunteer; there will be no
compensation for this position.
   (C)   This section shall take effect immediately upon passage and
publication as required by law.
(Ord. 4, Series 2003-2004, passed 10-9-2003)
CHAPTER 32:  CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
Rules of Procedure
   
32.20   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.21   Meetings
   
32.22   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.35   One subject; title
   
32.36   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.37   Form of amendment
   
32.38   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.39   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
32.40   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.41   Official city records
   
32.42   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.43   Publication requirements
   
32.44   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.45   Periodic review required
   
32.46   Municipal orders
   
32.47   Proved by Clerk; received in evidence
   
32.48   Legislative immunity
Cross-reference:
   Mayor-Council form of government, see §
30.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01  MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office.  Each Council member shall be elected at-
large by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Council
member shall be a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his
or her election. Terms of office begin on the first day of January following
the election and shall be for 2 years.
   (B)   Qualifications.  A member shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation.  For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02.
§ 32.02  VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies.  If 1 or more vacancies on Council occur in a way that 1 or
more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30 days fill the
vacancies 1 at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice of his or
her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with the remaining
members in making further appointments until all vacancies are filled.  If
vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor shall
appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute a
quorum.  Remaining vacancies are filled as provided in this section.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council.  The resignation shall be
effective at the next regular or special meeting of the city legislative body
occurring after the date specified in the written letter of resignation.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs on the City Council which is required by law to
be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately notify
in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies.  If for any reason, any vacancy on Council
is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill
the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same
period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall be
exercised by the elected Council of the city.  The Council may not perform any
executive functions except those functions assigned to it by statute.
(KRS 83A.130(11))
   (B)   The Council shall establish all appointive offices and the duties and
responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and regulations for the
public health, safety and welfare.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (C)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (D)   The Council may investigate all activities of city government.  The
Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and submit to it
sworn statements regarding the performance of his or her official duties.  Any
statement required by the Council to be submitted or any investigation
undertaken by the Council, if any office, department or agency under the
jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or undertaken
unless and until written notice of the Council’s action is given to the Mayor. 
The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the Council and to
appear personally or through his or her designee on behalf of any department,
office or agency in the course of any investigation.
(KRS 83A.130(13))
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.20  MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council.  The Council has
the authority to establish, by ordinance, the manner in which 1 of its number
may be selected to preside at meetings of the Council in the absence of the
Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in Council proceedings, but shall not have a
vote, except that he or she may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130(5))
Cross-reference:
   Council's responsibility to select one of its own members to preside when
there is vacancy in the office of Mayor, see §
31.21
§ 32.21  MEETINGS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council shall meet on the fourth Wednesday of each
month, unless that day be a legal holiday when the Council shall meet on the
second Thursday of that month.
      (2)   The City Council shall meet at 6:00 p.m. local time for each of the
regular monthly meetings.
      (3)   The City Council shall meet at 2502-C Hermitage Way, within the
City of Louisville, for the regular monthly meetings.
(Ord. 5, Series 2010, passed 12-16-2010)
   (B)   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or upon
written request of a majority of the Council.  In the call, the Mayor or
Council shall designate the purpose, time and place of the special meeting with
sufficient notice for the attendance of Council members and for compliance with
KRS Chapter 61.
   (C)   At a special meeting no business may be considered other than that set
forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person responsible
for maintaining city records as provided under §
31.36 and by the officer presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.130(11))
§ 32.22  QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Council constitutes
a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take action.
(KRS 83A.060(6))
ORDINANCES
§ 32.35  ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only 1 subject and shall have a title that
clearly states the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1))
§ 32.36  INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled “Be it ordained by the City of Plantation.”
(KRS 83A.060(2))
§ 32.37  FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060(3))
§ 32.38  READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance shall
be enacted until it has been read on 2 separate days.  The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of 2/3 of the membership,
the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and publication in
order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and describing the
emergency in the ordinance.  Publication requirements of §
32.43 shall be complied with within 10 days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(4), (7))
§ 32.39  APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within 10 days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance by
affixing his or her signature or disapprove it by returning it to the Council
together with a statement of his or her objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor’s approval unless he
or she fails to return it to the legislative body within 10 days after
receiving it or unless the Council votes to override the Mayor’s veto, upon
reconsideration of the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting
following its return, by the affirmative vote of 1 more than a majority of the
membership.
(KRS 83A.130(6))
§ 32.40  ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title, source
and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without setting
them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is made a
part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5))
§ 32.41  OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Council is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Council has provided, under the provisions of  §§
31.36(C) and 32.42, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent
records of the city.  The City Clerk and the presiding officer shall sign the
official record of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.42  INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.43  PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)    Except as provided in §
32.38(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
legislative body.  If the legislative body elects to publish an ordinance in
summary, the summary shall be prepared or
certified by an attorney licensed to practice law in the Commonwealth of
Kentucky and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads in
lieu of metes and bounds descriptions. 
(KRS 83A.060(9))
§ 32.44  ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10))
§ 32.45  PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every 5 years all ordinances in this code of ordinances
shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one another and shall
be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent and invalid
provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11))
§ 32.46  MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Council may adopt municipal orders.  All municipal orders shall be in
writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance.  All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions and
other agencies over which the Council has control.
(KRS 83A.060(12), (13))
§ 32.47  PROVED BY CLERK; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of ordinances by
authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in evidence by any
state court without further proof of such ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14))
§ 32.48  LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Council members shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15))
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33:  FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
Improvements
   
33.10   Definitions
   
33.11   Financing of improvements
   
33.12   Apportionment of cost
   
33.13   Comprehensive report required
   
33.14   Public hearing required
   
33.15   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.16   Affected owner may contest
   
33.17   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.18   Effect of additional property or change in financing
Investment and Financial Management Policy
   
33.30   Policy established
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01  DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   BUDGET.  A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE.  The sum of money required to pay installments of principal
and interest on bonds, notes and other evidences of debt accruing within a
fiscal year and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES.  Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation.  An obligation ceases to be an encumbrance
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR.  The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS.  Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010)
§ 33.02  ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 33.03  ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section.  No moneys
shall be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund except in
accordance with a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Moneys held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover 1 fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in such form and detail as
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to Council not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal year it
covers.  The budget message shall contain an explanation of the governmental
goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain important
features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the reasons for
stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs and
appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   Council may adopt the budget ordinance making appropriations for
the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether greater
or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal.  The budget ordinance
may take any form that Council finds most efficient in enabling it to make the
necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any 1 fiscal year in violation of § 157 of
the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated, for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance’s adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor.  The responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to Council of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted.  The reports shall be submitted not less than once every 3 months
in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer or employee of any city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency.  All contracts,
agreements and obligations, express or implied, beyond such existing
appropriations are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond,
certificate, or warrant for the payment of money by the city in any way to any
extent, beyond the balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030)
§ 33.04  ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)    Each city of the first through fifth class shall, after the close of
each fiscal year, cause each fund of the city to be audited by the Auditor of
Public Accounts or a certified public accountant.  The audit shall be completed
by February 1 immediately following the fiscal year being audited.  The city
shall forward an electronic copy of the audit report to the Department for
Local Development for information purposes by no later than March 1 immediately
following the fiscal year being audited.
   (B)   The Department for Local Government shall, upon request, make
available electronic copies of the audit reports and financial statements
received by it under division (A) of this section to the Legislative Research
Commission to be used for the purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975 or to the Auditor
of Public Accounts.
   (C)   Each city required by this section to conduct an annual or biannual
audit shall enter into a written contract with the selected auditor.  The
contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall
include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual city audit report an
examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to the city
under KRS 42.450 to 42.495;  (The auditor shall include a certification with
the annual audit report that the funds were expended for the purpose intended.)
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which includes the tests of the
accounting records and the auditing procedures as considered necessary under
the circumstances;  (Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal
funds, appropriate state or federal guidelines shall be utilized.)
      (4)   The auditor prepare a typewritten or printed report embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor's opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit.
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to Council at a regular or special meeting; and
         (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit
shall require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and
management letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city
or the Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall
have the right to review the certified public accountant’s workpapers upon
request.
   (D)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (E)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the city legislative body, publish an advertisement, in accordance with KRS
Chapter 424, containing:
      (1)   The auditor's opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules-Major Funds,” which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at city hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from city hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $0.25 per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220 are available to the public at no cost at the
business address of the officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (F)    Any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city
may bring an action in the Circuit Court to enforce the provisions of this
section. Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined
not less than $50 nor more than $500.  In addition, any officer who fails to
comply with any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be
subject to a forfeiture of not less than $50 nor more than $500, in the
discretion of the court, which may be recovered only once, in a civil action
brought by any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city. 
The costs of all proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the attorney of
the resident bringing the action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful
party.
   (G)   In the event of extenuating circumstances that prevent a city from
completing and submitting a required audit or financial statement in compliance
with the applicable deadline in division (A) of this section, the city may
submit a written request for an extension of time to the Department for Local
Government on a form prescribed by the Department for Local Government.  The
Department for Local Government shall approve the request if it is submitted on
or before the applicable deadline, and in the judgment of the Department for
Local Government, the request is warranted by extenuating circumstances beyond
the control of the city.  Extensions granted under this division shall not
exceed nine months from the original due date of the audit or financial
statement.  If the Department for Local Government approves an extension for a
city and the city fails to complete and submit the required audit or financial
statement in compliance with that extended deadline, then the provisions of
division (F) of this section shall apply.
   (H)   If a city fails to complete an audit or financial statement and submit
it to the Department for Local Government as required in divisions (A) and (E)
of this section, the Department for Local Government shall notify the Finance
and Administration Cabinet that the city has failed to comply with the audit
requirements of this section, and that any funds in the possession of any
agency, entity, or branch of state government shall be withheld from the city
until further notice.  The Department for Local Government shall immediately
notify the Finance and Administration Cabinet when the city complies with the
requirements of divisions (A) and (E) of this section for all prior fiscal
years it has failed to comply with the audit requirements of this section, and
the Finance and Administration Cabinet shall direct the reinstatement of
payments to the city, including any funds that were withheld due to the
noncompliance.
   (I)   Within a reasonable time after the completion of a special audit or
examination conducted pursuant to KRS 43.050, the auditor shall bill the city
for the actual expense of the audit or examination conducted.  The actual
expense shall include the hours of work performed on the audit or examination
as well as reasonable associated costs, including but not limited to travel
costs.  The bill submitted to the city shall include a statement of the hourly
rate, total hours, and total costs for the entire audit or examination.
(KRS 91A.040)
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050
§ 33.05  OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city’s official depositories 1 or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the Commonwealth.  The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with 12 U.S.C. sec. 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any
obligations, including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories.  All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which states
the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the payment,
and the fund out of which the funds are payable.  Each authorization shall be
numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.10  DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply.
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS.  The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all such properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS.  The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by Council of the special benefit received
by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis, front foot
basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may include
consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different classes
of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received, and other
factors affecting benefits received.
   COST.  All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS.  Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS.  The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to the front footage of all such properties.
   IMPROVEMENT.  Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by such facility.
   PROPERTY.  Any real property benefitted by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT.  A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS.  The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all such property.
(KRS 91A.210)
§ 33.11  FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes.
(KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
Statutory reference:
   Improvements; alternate methods, see KRS Ch. 107
§ 33.12  APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious or charitable organization.  Council
may assess the property in the same manner as for privately owned property or
it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230)
§ 33.13  COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments or financing.
(KRS 91A.240)
§ 33.14  PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   (A)   After preparation of the report required by §
33.13, the city shall hold at least 1 public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Ch. 424, and
mailed to each affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt
requested, and shall include:
      (1)   The nature of the improvement;
      (2)   Description of area of the improvement;
      (3)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in
whole or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
      (4)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
      (5)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250)
§ 33.15  ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.13 and a description of all properties.  Promptly upon passage the city
shall publish the ordinance pursuant to KRS Ch. 424 and shall mail by certified
mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to proceed with
the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to
the property owner and the ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the
total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260)
§ 33.16  AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.15, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his or her property in the improvement, or the amount of his
or her assessment.  If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement
by the special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that
property owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to
any property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment
has been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution are final and binding with respect to such
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments.  After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270)
§ 33.17  WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.16, or after favorable final judgment in any such action, whichever comes
later, the city may proceed with the improvement or part
thereof stayed by the action, including notice requiring payment of special
assessment or installment thereon and bonds or other method proposed to finance
the improvement.  The first installment may be apportioned so that other
payments will coincide with payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement.  The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners.  No error in the proceedings of the Council shall
exempt any benefitted property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280)
§ 33.18  EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.13 through
33.17 applies if additional property is included in the improvement or if
change is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property
may be included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof
without compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost
apportioned to any other property, or any other change may be made without the
compliance if all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290)
INVESTMENT AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT POLICY
§ 33.30  POLICY ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established the following Investment and Financial
Management Policy in the City of Plantation:
   (A)   General investment policy.  It is the policy of the city to invest
public funds in a manner which will provide the maximum security and highest
investment of principle while meeting the daily cash flow demands on the city
and conforming to both KRS 91A.060 and KRS 66.480. This investment policy
applies to all financial assets held directly by the city. These financial
assets are accounted for in the city’s annual financial report and include all
moneys in investment fund accounts.
   (B)   Investment objectives. The city’s primary investment objectives, in
order of priority, are the following:
      (1)   Safety. Safety of principle is the foremost objective of the city
investment program. Investments shall be undertaken in a manner that seeks to
ensure the preservation of capital in the overall portfolio.
      (2)   Liquidity. The city’s investment portfolio shall remain
sufficiently liquid to enable the city to meet all operating requirements which
might be reasonably anticipated.
      (3)   Return on investment. The city’s investment portfolio shall be
designed with the objective of attaining a market rate of return throughout the
budgetary and economic cycles, taking into account the city investment risk
constraints and the cash flow characteristics of the portfolio.
   (C)   Investment authority. Management responsibility for the investment
policy is the joint responsibility of the Plantation Mayor, City Clerk/
Treasurer and City Council. No person may engage in an investment transaction
except as provided under the terms of this policy and the procedures
established. The City Mayor (with the assistance of the City Council) shall be
ultimately responsible for all transactions undertaken and shall establish a
system of controls to regulate the activities of subordinate officials and
employees. The controls shall be designed to prevent and control losses of
funds arising from fraud; employees' error; misrepresentation by third parties;
or imprudent actions by officers and employees.
   (D)   Prudent person rule.
      (1)   The actions of the city officials in the performance of their
duties as managers of the city funds shall be evaluated using the "prudent man"
standard. Investments shall be made with judgment and care under prevailing
circumstances which persons of prudence, discretion, and intelligence exercise
in the management of their own affairs, not for speculation, but for investment
considering the probable safety of their capital as well as the probable income
to be derived.
      (2)   The city officials acting in accordance with written procedures and
exercising due diligence shall be relieved of personal responsibility for an
individual security's performance, provided that deviations from expectations
are reported in a timely fashion to the government body and appropriate action
is taken to control adverse developments.
   (E)   Authorized investments.
      (1)   The funds of the city available for investment shall be invested in
accordance with this policy and all applicable state statutes:
         (a)   Authorized investment instruments per KRS 66.480.
            1.   Obligations of the United States and its agencies and
instrumentalities, including obligations subject to repurchase agreements,
provided that delivery of these obligations subject to repurchase agreements is
taken either directly or through an authorized custodian.
            2.   Obligations and contracts for future delivery or purchase of
obligations backed by the full faith credit of the United States or a United
States government agency, including but not limited to: United States Treasury;
Export-Import Bank of the United States; Farmers Home Administration;
Government National Mortgage Corporation; and Merchant Marine Bonds.
            3.   Obligations of any corporation of the United States
government, including but not limited to: Federal Home Loan Mortgage
Corporation; Federal Farm Credit Banks; Bank of Cooperatives; Federal
Intermediate Credit Banks; Federal Land Banks; Federal Home Loan Banks; Federal
National Mortgage Association; and Tennessee Valley Authority.
            4.   Certificates of deposit insured by or other interest-bearing
accounts of any bank or savings and loan institution which are insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or similar entity or which are
collateralized, to the extent uninsured, by any obligations permitted by KRS
41.240(4).
            5.   Bonds or certificates of indebtedness of this state and of its
agencies and instrumentalities.
            6.   Securities issued by a state or local government, or any
instrumentality of agency thereof, in the United States, and rated in 1 of the
3 highest categories by a nationally recognized rating agency.
            7.   Shares of mutual funds and money markets, each of which will
have the following characteristics:
               A.   The mutual funds shall be an open-end diversified
investment company registered under the Federal Investment Company Act of 1940,
as amended;
               B.   The management company of the investment company shall have
been in operation for at least 5 years;
               C.   All of the securities in the mutual fund shall be eligible
investments under this section.
            8.   Limitation on investment transactions. With regard to the
investments authorized in this section, no investments shall be purchased for
the city on a margin basis or through the use of any similar leveraging
technique.
   (F)   Diversification of investments.
      (1)   The city recognizes that some level of risk is inherent in any
investment transaction. Losses may be incurred due to market price changes or
closing investments prior to maturity due to unanticipated cash flow needs.
Diversification of the city investment portfolio by type of investment
instrument and term to maturity is the primary method to minimize investment
risk.
      (2)   To the extent possible, the city will attempt to match its
investments with anticipated cash flow requirements. Reserve funds may be
invested in securities exceeding 1 year, if maturities of the investments are
made to coincide as nearly as practical with the expected use of the funds.
   (G)   Authorized financial dealers and institutions.  No financial
institution shall be selected as a depository of city funds if the city funds
on deposit at any time will exceed 10% of the institution's capital surplus and
stock. The Mayor shall evaluate the financial capacity and creditworthiness of
financial institutions prior to the placement of the city funds and each shall
comply with the requirements of KRS 91A.060 for qualifying Official
Depositories. The Mayor (with assistance of the City Council) shall conduct an
annual review of the financial condition and registrations of financial
institutions and based on the review, make any recommendations regarding
investment policy or program changes determined to be necessary.
   (H)   Safekeeping and custody.  To protect against potential fraud and
embezzlement, bearer instruments shall be held only through third-party
institutions. Any officer or employee of the city authorized to engage in
investment transactions shall be bonded in an amount established by the city.
   (I)   Collateral.
      (1)   It is the policy of the city to require that all cash and
investments in excess of the amount insured by the FDIC maintained in any
financial institution named as a depository be collateralized. In order to
anticipate market changes and provide a level of security for all funds, the
collateralization level shall be 100% of the market value of principal, plus
accrued interest in accordance with KRS 91A.060. Collateral shall be limited to
the types of instruments authorized as collateral for state funds in KRS
41.240.
      (2)   Collateral shall always be held by an independent third-party
custodian with whom the city has a current custodial agreement. A clearly
marked evidence of ownership (safekeeping receipt) must be supplied to the city
and retained by the City Clerk/Treasurer. The right of collateral substitution
is hereby granted.
   (J)   Investment reporting.  The city shall prepare and submit to the
Council report regarding the status of the entity's investment program. As to
each investment, the report should include the following information:
      (1)   Name of financial institution from which the investment was
purchased or in which assets are deposited.
      (2)   Type of investment.
      (3)   Certificate or other reference number, if applicable.
      (4)   Percentage yield on an annualized basis.
      (5)   Purchase price and maturity date.
      (6)   Current market value of the investment.
   (K)   Financial management policy.  The city hereby establishes that all
city officials shall apply the following policies and internal financial
controls when dealing with the day to day financial affairs of the city:
      (1)   Purpose. The City Council, Mayor and all officials and employees
are responsible to manage the funds of the city effectively and to ensure the
financial management of these funds is properly controlled. All city officials
have a duty to care for and protect the funds and assets of the city and may
use those funds and assets only for the good of the city and for properly
authorized purposes.
      (2)   Internal controls. Oversight of the day-to-day expenditures are the
responsibility of the Mayor and Clerk/Treasurer and shall be subject to the
following internal controls:
         (a)   All invoices/expense vouchers must be approved in writing by the
Mayor (or Mayor Pro-Tem) and the City Clerk/Treasurer. Two signatures are
required on the invoice/expense voucher. The approved invoice/expense voucher
will be forwarded to a third party accountant, who will then issue the check.
The check will be forwarded to the City Clerk/Treasurer for signature and
distribution. If the City Clerk/Treasurer is unable to sign the check, the
Mayor (or Mayor Pro-Tem), will be authorized to sign.
         (b)   Checks require one signature, which should be that of the Mayor
or Clerk/Treasurer. If the Mayor is not available the second signature may be
supplied by the Appointed Mayor Pro-Tem. Whenever possible, any and all persons
who are handling or have primary access to the money of the city should be
bonded and/or insurance coverage for theft loss obtained in the city's
insurance package. Whenever possible, any person to whom a check is made
payable should not be one of the signatories.
         (c)   Expenditures that exceed any line item classification in the
budget must be reviewed and approved by the City Council at least once prior to
the end of the fiscal year.
         (d)   Debit/credit cards are to be monitored carefully and used
sparingly. Whenever possible, the maximum credit limit for each debit card or
credit card should be reduced to its lowest possible amount. Any person
desiring to use the city's credit or debit card must first receive the approval
of the Mayor and then return to the office a receipt for any purchase.
         (e)   Request for reimbursement for any personal expenditure must be
accompanied by adequate documentation and explanation and must be approved as
an invoice as set out above. When possible, reimbursement to a city employee
should be avoided in favor of direct payment by the city to the vendor, based
on an approved invoice.
      (3)   Monitoring. Monitoring of city finances is an ongoing process. The
Mayor and Clerk/Treasurer will work closely to monitor the finances. A
comprehensive monthly report will be presented to the City Council for review
and approval, which includes reports of actual income and expenditure and
comparison with budget, along with commentary on any material variance.
         (a)   It is the intent of the city to separate specific work items
relating to finances, so that the same person is not able to make deposits,
record deposits and expenditures and make out checks.
         (b)   Any member of the City Council may demand detailed accounting
for all receipts and payments.
         (c)   Salaries and wages shall be paid to non-elected staff in
accordance with a pay scale, which shall be adopted by the City Council as part
of its annual budget. There shall be no changes or deviations from the adopted
pay scale for the year without the specific approval of the City Council.
         (d)   It is the responsibility of the Mayor, City Council and Clerk/
Treasurer to establish an inventory of all the equipment, goods and personal
property owned by the city and to safeguard those assets. The inventory must be
provided to the city's insurance carrier so that risk of loss may be mitigated.
Any item (of any kind) surplus to the needs of the city, must be disposed of in
a way that complies with Kentucky Revised Statutes. This includes selling the
item if the item has resale value.
(Ord. 7, Series 2015, passed 10-28-2015)
CHAPTER 34:  PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.05   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.06   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.07   Public records not immediately available
   
34.08   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.09   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.10   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.11   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.12   Format of copies
   
34.13   Fees for copies
   
34.14   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
34.15   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
34.16   Public records protected from disclosure
   
34.17   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   CITY.  The city government of this city.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE.  The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary or fee.  COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its news
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   CUSTODIAN.  The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records.  The CUSTODIAN having personal custody
of most of the public records of this city is the City Clerk.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING.  Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
   MEDIA.  The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes and cards.
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN.  The chief administrative officer or any other officer
or employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care,
and keeping of public records, regardless of whether such records are in his or
her actual personal custody and control. The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city
shall be the Mayor.
   PERSON.  A human being who makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE.  The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY.  The city, including its legislative body and every officer,
department and division of the city; every entity created by authority of the
city; any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council or agency created and controlled by the city; and
any interagency body in which the city participates.
   PUBLIC RECORDS.  All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are
prepared, owned, used, in the possession of or retained by the public agency. 
PUBLIC RECORDS shall not include any records owned or maintained by or for the
public agency that are not related to functions, activities, programs or
operations funded by the public agency nor any records that may be excluded by
§
34.16.
   REQUEST.  An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the agency.
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency’s computer system.  SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.05  INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of this city
shall make a request for inspection at the office of the City Clerk during
regular office hours, except during legal holidays.  The official custodian, or
the custodian acting under the authority of the official custodian, may require
a request to inspect public records to be in writing, signed by the applicant
and with the applicant’s name printed legibly on the application.  A written
request to inspect public records may be presented by hand delivery, mail or
via facsimile, if 1 is available.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person’s request is in compliance
with this chapter and the open records law, and the requested public records
are immediately available, the custodian shall deliver the records for
inspection.  A person may inspect public records at the designated office of
the city during the regular office hours, or in appropriate cases, by receiving
copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the city,
suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk or
in another office of the city as determined by the official custodian or
custodian for the inspection.  No person shall remove original copies of public
records from the offices of the city without the written permission of the
official custodian of the record.  When public records are inspected at the
city offices, the person inspecting the records shall have the right to make
abstracts and memoranda of the public records and to obtain copies of all
written public records.  When copies are requested, the custodian may require
advance payment of the prescribed fee.
   (D)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee.
§ 34.06  REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk does not have custody or control of the public record or
records requested, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant and shall furnish
the name and location of the official custodian of the agency’s public records.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 34.07  PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed 3 days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays)
from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the cause is
given for further delay and the place, time and earliest date on which the
public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5))
§ 34.08  REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof.  However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
§ 34.09  TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within 3 days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and legal
holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the request
and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the 3-day
period of its decision.  Any agency response denying, in whole or in part,
inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific exception
authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of how the
exception applies to the record withheld.  The response shall be issued by the
official custodian or under his or her authority and shall constitute final
agency action.
(KRS 61.880)
§ 34.10  CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
§ 34.11  ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or her or
in which he or she is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate
identification, subject to the provisions of §
34.16 of these rules and regulations.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 34.12  FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
34.16. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where appropriate.
If the applicant desires copies of public records other than written records,
the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or permit the
applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall ensure that
the duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than 8-1/2 inches x 11 inches in at least 1 color on white paper, or for
electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard Code for
Information Interchange (ASCII) format.  If the public agency maintains
electronic
public records in a format other than ASCII, and the format conforms to the
requestor’s requirements, the public record may be provided in this alternate
electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public agency. Any
request for a public record in a form other than the forms described in this
section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(1) - (3))
§ 34.13  FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   The public agency may prescribe a reasonable fee for making copies of
nonexempt public records requested for use for noncommercial purposes which
shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of the
media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but not
including the cost of staff required. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request
of an individual or a group, the public agency may at its discretion provide
the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs
incurred.
   (B)   (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) of this section may be
based on one or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records;
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(3), (4))
Cross-reference:
   Fees for online access to public records, see §
34.15
§ 34.14  MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
34.13;
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.15  ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
34.13.
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 34.16  PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except as provided in KRS
61.878(1) that no court shall authorize the inspection by any party of any
materials pertaining to civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the
Rules of Civil Procedure governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy.
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research.  This exemption shall not, however, apply
to records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute.
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to the agency, or required
by an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records.
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS
Chapter 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (b)
above, shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
directed by statute.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth.  This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(2) above.
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including, but not
limited to banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods.
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired.  The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision.
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again.
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication.  Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action.  The exemptions provided by this
subdivision shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or
impede the exercise of rights granted by this chapter.
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency.
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended.
      (11)   All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation.
      (12)   Public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly.
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Security and response needs assessments;
            5.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems.  These
critical systems shall include but not be limited to information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage and gas systems.
            6.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division:  detailed drawings, schematics,
maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and operating,
utility or security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied, leased
or maintained by a public agency; and
            7.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, TERRORIST ACT means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (a)5.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division, that public agency
shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS
61.880(1), to the executive director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law.
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person.  In addition, if any public record contains material which
is not excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
34.08.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge or
impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him or her.  The records
shall include, but not be limited to work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores and preliminary and other
supporting documentation.  A city employee, applicant or eligible shall not
have the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to
ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by any agency.
(KRS 61.878)
§ 34.17  NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the open
records law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
CHAPTER 35:  TAXATION
Section
   
35.01   County assessment adopted
   
35.02   Due date; payment
   
35.03   Delinquency
   
35.04   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles
   
35.05   Disposition of funds
§ 35.01  COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted in KRS 132.285, the city hereby
adopts the county assessment for all real and personal property situated within
the city as the basis of all ad valorem tax levies ordered or approved by the
City Council.
   (B)   The assessment as finally determined for county tax purposes shall
serve as the basis for all city levies for the fiscal year commencing after the
assessment date.
§ 35.02  DUE DATE; PAYMENT.
   (A)   All taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall become due
on December 1.
   (B)   Any taxpayer who pays his or her city taxes before December 1 after
they become due shall be entitled to a 2% discount thereon, and the Clerk shall
allow the discount and give a receipt in full to the taxpayer.
§ 35.03  DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   All city taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall
become delinquent on January 1 following their due dates.
   (B)   Any taxes not paid by the date when they become delinquent shall be
subject to a penalty of 10% on the taxes due and unpaid.  The delinquent
taxpayer shall also pay all costs and expenses incidental to any action taken
by the city for collection of the delinquent tax bill.
   (C)   Delinquent taxes shall be collectable under the provisions of the
state law relating to the collection of delinquent taxes by cities of the fifth
class.
§ 35.04  AD VALOREM TAXES ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   All ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall be collected by the
County Clerk in accordance with KRS 134.800.
   (B)   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall become due and delinquent as
set forth in KRS 134.810 and any such taxes not paid by the date when they
become delinquent shall be subject to the penalty and interest specified in KRS
134.810.
§ 35.05  DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All monies collected from the taxes levied in this chapter shall be paid
into the General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Council.
CHAPTER 36:  CODE OF ETHICAL CONDUCT
Section
   
36.01   Title
   
36.02   Findings
   
36.03   Purpose and authority
   
36.04   Definitions
   
36.05   Conflicts of interest in general
   
36.06   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
36.07   Receipt of gifts
   
36.08   Use of city property, equipment and personnel
   
36.09   Representation of interests before city government
   
36.10   Misuse of confidential information
   
36.11   Post-employment restriction
   
36.12   Honoraria
   
36.13   Who must file
   
36.14   Filing statements; amended statements
   
36.15   Form of statement of financial interests
   
36.16   Control and maintenance of statements of financial interest
   
36.17   Contents of financial interest statement
   
36.18   Noncompliance with filing requirement; specific penalties; violation
   
36.19   Nepotism prohibited
   
36.20   Board of Ethics created
   
36.21   Filing and investigating complaints; false complaints; penalty
   
36.22   Notice of hearing
   
36.23   Hearing procedure
   
36.24   Limitation of actions
   
36.25   Advisory actions
   
36.26   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
   
36.27   Conflicting ordinances repealed
   
36.28   Effective date
 
   
36.99   Penalty
§ 36.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Plantation Code
of Ethics.”
(Ord. 248, Series 1994, passed 2-26-1995)
§ 36.02  FINDINGS.
   The City Council finds and declares that:
   (A)   Public office and employment with the city are public trusts;
   (B)   The vitality and stability of this city depends upon the public’s
confidence in the integrity of its elected and appointed officers and
employees; and  (Whenever the public perceives a conflict between the private
interests and public duties of a city officer or employee, that confidence is
imperiled.)
   (C)   This city has a duty to provide its citizens with standards by which
they may determine whether public duties are being performed faithfully, and to
make its officers and employees aware of the standards with which the citizenry
rightfully expects them to comply while conducting their public duties.
(Ord. 248, Series 1994, passed 2-26-1995)
§ 36.03  PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of the city be clearly established, uniform in their application,
and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees of the city with
advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest which might
arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
Ky. Acts. 1994, Ch. 16.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of aforecited Chapter 16.
(Ord. 248, Series 1994, passed 2-26-1995)
§ 36.04  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF ETHICS.  The City of Plantation Board of Ethics which is created
and vested by this chapter with responsibility for enforcing the requirements
of the city’s Code of Ethics.
   BUSINESS.  Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation or any legal entity through which business is conducted for profit.
   CANDIDATE.  Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city
office. An individual is a candidate when the individual files a notification
and declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration
of intent to be a write-in candidate with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State.
   CITY.  The City of Plantation, Kentucky.
   CITY AGENCY.  Any board, commission, authority, nonstock corporation or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by this city.
   EMPLOYEE.  Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city. The term EMPLOYEE
shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of their employees.
   FAMILY MEMBER.  A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law,
parent or grandchild.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER.  A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in the
officer’s or employee’s household, or a person claimed by the officer or
employee, or the officer’s or employee’s spouse, as a dependent for tax
purposes.
   OFFICER.  Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is 1 of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   A City Council member;
      (3)   The City Clerk;
      (4)   Any person who occupies a nonelected city office created under KRS
83A.080; and/or
      (5)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency by the city.
(Ord. 248, Series 1994, passed 2-26-1995)
§ 36.05  CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN GENERAL.
   Every officer and employee of the city and every city agency shall comply
with the following standards of conduct:
   (A)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of any officer
or employee, shall have an interest in a business or engage in any business,
transaction, or activity, which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of the officer’s or employee’s public duties.
   (B)   No officer or employee intentionally shall use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or
advantages for himself or herself or others.
   (C)   No officer or employee intentionally shall take or refrain from taking
any discretionary action, or agree to take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action, or induce or attempt to induce any other officer or
employee to take or refrain from taking any discretionary action, on any matter
before the city in order to obtain a financial benefit for any of the
following:
      (1)   The officer or employee;
      (2)   A family member;
      (3)   An outside employer;
      (4)   Any business in which the officer or employee, or any family member
has a financial interest; and
      (5)   Any business with which the officer or employee or any family
member is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or
professional relationship.
   (D)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
in this section if, by reason of the officer’s or employee’s participation,
vote, decision, action or inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the officer
or employee, a family member, an outside employer, or a business as defined in
division (C)(4) and (C)(5) of this section, as a member of any business,
occupation, profession or other group, to any greater extent than any gain
reasonably could be expected to accrue to any other member of the business,
occupation, profession or other group.
   (E)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee knows, believes or has reason to believe will or
may be affected by his or her participation, vote, decision or other action
taken within the scope of his or her public duties, shall disclose the precise
nature and value of the interest, in writing, to the City Council or city
agency served by the officer or employee, and the disclosure shall be entered
on the official record of the proceedings of the City Council or the city
agency’s governing body. The officer or employee shall refrain from taking any
action with respect to the matter that is the subject of the disclosure.
(Ord. 248, Series 1994, passed 2-26-1995)
§ 36.06  CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall undertake
directly or through others, execute, hold or enjoy, in whole or in part, any
contract made, entered into, awarded or granted by the city or a city agency,
except as follows:
   (A)   The prohibition in this division (A) shall not apply to contracts
entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for city office,
before an appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency office, or
before an employee was hired by the city or a city agency. However, if any
contract entered into by the city or city agency officer or employee before he
or she became a candidate, was appointed to office, or was hired as an
employee, is renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes the
appointed office, or is hired as an employee, then the prohibition in division
(A) of this section shall apply to the renewal of the contract.
   (B)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply if the
contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the
officer or employee is authorized to participate in establishing the contract
specifications, awarding the contract, or managing contract performance after
the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any of the authorities
set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or employee shall have no
interest in the contract, unless the requirements set forth in division (C)
below are satisfied.
   (C)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply in any
case where the following requirements are satisfied:
      (1)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature of
the officer’s or employee’s interest in the contract are publicly disclosed at
a meeting of the City Council or city agency.
      (2)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the City
Council or city agency before the contract is executed.
      (3)   A finding is made by the City Council or city agency that the
contract with the officer or employee is in the best interests of the public
and the city or city agency because of price, limited supply, or other specific
reasons.
      (4)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the City
Council or city agency before the contract is executed.
(Ord. 248, Series 1994, passed 2-26-1995)
§ 36.07  RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall solicit or
accept, directly or indirectly, through any other person or business, any gift
having a fair market value of more than $100, whether in the form of money,
service, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing or promise, or any
other form, under circumstances in which reasonably it could be inferred that
the gift was intended to influence, or could reasonably be expected to
influence, the officer or employee in the performance of his or her public
duties.
(Ord. 248, Series 1994, passed 2-26-1995)
§ 36.08  USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any city
time, funds, personnel, equipment or other personal or real property for the
private use of any person, unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy; and/or
   (B)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that such use is available to the general public.
(Ord. 248, Series 1994, passed 2-26-1995)
§ 36.09  REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall represent
any person or business, other than the city, in connection with any cause,
proceeding, application or other matter pending before the city or any city
agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matters concerning his or her own interests.
   (C)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry that otherwise legally is permissible, for information on behalf of a
constituent, if no compensation, reward or other thing of value is promised to,
given to, or accepted by the officer, whether directly or indirectly, in return
for the inquiry.
(Ord. 248, Series 1994, passed 2-26-1995)
§ 36.10  MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency intentionally shall
use or disclose information acquired in the course of his or her official
duties, if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further his or
her personal financial interest or that of another person or business.
Information shall be deemed confidential, if it is not subject to disclosure
pursuant to the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 to 61.884, at the time of
its use or disclosure.
(Ord. 248, Series 1994, passed 2-26-1995)
§ 36.11  POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall appear or
practice before the city or any city agency with respect to any matter on which
the officer or employee personally worked while in the service of the city or
city agency for a period of 1 year after the termination of the officer’s or
employee’s service with the city or city agency.
(Ord. 248, Series 1994, passed 2-26-1995)
§ 36.12  HONORARIA.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall accept any
compensation, honorarium or gift with a fair market value greater than $100 in
consideration of an appearance, speech or article unless the appearance, speech
or article is both related to the officer’s or employee’s activities outside of
municipal service and is unrelated to the officer’s or employee’s service with
the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency from receiving from the city and retaining, for himself
or herself or on behalf of the city, actual and reasonable out-of-pocket
expenses incurred by the officer or employee in connection with an appearance,
speech or article, provided that the officer or employee can show by clear and
convincing evidence that the expenses were incurred or received on behalf of
the city or city agency and primarily for the benefit of the city or city
agency and not primarily for the benefit of the officer or employee or any
other person.
(Ord. 248, Series 1994, passed 2-26-1995)
§ 36.13  WHO MUST FILE.
   The following officers and employees of the city and city agencies shall
file an annual statement of financial interests with the Board of Ethics:
   (A)   Elected officials;
   (B)   Candidates for elective office;
   (C)   Members of the Board of Ethics created by this chapter; and
   (D)   Nonelected officers and employees of the city or any city agency who
are authorized to make purchases of materials or services, or award contracts,
leases or agreements involving the expenditure of more than $500.
(Ord. 248, Series 1994, passed 2-26-1995)
§ 36.14  FILING STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this section
shall be filed with the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated as the custodian of its records on or before May 15, 1995. All
subsequent statements of financial interest shall be filed on or before May 15
of each subsequent year, provided that:
      (1)   An officer or employee newly-appointed to fill an office or
position of employment with the city or a city agency shall file his or her
initial statement on or before the thirtieth day immediately following the date
of appointment.
      (2)   A candidate for city office shall file his or her initial statement
no later than 30 days after the date on which the person becomes a candidate
for elective city office.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant an extension of time, reasonable as to
duration, for filing a statement of financial interests, for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board, the officer or
employee, no later than 30 days after becoming aware of the material change,
shall file an amended statement with the Board.
(Ord. 248, Series 1994, passed 2-26-1995)
§ 36.15  FORM OF STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   The statement of financial interests may be required to be filed on a form
prescribed by the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated by
the Board of Ethics. The Board, or the designated administrative official,
shall deliver a copy of the form to each officer and employee required to file
the statement, by first class mail or hand delivery, no later than January 15
of each year. The failure of the Board, or the designated administrative
official, to deliver a copy of the form to any officer or employee shall not
relieve the officer or employee of, the obligation to file the statement.
(Ord. 248, Series 1994, passed 2-26-1995)
§ 36.16  CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics shall be the “official custodian” of the
statements of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance
of the statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests
shall be maintained by the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated by the Board of Ethics as the “custodian”, as public documents,
available for public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the Board, or
the designated administrative official, as follows:
      (1)   Upon the expiration of 3 years after a person ceases to be an
officer or employee of the city or a city agency, the Board shall cause to be
destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those statements
filed by the person.
      (2)   Upon the expiration of 3 years after any election at which a
candidate for elected city office was not elected or not nominated, the Board
shall cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of
those statements filed by that candidate.
(Ord. 248, Series 1994, passed 2-26-1995; Am. Ord. 6, Series 2015, passed 10-
28-2015)
§ 36.17  CONTENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number and
home address of the filer;
      (2)   The title of the filer’s office, office sought or position of
employment;
      (3)   The occupation of the filer and the filer’s spouse;
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer and
of the filer’s immediate family members exceeding $5,000 during the preceding
calendar year, and the nature of the income (e.g., salary, commission,
dividends, retirement fund distribution and the like);
      (5)   The name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had at any time
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 at fair market value
or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (6)   The name and address of any business located outside of the state,
if the business has engaged in any business transaction with the city during
the past 3 years, or which is anticipated to engage in any business transaction
with the city, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family
had at any time during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 at
fair market value or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (7)   A designation as commercial, residential, or rural, and the
location of, all real property within the county, other than the filer’s
primary residence, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate
family had during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 or more;
      (8)   Each source by name and address of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of more than $100 from any single source, excluding
gifts received from family members, received by the filer or any member of the
filer’s immediate family during the preceding calendar year; and
      (9)   The name and address of any creditor owed more than $10,000, except
debts arising from the purchase of a primary residence or the purchase of
consumer goods which are bought or used primarily for personal, family or
household purposes.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts or the names of individual
clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income.
(Ord. 248, Series 1994, passed 2-26-1995)
§ 36.18  NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT; SPECIFIC PENALTIES; VIOLATION.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics, or the designated administrative official, shall
notify by certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial
interests, who fails to file a statement of financial interests, fails to file
the statement by the due date, files an incomplete statement, or files a
statement in a form other than that prescribed by the Board. The notice shall
specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall demand that the failure or
delinquency be remedied, shall establish a date by which the failure or
delinquency shall be remedied, and shall advise the person of the penalties for
a violation.
   (B)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who fails or
refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice under
division (A) within the time period established in the notice shall be guilty
of a civil offense and shall be subject to a civil penalty imposed by the Board
in an amount not to exceed $20 per day, up to a maximum total civil penalty of
$100. Any civil penalty imposed by the Board under this section may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender
fails or refuses to pay the penalty within the prescribed period of time.
   (C)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial interests
which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally omits
required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 248, Series 1994, passed 2-26-1995)  Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.19  NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or city agency shall advocate,
recommend or cause the:
      (1)   Employment;
      (2)   Appointment;
      (3)   Promotion;
      (4)   Transfer; or
      (5)   Advancement of a family member to an office or position of
employment with the city or a city agency.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the city or city agency shall supervise or
manage the work of a family member.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall participate in any action relating to the
employment or discipline of a family member, except that this prohibition shall
not prevent an elected or appointed official from voting on or participating in
the development of a budget which includes compensation for a family member,
provided that the family member is included only as a member of a class of
persons or group, and the family member benefits to no greater extent than any
other similarly situated member of the class or group.
   (D)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to
January 1, 1995.
   (E)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which involves an
individual hired or employed as casual labor, and whose compensation does not
exceed $1,000 per fiscal year.
(Ord. 248, Series 1994, passed 2-26-1995)
§ 36.20  BOARD OF ETHICS CREATED.
   (A)   (1)   There is created hereby a Board of Ethics, which shall have the
authorities, duties and responsibilities as set forth in this chapter to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   The Board of Ethics shall consist of 3 members who shall be
appointed by the Mayor subject to the approval of the City Council. The initial
members of the Board of Ethics shall be appointed within 60 days of the
effective date of this chapter. No member of the Board of Ethics shall hold any
elected or appointed office, whether paid or unpaid, or any position of
employment with the city or any city agency. The members shall serve for a term
of 3 years; except that with respect to the members initially appointed, 1
member shall be appointed for a term of 1 year, 1 member shall be appointed for
a term of 2 years, and 1 member shall be appointed for a term of 3 years.
Thereafter, all appointments shall be for a term of 3 years. Each member of the
Board of Ethics shall have been a resident of the city for at least 1 year
prior to the date of the appointment and shall reside in the city throughout
the term in office. The members of the Board of Ethics shall be chosen by
virtue of their known and consistent reputation for integrity and their
knowledge of local government affairs. The members may be re-appointed for any
number of consecutive terms.
      (3)   A member of the Board of Ethics may be removed by the Mayor subject
to the approval of the City Council for misconduct, inability or willful
neglect of duties. Before any member of the Board of Ethics is removed from
office under this section, the member shall be afforded the opportunity for a
hearing before the Mayor and City Council.
      (4)   Vacancies on the Board of Ethics shall be filled within 60 days by
the Mayor, subject to the approval of the City Council. If a vacancy is not
filled by the City Council within 60 days, the remaining members of the Board
of Ethics shall fill the vacancy. All vacancies shall be filled for the
remainder of the unexpired term.
      (5)   Members of the Board of Ethics shall serve without compensation,
unless otherwise approved by the City Council, but shall be reimbursed for all
necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
      (6)   The Board of Ethics shall, upon the initial appointment of its
members, and annually thereafter, elect a chairperson from among the
membership. The Chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting
member of the Board.
      (7)   Meetings of the Board of Ethics shall be held, as necessary, upon
the call of the Chairperson or at the written request of a majority of the
members.
      (8)   The presence of 2 or more members shall constitute a quorum and the
affirmative vote of 2 or more members shall be necessary for any official
action to be taken. Any member of the Board of Ethics who has a conflict of
interest with respect to any matter to be considered by the Board shall
disclose the nature of the conflict, shall disqualify himself or herself from
voting on the matter, and shall not be counted for purposes of establishing a
quorum.
      (9)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board of Ethics,
and the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded
in the minutes.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   To initiate on its own motion, receive and investigate complaints,
hold hearings and make findings of fact and determinations with regard to
alleged violations of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   To issue orders in connection with its investigations and hearings
requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to the proceedings and to order testimony to be
taken by deposition before any individual designated by the Board who has the
power to administer oaths;
      (3)   To administer oaths and to issue orders requiring the attendance
and testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating
to an investigation or hearing conducted by the Board;
      (4)   To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to
the Mayor, the governing body of any city agency, the county attorney, or other
appropriate person or body, as necessary;
      (5)   To render advisory opinions to city and city agency officers and
employees regarding whether a given set of facts and circumstances would
constitute a violation of any provision of this chapter; and
      (6)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all
officers and employees of the city and city agencies who are subject to its
terms, by issuing appropriate orders and imposing penalties authorized by this
chapter.
(Ord. 248, Series 1994, passed 2-26-1995)
§ 36.21  FILING AND INVESTIGATING COMPLAINTS; FALSE COMPLAINTS; PENALTY.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Board of Ethics, or the administrative
official designated by the Board of Ethics. All complaints shall be in writing,
shall be signed by the complainant, and shall meet any other reasonable
requirements established by the Board of Ethics. The Board of Ethics shall
acknowledge that it has received a complaint, by giving notice thereof to the
complainant within 10 days from the date of receipt. Within 10 working days
after such receipt of complaint, the Board shall forward to each officer or
employee of the city or city agency who is the subject of the complaint, a copy
of the complaint and a general statement of the applicable provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Within 30 days of receipt of a proper complaint, the Board of Ethics
shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations contained in the
complaint. The Board shall afford a person who is the subject of the complaint
an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the complaint. The person shall
have the right to be represented by legal counsel, to appear and be heard under
oath, and to offer evidence in response to the allegations.
   (C)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Board of Ethics shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Board, except:
      (1)   The Board may refer to the Commonwealth’s Attorney or County
Attorney evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings.
      (2)   If the complainant or alleged violator publicly discloses the
existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Board may confirm publicly the
existence of the inquiry, and, at its discretion, may make public any documents
which were issued to either party.
   (D)   The Board shall make a determination based on its preliminary inquiry
whether the complaint is within its jurisdiction and, if so, whether it alleges
facts which, if proven, would constitute a violation of this chapter. If the
Board concludes that the complaint is outside of its jurisdiction, frivolous or
without factual basis, the Board immediately shall terminate the inquiry,
reduce the conclusion to writing, and transmit a copy of its decision to the
complainant and to all officers or employees against whom the complaint was
filed.
   (E)   If the Board of Ethics concludes, based upon its preliminary inquiry,
that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations which,
if proven, would constitute a violation, the Board shall notify the officer or
employee who is the subject of the complaint and may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances, such as lack of significant
economic advantage or gain by the officer or employee, lack of economic loss to
the city and its taxpayers, or lack of significant impact on public confidence
in city government, issue in writing, a reprimand to the officer or employee
concerning the alleged violation and provide a copy of the reprimand to the
mayor and City Council; and/or
      (2)   Initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation.
   (F)   Any person who knowingly files with the Board a false complaint
alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter by an officer or employee
of the city or city agency shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 248, Series 1994, passed 2-26-1995; Am. Ord. 6, Series 2015, passed 10-
28-2015)
§ 36.22  NOTICE OF HEARING.
   If the Board of Ethics determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, the Board shall issue an order setting
the matter for a hearing within 30 days of the date the order is issued, unless
the alleged violator petitions for and the Board consents to a later date. The
order setting the matter for hearing, along with a copy of any pertinent
regulations of the Board relating to the hearing, shall be sent to the alleged
violator within 24 hours of the time the order setting a hearing is issued.
(Ord. 248, Series 1994, passed 2-26-1995)
§ 36.23  HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure and the Kentucky Rules of
Evidence shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Board of Ethics; however,
the hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in
accordance with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Board so as
to afford all parties due process.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator, or his
or her representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Board in connection with the
matter to be heard. The Board shall inform the alleged violator, or his or her
representative, of any exculpatory evidence in its possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a Board hearing shall be taken under oath and shall
be administered by the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to
call and examine witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross-examine witnesses,
to submit evidence, and to be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have
the right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
affected adversely thereby may appear personally before the Board, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (E)   All hearings of the Board of Ethics shall be public, unless the
members meet in executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810.
   (F)   As soon as practicable after the conclusion of the hearing, the Board
of Ethics shall begin deliberations in executive session for the purpose of
reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether a violation
of this chapter has been proven. Within 30 days after completion of the
hearing, the Board shall issue a written report of its findings and
conclusions.
   (G)   If the Board concludes in its report that no violation has occurred,
it immediately shall send written notice of this determination to the officer
or employee who was the subject of the complaint and to the party who filed the
complaint.
   (H)   If the Board concludes in its report that in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and convincing proof of a
violation of this chapter, the Board may:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation;
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the Mayor and City Council;
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the Mayor and the City Council that the
violator be sanctioned as recommended by the Board, which may include a
recommendation for discipline or dismissal, or removal from office;
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $250; and/or
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this chapter or state laws
to the County Attorney or Commonwealth’s Attorney for prosecution.
(Ord. 248, Series 1994, passed 2-26-1995)
§ 36.24  LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter shall be brought within 1 year after
the violation is discovered.
(Ord. 248, Series 1994, passed 2-26-1995)
§ 36.25  ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics may render advisory opinions concerning matters
within its jurisdiction, based upon real or hypothetical facts and
circumstances, upon its own initiative, or when requested by an officer or
employee of the city or city agency.
   (B)   An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing, and such request
shall state relevant facts and ask specific questions. The request for an
advisory opinion shall remain confidential unless confidentiality is waived, in
writing, by the requestor.
   (C)   The Board may adopt regulations, consistent with the Kentucky Open
Records Law, to establish criteria under which it will issue confidential
advisory opinions. All other advisory opinions shall be
public documents, except that before an advisory opinion is made public, it
shall be modified so that-the identity of any person associated with the
opinion shall not be revealed.
   (D)   The confidentiality of an advisory opinion may be waived either:
      (1)   In writing by the person who requested the opinion; or
      (2)   By majority vote of the members of the Board, if a person makes or
purports to make public the substance or any portion of an advisory opinion
requested by or on behalf of that person. The Board may make public the
advisory opinion request and related materials.
   (E)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be binding on the
Board in any subsequent proceeding concerning the facts and circumstances of
the particular case, if no intervening facts or circumstances arise which would
change the opinion of the Board if they had existed at the time the opinion was
rendered. However, if any fact determined by the Board to be material was
omitted or misstated in the request for an opinion, the Board shall not be
bound by the opinion.
   (F)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be admissible in
the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil proceeding for violations of
this chapter for actions taken in reliance on that opinion.
(Ord. 248, Series 1994, passed 2-26-1995)
§ 36.26  REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or city agency shall subject to
reprisal, or directly or indirectly use, or threaten to use, any official
authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage,
restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce or discriminate against any
person who in good faith reports, discloses, divulges or otherwise brings to
the attention of the Board of Ethics or any other agency or official of the
city or the Commonwealth any facts or information relative to an actual or
suspected violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting disciplinary or
punitive action if an officer or employee of the city or city agency discloses
information which he or she knows;
      (1)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity;
      (2)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of the
Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 to 61.884; and
      (3)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Ord. 248, Series 1994, passed 2-26-1995)
§ 36.27  CONFLICTING ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   All other ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with this chapter
are hereby repealed to the extent of the conflict.
(Ord. 248, Series 1994, passed 2-26-1995)
§ 36.28  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take full force and effect immediately upon publication
as required by KRS 83A.060.
(Ord. 248, Series 1994, passed 2-26-1995)
§ 36.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Except when another penalty specifically is set forth in this chapter,
any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by the
Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to a civil penalty imposed by the
Board of Ethics not to exceed $250 which may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails to pay the penalty
within a prescribed period of time.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or city agency who is found by the
Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall forfeit to
the city or the city agency an amount equal to the economic benefit or gain
which the officer or employee is determined by the Board to have realized as a
result of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be recovered by the
city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails to pay the
penalty within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board of Ethics that an officer or employee of the
city or city agency is guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be
sufficient cause for removal, suspension, demotion or other disciplinary action
by the Mayor. Any action to remove or discipline any officer or employee for a
violation of this chapter shall be taken in accordance with all applicable
ordinances and regulations of the city and all applicable laws of the
Commonwealth.
(Ord. 248, Series 1994, passed 2-26-1995)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
[Reserved]
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of city or Mayor
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
   
70.06   Boat operations
   
70.07   Master street plan
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Signal legends
   
70.16   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.17   Obedience to signals
   
70.18   Interference with signals
   
70.19   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.20   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.21   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
 
   
70.99   General penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.  Vehicles of the Fire Department or city or
Mayor, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney’s office when on official business
and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD.  Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing the boulevard.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT.  Any portion of any street between 2 consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK.  That portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and such other portions of the roadway
between 2 intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and
marked by stanchions, paint lines or otherwise.
   CURB.  The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION.  That part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of 2 or more streets which join at an angle whether or not 1
street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.  All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the Chief
of Police.
   ONE-WAY STREET.  A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in 1
direction only.
   OPERATOR.  Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK.  When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN.  Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET.  Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Mayor and
reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is barred, except
vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT.  The city or Mayor or other persons or agency authorized
to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY.  The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and foot
paths.
   REVERSE TURN.  To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to
proceed in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY.  That portion of any street, improved, designated or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK.  That portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING.  As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET.  Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC.  Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE.  Every device in, on, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn on any street except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
§ 70.02  REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, the
state, county or city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate
any of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in
this traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03  POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY OR MAYOR.
   It shall be the duty of the city or Mayor to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
§ 70.04  AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the city or Mayor, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle or any other signal.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05  TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Mayor or other authorized city official shall, at
his or her discretion, have authority to impose such traffic regulations as he
or she may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed 2 weeks.  If
these temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than 2 weeks, the
City Clerk shall be notified in writing of the extended order.
§ 70.06  BOAT OPERATIONS.
   (A)   The city is empowered to regulate the operation of boats, that any
boat parked upon the street must be affixed on a trailer, that no boat may be
parked upon the streets within the city for more than a 24 hour period.
   (B)   Any owners and/or operators having a boat parked upon his or her
premises must have the boat on a trailer in order to protect the safety and
welfare of any person coming up on the property.
   (C)   This section is effective upon its passage end publication thereof.
(Ord. 43, passed 9-20-1965)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07  MASTER STREET PLAN.
   (A)   The primary streets are Stonehurst, Hermitage Way, Bayberry Place,
Blossom Lane and Colonel Drive.
   (B)   All other streets are considered secondary streets.
   (C)   Traffic-control devices involved are stop signs, yield signs, no
parking here to corner and no parking signs.
   (D)   The city has the authority to place traffic control devices where it
is believed proper; however, the City Council has the prerogative to make any
changes.
   (E)   All present regulations presently in force and locations shall be
filed and indexed with this section.
(Ord. 95, Series 1975, passed 3-17-1975)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15  SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “Go,” “Caution” or “Stop,” or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows:
   (A)   Green alone or “Go”.  Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn.  However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time
such signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or
“Go” signal.  Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection.  Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter
and clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “Stop”.  Vehicular traffic facing the
signal shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or
at such other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall
remain standing until green or “Go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone.  Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed
until it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone.  Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall
reduce its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by
such signal.
   (F)   “Yield Right-of-Way”.  Vehicular traffic facing the “Yield Right-of-
Way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way.  All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within such primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way.  No vehicle facing a “Yield Right-of-Way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 mph, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles entering an
expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights.  When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear.  However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above such lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them.  If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at such place prohibits
the turn.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.16  ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city.  All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate 1 particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly.  All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.17  OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic- control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for the barrier
or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18  INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any part thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.19  UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic device or
railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the movement of
traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or signal. 
No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit on any
street, any traffic sign or signal any commercial advertising.  Nothing in this
section shall be construed as restricting any public department or public
utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily from marking or erecting
any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been approved by the city.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20  DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
§ 70.21  TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may at his or her discretion disregard
traffic-control lights or signals or established regulations in order to
facilitate the movement of traffic.
§ 70.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no
other penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be fined not less than $20, nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any owner or operator of a boat not complying with §
70.06 may be fined a minimum of $10 or maximum of $100.  If §
70.06 is in conflict with any state statute that the state statute would apply.
(Ord. 43, passed 9-20-1965)
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
Accidents
   
71.15   Duty of operator
   
71.16   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.25   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.26   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.27   Smoke emission or other nuisance
   
71.28   Gross weight of trucks
Parades
   
71.40   Definitions
   
71.41   Permit required
   
71.42   Application for permit
   
71.43   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.44   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.45   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.46   Alternative permit
   
71.47   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.48   Contents of permit
   
71.49   Duties of permittee
   
71.50   Public conduct during parades
   
71.51   Revocation of permit
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01  OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance.  Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he or she shall be deemed to have violated this
division rather than division (B) above.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02  REVERSE OR U TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless the movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8))  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03  BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement.  A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04  VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Mayor or other authorized city official.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive
the vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building or lot and across a sidewalk,
or its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension.
      (2)   On entering the roadway from the alley, driveway or building the
operator shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
      (3)   The operator of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn
into an alley from the roadway may do so at low speed and with caution. 
Penalty, see §
71.99
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.15  DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render such assistance as may be needed.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.16  ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the city or Mayor.
Penalty, see §
71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.25  OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   No person shall willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in such a
manner as to injure the highway.
(KRS 189.290) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.26  RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, 1 or more flashing, rotating or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust whistle
or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way,
immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to, the
edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and stop and remain in
such position until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise
directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall keep such position until
the emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer
or firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he or she
drive into, park the vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the block where
the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he or
she is directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway, or track for use at any fire alarm unless the fire department
official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   Upon approaching a stationary emergency vehicle or public safety
vehicle, when the emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal
by displaying alternately flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or
blue lights, a person who drives an approaching vehicle shall,  while
proceeding with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the authorized emergency vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes
with not fewer than 2 lanes proceeding in the same direction as the approaching
vehicle; and
         (b)   If it is possible to make the lane change with due regard to
safety and traffic conditions; or
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if changing lanes would be impossible or unsafe.
   (F)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.27  SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.28  GROSS WEIGHT OF TRUCKS.
   (A)   No truck shall use the streets when its gross weight exceeds 18,000
pounds.
   (B)   This section takes effect upon its passage and approval.
(Ord. 33, Series 1963, passed 7-15-1963)
PARADES
§ 71.40  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE.  Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park or other public place in the city.
   PARADE PERMIT.  A permit required by this subchapter.
§ 71.41  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Mayor or
other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.42  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by such
officer.
   (A)   Filing period.  The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than 5 days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of or by
an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairman and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his or her behalf; and
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.43  STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Mayor or other authorized city official shall issue a permit when, from
a consideration of the application and from other information obtained, he or
she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of fire
fighting equipment enroute to a fire; and
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays enroute.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.44  NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Mayor or other authorized city official shall act on the application for
a parade permit within 3 days, Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excepted, after
filing thereof.  If he or she disapproves the application, he or she shall mail
to the applicant within the 3 days, Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excepted,
after the date on which the application was filed, a notice of his or her
action stating the reasons for his or her denial of the permit.
§ 71.45  APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council.  The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial.  The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days
after its receipt.
§ 71.46  ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Mayor or other authorized city official, in denying an application for a
parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of the parade on a
date, at a time or over a route different than that named by the applicant.  An
applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a written notice of
his or her acceptance.  An alternate parade permit shall conform to the
requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit under this
subchapter.
§ 71.47  NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief; and
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
§ 71.48  CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park or other public place to be
traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.49  DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   (A)   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and
conditions and with all applicable laws and ordinances.
   (B)   The parade chairman or other person heading or leading the activity
shall carry the parade permit on his or her person during the conduct of the
parade.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.50  PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference.  No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades.  No driver of a vehicle except a police car
or other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons
comprising a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are
conspicuously designated as a parade.
Cross reference:
    Parking on parade routes, see §
72.07
§ 71.51  REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.26 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $60 nor
more than $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 30 days,
or both.  (KRS 189.993(8))
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
71.28 shall be fined $10 to $100 for each offense.
(Ord. 33, Series 1963, passed 7-15-1963)
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.12   Parking with handicapped permits
   
72.13   Buses and trucks
   
72.14   Parking for aging and handicapped
Impounding
   
72.20   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
72.21   Required notice to owner
   
72.22   Sale of vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.35   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.36   Termination of emergency
   
72.37   Snow emergency routes
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines, and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS
65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01  OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction or hindrance in or on any street,
alley or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02  MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a 1-
way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for commercial
loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its 2
right wheels are within 6 inches of and parallel with the curb, except that on
1way streets where parking is permitted on the left side the 2 left wheels are
to be within 6 inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that the
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes.  The backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway by moving vehicles or occupies road
space within 10 feet of the center line of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto.  However, diagonal parking shall not
be established where the roadway space required therefor would be within 10
feet of the center line of any street.  The diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which the vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park such
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for 1 vehicle.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park any vehicle except for on a
hard surface, that being asphalt or concrete.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03  LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stop or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic control device, in the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities;
      (3)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (4)   Within an intersection or crosswalk;
      (5)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking;
      (6)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, stop sign, or traffic
control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (7)   On any controlled access highway;
      (8)   Within a highway tunnel;
      (9)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant; or
   (10)   In an area between the roadways of a divided highway.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area.
(KRS 189.450(5), (6))   Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04  RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his or her duty to observe other and more
restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of
vehicles in specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to handicapped parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice
thereof.  However, in lieu of erecting such signs or in conjunction therewith,
the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is
prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No such regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the
signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the
time of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions
which by their very nature would not require the signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05  PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day.  It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06  PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any 1 place any vehicle on any of
the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer.  Any
vehicle left parked in any 1 place on any of the public ways or streets of the
city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed abandoned, and shall be
subject to all existing regulations of the city pertaining to abandoned motor
vehicles.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Removal of abandoned vehicles, see §
72.21et seq.
§ 72.07  PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Mayor or other authorized city official shall have the authority,
whenever in his or her judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or restrict the
parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a part of the
route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs to that
effect, and to prohibit and prevent the parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of the signs or directions.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§
71.40 through
71.51
§ 72.08  PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another’s property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee or person in charge of such property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned or otherwise trespasses
in violation of division (A) of this section, the owner, lessee or person in
charge of the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle
removed in accordance with the provisions of §§
72.20 through
72.22.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the owner’s
expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B).
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.09  OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10  PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot or tot lot within the city not
designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a roadway. 
However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as prohibiting
the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and regularly
maintained roadway in any such park or playground where at least 2 wheels of
the motor vehicle are resting on the roadway.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11  DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12  PARKING WITH HANDICAPPED PERMITS.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for handicapped persons, when operated by a
handicapped person or when transporting a handicapped person, may be parked in
a designated handicapped parking place, or when parked in a metered parking
space may be parked for 2 hours for no fee, or when parked where any parking
limit is imposed may be parked for two hours in excess of the parking limit. 
The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone for that period of time
necessary to permit entrance or exit of the handicapped person to or from the
parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a “no stopping” or “no
parking” zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13  BUSES AND TRUCKS.
   (A)   (1)   Buses shall be defined as those self-propelled vehicles that are
designed primarily for passenger transportation and exceed 20 feet in length.
      (2)   Trucks shall be defined as those vehicles which are used primarily
for the transportation of goods and exceed 20 feet in length.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
park a bus or a truck within the corporate limits of the city unless the
parking is pursuant to the active loading or unloading of the vehicle.
      (2)   The city may, from time to time, establish parking areas for buses
and trucks pursuant to municipal order.
      (3)   The owner or operator of a bus or truck may obtain a permit to park
the vehicle within the corporate limits for a period not to exceed 24 hours. 
The permit shall be issued by the Chief of Police. The administrative fee for a
permit shall be $3 and no more than 1 permit may be issued for a particular
vehicle within a 30-day period.
(Ord. 159, Series 1984, passed 3-19-1984)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.14  PARKING FOR AGING AND HANDICAPPED.
   (A)   (1)   All owners of off-street parking facilities intended for public
use shall have a number of level parking spaces as set forth in the following
table, identified by above grade signs as reserved for physically handicapped
persons.  Each reserved parking space shall be not less than 12 feet wide.
Accessible Parking Spaces
Total Parking in Lot Required Number of Accessible Spaces
Accessible Parking Spaces
Total Parking in Lot Required Number of Accessible Spaces
up to 25             1
26 to 50             2
51 to 75             3
76 to 100            4
101 to 150           5
151 to 200           6
 
      (2)   Parking spaces for the physically handicapped shall be located as
close as possible to elevators, ramps, walkways and entrances. Parking spaces
shall be located so that the physically handicapped persons are not compelled
to wheel or walk behind parked cars to reach entrances, ramps, walkways and
elevators.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the term HANDICAPPED PERSON means a
person confined to a wheelchair; a person who uses braces or crutches; a person
who, because of the loss of a foot or leg or because of an arthritic, spastic,
pulmonary or cardiac condition, walks with difficulty or insecurity; a person
who suffers from faulty coordination or palsy; a person who is so impaired
that, functioning in a public area, he or she is insecure or exposed to danger;
and a person whose mobility, flexibility, coordination and perceptiveness are
significantly reduced by aging or by temporary disability.
   (C)   A vehicle operated by or transporting a handicapped person shall be
evidenced by:
      (1)   A special license plate for a handicapped person issued pursuant to
KRS 186.042 or;
      (2)   A special parking permit for a handicapped person issued by the
Jefferson County Clerk.
   (D)   A motor vehicle bearing a special parking ,permit or license plate for
handicapped persons when operated by a handicapped person or when transporting
a handicapped person may be parked in a designated handicapped parking place,
or when parked where any parking limit is imposed may be parked for two hours
in excess of the parking limit.  This section shall neither permit parking in a
no stopping or no parking zone, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such
a manner as to constitute a traffic hazard.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall make, issue or knowingly use any imitation or
counterfeit of a special parking permit or license plate for the handicapped.
      (2)   No person shall display or cause or permit to be displayed upon any
vehicle the permit knowing it to be ficitious or issued for another person.
      (3)   No unauthorized person shall knowingly possess a special parking
permit or license plate for the handicapped.
(Ord. 166, Series 1984, passed - -)
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.20  IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All police officers are empowered to authorize the impoundment of a
vehicle violating vehicle- related ordinances after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the city or Mayor.  Should a vehicle be moved without the consent
and approval of the city or Mayor a warrant shall be issued immediately for the
violator's arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle’s release.
§ 72.21  REQUIRED NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported
pursuant to order of police, other public authority or private person or
business for any reason or when the vehicle has been stolen or misappropriated
and its removal from the public ways has been ordered by police, other public
authority or by private person or business, or in any other situation where a
motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported by order of police,
other authority or by private person or business, the police, other authority
or private person or business shall attempt to ascertain from the state’s
Transportation Cabinet the identity of the registered owner of the motor
vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as defined in KRS Ch. 281 and within 10
business days of the removal shall, by certified mail, attempt to notify the
registered owner at the address of record of the make, model, license number
and vehicle identification number of the vehicle, of the location of the
vehicle and of the requirements for securing the release of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   If a vehicle described in division (A) is placed in a garage or other
storage facility, the owner of the facility shall attempt to provide the notice
provided in division (A) by certified mail to the registered owner at the
address of record of the motor vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as defined
in KRS Ch. 281 within 10 business days of recovery of, or taking possession of
the motor vehicle.  This notice shall contain the information as to the make,
model, license number and identification number of the vehicle, the location of
the vehicle and the amount of reasonable charges for towing, recovery, storage,
transporting, and other applicable charges due on the vehicle.  When the owner
of the facility fails to provide notice as provided herein, the motor vehicle
storage facility shall forfeit all storage fees accrued after 10 business days
from the date of tow.  This division (B) shall not apply to a tow lot or
storage facility owned or operated by the city.
(KRS 376.275(1), (2))
§ 72.22  SALE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor
vehicles, who has substantially complied with the aforementioned requirements
of this section, shall have a lien on the motor vehicle and its contents,
except as set forth in division (D) of this section, for the reasonable or
agreed charges for towing, recovery, storage, transporting, and other
applicable charges due on the vehicle, as long as it remains in his or her
possession.
   (B)   Prior to payment of fees and release of a vehicle, a towing or storage
company shall not refuse the right of physical inspection of the towed vehicle
by the owner or an insurance company representative. Release of the vehicle
shall occur to the owner or insurance company representative upon payment and
consent of the release from the owner or the owner's authorized representative.
Each additional service shall be set forth individually as a single line item
in the bill with an explanation and the exact charge for the service.
   (C)   If after a period of 45 days, the reasonable or agreed charges for
towing, recovery, storage, transporting, and other applicable charges due on a
motor vehicle and its contents have not been paid, the motor vehicle and its
contents, except as set forth in division (D) of this section, may be sold to
pay the charges after the owner has been notified by certified mail 10 days
prior to the time and place of the sale. If the proceeds of the sale of any
vehicle pursuant to this section are insufficient to satisfy accrued charges
for towing, transporting, and storage, the sale and collection of proceeds
shall not constitute a waiver or release of responsibility for payment of
unpaid towing, transporting, and storage charges by the owner or responsible
casualty insurer of the vehicle. A lien on a vehicle under this division shall
be subject to prior recorded liens.
   (D)   A lien holder having a prior recorded lien listed on the title issued
by the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be notified by certified mail within the
first 15 days of impoundment. The letter shall include the make, model, license
number, vehicle identification number, owner's name and last known address, and
tentative date of sale for the vehicle. If the above-referenced certified
letter is not sent within the 15 days by the towing and storage company, then
only 15 days of storage may be charged. The lien holder has the right to take
possession of the motor vehicle after showing proof of lien still enforced, and
paying the reasonable or agreed towing and storage charges on the motor
vehicle. Nothing in this section shall allow the transfer of a vehicle subject
to a lien, except as provided in KRS 186A.190.
(KRS 376.275(3))
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.35  ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever the Mayor or other authorized city official finds that
falling snow, sleet or freezing rain will create a condition which makes it
necessary for the city to clear snow (over 2 inches), or if Jefferson County
School System has cancelled school and that the parking of motor vehicles on
snow emergency routes be prohibited, or whenever he or she finds on the basis
of a firm forecast of snow, sleet, or freezing rain, he or she is authorized to
announce such prohibition, to become effective at a time specified by him or
her.
   (B)   After the effective time of such prohibition no person shall park any
vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a snow emergency route. 
However, if a fall of snow, sleet or freezing rain occurs after 11:00 p.m. and
prior to 6:00 a.m., and the Mayor or other authorized city official has not
announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency routes is to be
prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow emergency route
may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following such fall.
   (C)   The prohibition of parking announced by the Mayor or other authorized
city official on the city’s website, under the authority of this section shall
remain in effect until he or she announces the termination of the snow
emergency, in part or in which the prohibition of parking authorized by this
section shall no longer be in effect.
(Am. Ord. 4, Series 2014-2015, passed 5-28-2014)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.36  TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Mayor or other authorized city official shall find that some or
all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency prohibition no
longer exist, he or she is authorized to declare the termination of the
emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on announcement.  If such
announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it shall be
repeated between those hours.
§ 72.37  SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Mayor
or other authorized city official.  On such street or highway designated as a
snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this effect.
Editor’s note:
   Designated snow emergency routes, see
Ch. 75, Sch. II
§ 72.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city
shall be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be fined in an amount
not less than $20 nor more than $100.
(KRS 189.990(1))
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation that is found guilty of violating an
provision of §
72.13 shall be fined $20 for each offense and each day that a violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 159, Series 1984, passed 3-19-1984)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates any of the provisions in §
72.14 shall be fined $100.
      (2)   (a)   Any person or business that violates §
72.14(A) shall be fined not less than $25 nor more that $100.  Each day that
the person or business is in violation shall constitute a separate offense.
         (b)   The owner or operator of any vehicle parked in a “Handicapped
Only” parking space without a duly issued permit shall be fined not less than
$25 nor more than $100.
         (c)   The owner or operator of any vehicle marked with a special
parking permit or license plate which is not being used for the benefit of a
handicapped person, or while being used for the benefit of a handicapped person
exceeds the time limit set out above, shall be fined not less than $25 and not
more than $100.
         (d)   The owner and or operator of any vehicle parked in a
“Handicapped Only” parking area with an expired special parking permit or
license plate shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100.
(Ord. 166, Series 1984, passed - -)
CHAPTER 73:  BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Safety equipment
   
73.03   Motorized bicycle; scooter, and the like
   
73.04   Impounding bicycles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01  OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every person riding a bicycle upon a street shall be granted all of
the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver
of a vehicle. Every person riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk shall be granted
all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to a
pedestrian. The applicable provisions of the traffic code shall apply to
bicycles.
   (B)   A violation of any traffic law by an operator of a bicycle shall be
ticketed using the same procedure as is used for motor vehicle infractions,
except that any violation committed while operating a bicycle shall not affect
the status of the violator's motor vehicle operator's license. When a citation
is issued to a bicycle operator, the fact that violation involves a bicycle
shall be clearly indicated on the citation.
   (C)   Whenever there is a violation of traffic law by a bicycle operator or
a violation by a motorist of traffic law by a bicycle operator or a violation
by a motorist that endangers a bicycle operator, the court may permit
demonstration of successful completion of a court approved cycling knowledge
course or test in lieu of or in addition to a fine or other penalty.
   (D)   A person operating a bicycle or motorcycle shall not ride other than
upon or astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto, nor carry any
other person upon such bicycle or motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached
and regular seat thereon, nor shall any person ride upon a bicycle or
motorcycle other than upon such a firmly attached and regular seat.
   (E)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at 1 time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped, however, the above shall not
prohibit the carrying of a child in a seat or trailer designed for carrying
children and firmly attached to the bicycle.
   (F)   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or
article that prevents the driver from keeping at least one hand upon the handle
bars.
   (G)   No person riding upon any motorcycle, bicycle, coaster, roller skates,
sled or toy vehicle shall attach the same to himself to any vehicle upon a
roadway.
   (H)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person riding upon any
motorcycle, bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled or toy vehicle to attach the
same or himself to any vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway. This section
does not apply to the towing of a disabled vehicle, nor to the towing of a
trailer designed for this purpose.
   (I)   Persons riding bicycle or motorcycles upon a roadway shall ride not
more than 2 abreast in a single lane, except on paths or parts of roadways set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycle or motorcycles.
   (J)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable obeying all traffic rules
applicable to vehicles and exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle
or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (K)   This section does not require a person operating a bicycle to ride at
the edge of the roadway when it is unreasonable or unsafe to do so. Conditions
that my require riding away from the edge of the roadway include when necessary
to avoid fixed or moving objects, parked or moving vehicles, surface hazards,
or if it is otherwise unsafe or impracticable to do so, including if the lane
is too narrow for the bicycle and an overtaking vehicle to travel safely side
by side within the lane.
   (L)   When a bicycle is operated on the roadway, the operator shall give
hand signals to other vehicle operators in the vicinity before turning or
changing lanes. Such signals shall conform with the motor vehicle laws of the
state. A signal shall be made not less than one time but is not required to be
continuous. A bicycle operator is not required to make a signal if the bicycle
is in a designated turn lane, and a signal shall not be given when the
operator's hands are needed for the safe operation of the bicycle.
   (M)   No person shall operate a bicycle:
      (1)   Without due regard for the safety and rights of pedestrians and
drivers and occupants of all other vehicles, and so as to endanger the life,
limb or property of any person while in the lawful use of the streets or
sidewalks or any other public or private property;
      (2)   Without exercising reasonable and ordinary control over such
bicycle;
      (3)   In a weaving or zigzag course unless such irregular course is
necessary for safe operation in compliance with law.
   (N)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic signals, signs and other control devices applicable to vehicles, unless
otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (O)   Whenever authorized signs are erected that no right or left or "U"
turns are permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the direction
of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle to make
any such turn, in which event such person shall then obey the regulations
applicable to pedestrians.
   (P)   Except where required by emergency and service persons, including, but
not limited to such as police, fire and EMS, no person over the age of 11 shall
operate a bicycle on any sidewalk. Additionally, any person riding a bicycle
who is under the age of 18, must wear a helmet.
   (Q)   A person propelling a bicycle upon and along a sidewalk, or across a
roadway upon and along a crosswalk, shall yield the right of way to any
pedestrian and shall give audible signal before overtaking and passing such
pedestrian. This audible signal may be given by the voice or by a bell or other
warning device capable of giving an audible signal and shall be given at such a
distance and in such a manner as not to startle person or persons being
overtaken and passed.
   (R)   A person operating a bicycle upon a sidewalk, before overtaking and
passing a blind person carrying a white cane or guided by a dog, shall dismount
and overtake or pass on foot, if necessary for safety.
   (S)   A person shall not operated a bicycle from a sidewalk so as to
suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and move in to the path of a
vehicle that is so close as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (T)   No person shall operate a bicycle on a sidewalk at a speed greater
that an ordinary walk when approaching or entering a crosswalk or approaching
or crossing a driveway if a vehicle is approaching the crosswalk or driveway.
This paragraph does not require reduced speeds for bicycle when other vehicles
are not present.
   (U)   The operator of a bicycle emerging form an alley, driveway or building
shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alley or driveway, yield the right of way to all pedestrians approaching on
such sidewalk area and upon entering the street shall yield the right of way to
all vehicles approaching on said street.
   (V)   No person shall park a bicycle upon a sidewalk in such a manner so as
to unduly interfere with pedestrian traffic, or upon a roadway so as to unduly
interfere with vehicular traffic. Bicycles shall be parked in such a manner as
not to interfere with building entrances.
   (W)   Motorists must:
      (1)   Share the road with bicyclists.
      (2)   Before passing a cyclist, look to see if there is something in the
right land (debris, parked cars, drainage grates, and the like) that might
cause the cyclist to divert their course to the left. Pass only when the
motorist can allow at least 3 feet between the car and the cyclist. Return to
the lane only when completely clear of the cyclist. Motorists turning right
after passing a cyclist must allow enough room so that the forward path is not
obstructed. When opening a car door, motorist must look for cyclists in the
rear view mirror.
(Ord. 4, Series 2007-2008, passed 4-10-2008)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02  SAFETY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   A bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a
bicycle any siren or whistle.
   (B)   Every bicycle when in use after sunset, shall be equipped with the
following:
      (1)   A lamp mounted on the front of either the bicycle or the operator
that shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to
the front and 300 feet to, the sides. A generator powered lamp, which emits
light only when the bicycle is moving, may be used to meet this requirement.
      (2)   A red reflector on the rear of a type that shall be visible from
all distances from one hundred feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in
front of a lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
      (3)   A light emitting either flashing or steady red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet in the rear shall be used in addition to the reflector. If
the red light performs as a reflector such that it is visible as specified in
division (2) above, it shall satisfy the requirement for a reflector.
      (4)   Additional lights and reflectors may be used in addition to those
required under division (A) above except that red lights and reflectors shall
not be used on the front of the bicycle nor shall white or colorless lights or
reflectors be used on the rear of the bicycle.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with an adequate brake when used on a
street or highway.
(Ord. 4, Series 2007-2008, passed 4-10-2008)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03  MOTORIZED BICYCLE; SCOOTER, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Any and all motorized bicycles, mopeds, scooters, skateboards and any
other related electric or gasoline motorized device which is on the public
roadways must comply with all requirements of motor vehicles in the Kentucky
Revised Statutes in terms of all safety equipment, registration and licensure
requirements.
(Ord. 4, Series 2007-2008, passed 4-10-2008)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 IMPOUNDING BICYCLES.
   Whenever any minor under the age of eighteen years operates a bicycle or
motorized bicycle in violation of any section of this Traffic Code, the bicycle
may be seized by any member of the police department and impounded. A bicycle
or motorized bicycle so impounded shall be surrendered to the owner, or if the
owner is a minor, to the parents of guardians of such minor, and no charge
shall be made. A full explanation of the reason for the impounding shall be
made to the owner.
(Ord. 4, Series 2007-2008, passed 4-10-2008)  Penalty, see §
73.99
73.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to have
committed a violation and shall be fined not more than $50 for each offense.
CHAPTER 74:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Stop intersections
      
II.   Yield intersections
SCHEDULE I.  STOP INTERSECTIONS.
Street Intersection
Street           Intersection
Bayberry Place   Westport Road
Bayberry Place   Curve near Club entrance
Bayberry Place   Hermitage Way
Colonel Drive    Blossom Lane
Cottonwood Drive Blossom Lane
Cottonwood Drive Bayberry Place
Malvern Hill     Hermitage Way
Rhett Butler     Colonel Drive
Savannah Road    Blossom Lane
Savannah Road    Bayberry Place
Stonehurst Drive Westport Road
Stonehurst Drive Hermitage Way
 
(Ord. 95, Series 1975, passed - -)
SCHEDULE II.  YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
 
Street        Intersection
Malvern Hill  Stonehurst Drive
Bayou Way     Colonel Drive
Hermitage Way Blossom Lane
 
(Ord. 95, Series 1975, passed - -)
CHAPTER 75:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Restricted parking
      
II.   Snow emergency routes
SCHEDULE I.  RESTRICTED PARKING.
Street Location Restrictions Ord. No. Date Passed
Street           Location         Restrictions    Ord. No.         Date Passed
                 North side
                 between          No parking here
Bayberry Place   Cottonwood Road  to corner       95, Series 1975  - -
                 and Club
                 entrance
                 North side of
Bayberry Place   the street from                 105, Series 1976 10- -1976
                 Cottonwood Drive
                 to Hermitage Way
Bayou Way                        Parking south   98, Series 1975  7-21-1975
                                  side only
                 South side at    No parking
Blossom Lane     the end of       between signs   95, Series 1975  - -
                 Colonel Drive
Blossom Lane     Colonel Drive    No parking here 95, Series 1975  - -
                 westbound        to corner
Blossom Lane                     Parking south   98, Series 1975  7-21-1975
                                  side only
                 Blossom Lane     No parking here
Colonel Drive    northbound and   to corner       95, Series 1975  - -
                 southbound
Colonel Drive                    Parking west    98, Series 1975  7-21-1975
                                  side only
Cottonwood Drive Blossom Lane     No parking here 95, Series 1975  - -
                 northbound       to corner
Cottonwood Drive                 Parking west    98, Series 1975  7-21-1975
                                  side only
                 North and south
                 lanes from       No parking here
Hermitage Way    Malvern Hill     to corner       95, Series 1975  - -
                 Road to Westport
                 Road
Hermitage Way                    Parking west    98, Series 1975  7-21-1975
                                  side only
Malvern Hill                     Parking north   98, Series 1975  7-21-1975
Road                              side only
Malvern Hill     Hermitage Way    No parking here 95, Series 1975  - -
Road             westbound        to corner
Para Court                       Parking north   113, Series 1978 4-17-1978
                                  side only
Rhett Butler                     Parking north   113, Series 1978 4-17-1978
Drive                             side only
Rhett Court                      Parking east    113, Series 1978 4-17-1978
                                  side only
Saberdee Drive                   Parking north   113, Series 1978 4-17-1978
                                  side only
Saurel Drive                     Parking north   113, Series 1978 4-17-1978
                                  side only
Savannah Road                    Parking west    98, Series 1975  7-21-1975
                                  side only
Stonehurst Drive                 Parking west    98, Series 1975  7-21-1975
                                  side only
Turnside Drive                   Parking north   113, Series 1978 4-17-1978
                                  side only
 
SCHEDULE II.  SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES
   (A)   There shall be no parking on the following streets during a declared
snow emergency.
 
Street        Ord. No.            Passed
Hermitage Way 9, Series 2009-2010 6-17-2010
Blossom Lane  9, Series 2009-2010 6-17-2010
Bayberry      9, Series 2009-2010 6-17-2010
Colonel Drive 9, Series 2009-2010 6-17-2010
 
   (B)   Penalty.  Vehicles found parked on snow emergency designated streets
during a declared snow emergency are subject to being towed at owner's expense
and/or incur a $50 fine payable to the city.
(Ord. 9, Series 2009-2010, passed 6-17-2010)
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   LITTERING
      
95.   TEMPORARY STORAGE UNITS AND DUMPSTERS
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.04   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.05   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.06   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
Dogs
   
90.15   Definition
   
90.16   License required
   
90.17   Registration and issuance of license
   
90.18   License tag to be attached to dog
   
90.19   Dogs running at large
   
90.20   Noise disturbance
   
90.21   Impoundment
   
90.22   Reclaiming impounded dog
   
90.23   Vicious animals prohibited; definitions
   
90.24   Complaints against vicious animals
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON.  Shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and claims by
the owner to the animal.
(KRS 257.100(4))
   AT LARGE.  Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain or otherwise.
   OWNER.  Every person having a right of property to an animal and every
person who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care, or permits it
to remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
§ 90.02  ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane or alley, or upon or enclosure
without the consent of the owner of the yard, lot or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by such animal upon the premises
of another.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03  CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when
except as authorized by law he or she intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in §
90.03 in causing it to fight for pleasure or profit, (including, but not
limited to being a spectator or vendor at an event where a 4-legged animal is
caused to fight for pleasure or profit) mutilation, beating, torturing any
animal other than a dog or cat, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food,
drink, space or health care, or by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his or her custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This section shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including but not
limited to horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows, or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with U.S. Department of Agriculture
under the Animal Welfare Act or subject to other federal laws governing animal
research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
(KRS 525.130)  Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 90.04  DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits, under 2 months of age in any
quantity less than 6, except that any rabbit weighing 3 pounds or more may be
sold at an age of 6 weeks.
(KRS 436.600)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05  ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06  DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, animal control officer, or any person authorized by
the Board may destroy or kill or cause to be destroyed or killed, any animal
found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or appearing to be
injured, diseased or suffering past recovery for any useful purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian, or of 2 reputable citizens called by him or her
to view the animal in his or her presence, or shall obtain consent to the
destruction from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or his
or her agent for a period of more than 10 days after written notice by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or
his or her agent at his or her last known address, shall be deemed to be
abandoned and may be turned over to the nearest humane society or animal
shelter or disposed of as such custodian may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed veterinarian shall relieve the licensed veterinarian and
any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
(KRS 257.100)
DOGS
§ 90.15  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOG.  Any member of the canine family, 6 months of age or over, male or
female.
§ 90.16  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep a dog or dogs in the city
without first obtaining a license for each dog.  This section and §
90.17 shall not apply to dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within
the city for a period less than 30 days.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17  REGISTRATION AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All dogs kept in the city shall be registered as to sex, breed, name
and address of the owner, and name of the dog.  At the time of the registration
the owner shall obtain a license tag for the dog and shall pay a fee as
established by City Council for each dog.
   (B)   The license tag shall be valid for 1 year from the date of issue.  A
new tag shall be obtained each year by every owner and a new fee paid.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18  LICENSE TAG TO BE ATTACHED TO DOG.
   The license tag shall be fastened to the collar of the dog and shall be worn
continuously, and the failure to have the tag so attached shall subject the
owner or keeper thereof to the penalties provided herein.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19  DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog, either licensed or
unlicensed, regardless of the age of the dog, to allow the dog to be at large
and unattended or to run in any street, park, lawn, garden, schoolyard,
playground or on any other public or private property.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.20  NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the city which, by frequent
and habitual barking, howling or yelping, creates unreasonably loud and
disturbing noises of such a character, intensity and duration as to disturb the
peace, quiet and good order of 1 or more of the inhabitants of two or more
separate residences. Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to remain,
be lodged or fed within any dwelling, yard or enclosure which he or she
occupies or owns shall be considered as harboring the dog.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21  IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every police officer, peace officer or other authorized official shall have
the authority to apprehend any dog running at large in violation of this
chapter and any unlicensed dog in the city, and to impound the dog or have the
dog impounded in the appropriate place.
§ 90.22  RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED DOG.
   The owner of any dog so impounded may reclaim the dog upon the payment of
all appropriate fees and after fulfilling any and all other requirements.
§ 90.23  VICIOUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED; DEFINITIONS.
   Vicious animals are hereby prohibited within the city accordance with the
following definitions:
   (A)   Any animal which has inflicted severe injury on a person or other
animal without provocation on public or private property;
   (B)   Any animal which killed a domestic animal without provocation while
off the owner's property;
   (C)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
fighting or any animal trained for the purpose of fighting;
   (D)   Any animal that has bitten or attacked any person, or any animal that
has attempted to bite or attack any person. This division shall not apply if
the person/animal is bitten or attacked while illegally on the owner's
property;
   (E)   Any animal that has, without provocation, chased, confronted or
approached a person on a street, sidewalk, or other public property in menacing
fashion such as would put an average person in fear of attack;
   (F)   Any animal that has exhibited a propensity, tendency or disposition to
attack, cause injury or threaten the safety of person or other animals without
provocation; or
   (G)   Any animal that has acted in a manner that causes or should cause its
owner to know it is potentially vicious.
(Ord. 3, Series 2006-2007, passed 11-9-2006)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24  COMPLAINTS AGAINST VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any person who has been attacked by an animal, may make a complaint
before the District Court, charging the owner, or keeper of such an animal, or
parents, legal guardian or custodian of a minor owner with harboring of a
vicious animal. A copy of such complaint shall be served upon the animal's
owner or keeper or upon the parents, legal guardian or custodian if they
animal's owner or keeper is a minor, subject to the laws regulating the service
of summons in civil actions directing him or her to appear for a hearing.
   (B)   Upon the filing of a complaint and service of the complaint upon the
proper person, the owner or keeper shall keep the dog securely confined within
an enclosed structure. If the accused animal is found outside the enclosed
structure, the animal shall be seized and impounded in a kennel or animal
shelter at the owner's expense until the hearing.
   (C)   Upon a hearing of the parties and their witnesses, if the court finds
the animal to be a vicious animal, the Court shall declare the animal to be a
vicious animal. Upon the Court's declaration, the animal shall be humanely
destroyed or removed from within the corporate limits of the city. No animal
may be destroyed under this section while any appeal is pending pertaining to
the declaration that the animal is a vicious animal.
   (D)   Enforcement authorization. The City authorizes Metro Louisville Animal
Control to seize, impound, or otherwise enforce this section concerning any dog
within the city which does or does not bear a proper license tag or other tag
or other legible identification which is found running at large and shall
enforce all other provisions of the ordinance and of KRS Chapter 258.
(Ord. 3, Series 2006-2007, passed 11-9-2006)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)    Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense.  Each day
the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates §
90.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500,
imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both for each offense.
      (2)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to an offense under §
90.03(A) arising from the person’s treatment of an equine, the court may impose
one or both of the following penalties against the person, in addition to fines
and imprisonment:
         (a)   An order that the person pay restitution for damage to the
property of others and for costs incurred by others, including reasonable
costs, as determined by agreement or by the court after a hearing, incurred in
feeding, sheltering, veterinary treatment, and incidental care of any equine
that was the subject of the offense resulting in conviction; or
         (b)   An order terminating or imposing conditions on the person's
right to possession, title, custody, or care of any equine that was the subject
of the offense resulting in conviction. If a person’s ownership interest in an
equine is terminated by a judicial order under division (B)(2)(b) of this
section, the court may order the sale, conveyance, or other disposition of the
equine that was the subject of the offense resulting in conviction.
(KRS 525.130)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
90.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500.
(KRS 436.600)
CHAPTER 91:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
91.01   Opening permit required
   
91.02   Application and cash deposit
   
91.03   Restoration of pavement
   
91.04   Barriers around excavations
   
91.05   Warning lights
   
91.06   Sidewalk construction
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.15   Public hearing required
   
91.16   Notice requirements
   
91.17   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
91.18   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
91.19   Separate hearing for each project not required
   
91.20   Exemptions from hearing requirement
Obstructions
   
91.30   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.31   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.32   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.33   Removal of ice and snow
   
91.34   Garbage cans and recycling bins
 
   
91.99   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.01  OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02  APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized city official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the legislative body, giving the exact location of the
proposed opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated, and
such other facts as may be provided for.  The permit shall be issued only after
a cash deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with
the authorized city official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory
refilling of excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 91.03  RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized city
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations and specifications approved
by the legislative body.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make the fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
91.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate city fund, except the part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration
services performed by it.  If the amount of the services performed by the city
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
§ 91.04  BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05  WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least 2 illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously posted
on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the space
involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least 1 additional lamp for each added
50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06  SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the authorized city official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city.
   (B)   He or she shall cause specifications to be prepared for the
construction of the various kinds of pavements and transmit the specifications
to the legislative body for approval.
   (C)   When the specifications are approved, the legislative body shall
advertise for proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the city in
construction and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the Mayor to contract
therefor, for a period not exceeding 1 year, with the lowest responsible
bidder, who shall for the faithful performance of the work.
   (D)   The Mayor, if authorized by City Council, may make separate contracts
for the different kinds of work with different parties.
Statutory reference:
   Sidewalks; construction along public roads; specifications, see KRS 178.290
   Sidewalks; ramps for wheelchairs, see KRS 66.660
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.15  PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street or bridge it shall hold a hearing in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter to take the sense of the public with regard to
the project and to priorities for use of tax moneys for road and bridge
purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 91.16  NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state derived tax
revenues on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall hold a public hearing
for the purpose of taking the sense of the public with regard to road and
bridge matters within the city.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing shall be given not less than 7 days nor more
than 21 days before the scheduled date of the public hearing and before
beginning work on any project covered by this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(1))
§ 91.17  PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   (A)   At the hearing, any person may speak with regard to any proposed
project, any project which he or she feels should be built or done which has
not been proposed, priorities for completion of projects and any other matter
related to road or bridge projects.
   (B)   The city shall not be bound by the testimony heard at the hearing but
shall give due consideration to it.
(KRS 174.100(2), (3))
§ 91.18  HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state derived tax revenues are involved until the hearing as provided herein
has been held.
(KRS 174.100(4))
§ 91.19  SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   (A)   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate hearing
for each project.
   (B)   A single hearing encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
hearing, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(5))
§ 91.20  EXEMPTIONS FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair
or replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or man-caused
disasters nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to projects which
are under construction as of the effective date of this subchapter unless
construction is suspended after the effective date of this subchapter and the
city desires to reactivate the project.
(KRS 174.100(6), (7))
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.30  UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31  STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon.  Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32  MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk.
   (B)   No owner, occupant or person having the care of any building or lot of
land, bordering on any street or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered
with barrels, boxes, cans, articles or substances of any kind, so as to
interfere with the free and unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see
Ch. 94
§ 91.33  REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his or her premises free and clear of snow and ice to the
extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove
therefrom all snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather
conditions, a reasonable time which will ordinarily not exceed 12 hours after
the abatement of any storm during which the snow and ice may have accumulated.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.34  GARBAGE CANS AND RECYCLING BINS.
   No resident may set out a garbage, recycling or yard waste container for
collection prior to noon on the day before a regular or special scheduled
collection date. In addition, no resident shall be allowed to set out for
collection waste products which were not generated at the residence. Empty
garbage and recycling containers must be moved from the curb by 8:00 a.m. the
day after collection. Any items not covered by the regular pickup shall be the
responsibility of the resident to request, from the carrier, a special pickup
and pay if there are any additional charges for the pickup.
(Ord. 4, Series 2011-2012, passed 6-23-2011)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon
conviction, be fined not more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of §
91.34 shall be fined $10 per occurrence. (Ord. 4, Series 2011-2012, passed 6-
23-2011)
CHAPTER 92:  NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Trees, shrubs and other growth
   
92.02   Maintenance of property
   
92.03   Damage or destruction of public property
Nuisances
   
92.15   Definitions
   
92.16   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.17   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
92.18   Abatement procedure
   
92.19   Nuisance created by others
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01  TREES, SHRUBS AND OTHER GROWTH.
   (A)   It is to the interest of the city to look after the welfare of the
citizenry as well as their safety.
   (B)   It is to the interest of the city to enact the necessary legislation
to prevent any accident by eliminating hazardous conditions.
   (C)   All trees and shrubs should be trimmed in such a manner as to prevent
accidents by the people making use of the sidewalk.
   (D)   Trees and shrubs should be trimmed if extending over the street in an
effort to prevent accidents by the public making use of the street.
   (E)   Any trees or shrubs near an intersection that obscures vision by a
motorist must be trimmed.
   (F)   Any tree or shrubs within the dedicated right-of-way must have dead
limbs removed.
   (G)   Any tree or shrub within the dedicated right-of-way or abutting the
right-of-way that has died must be removed at the expense of the abutting
property owner.
   (H)   Should any abutting property owner fail to comply in correcting a
situation, wherein the property owner has been advised, will be given 3 weeks
to correct the condition unless additional time is granted by the City Engineer
or other city official designated.
   (I)   If a property owner fails to comply with a reasonable request to
correct a bad condition, the city will advise property owner the city will have
the condition corrected and bill the property owner for actual cost.
   (J)   This section takes effect upon its passage and approval and
publication thereof.
(Ord. 91, Series 1974, passed 8-19-1974)
§ 92.02  MAINTENANCE OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   The owners or those leasing property shall keep the grass on all
subdivision lots within the city cut to a height of no more than 6 inches.
   (B)   The owners of all undeveloped and unsubdivided property within the
city shall cut the grass on the property at least 4 times, evenly spaced,
throughout the grass growing season.
   (C)   The owners or those leasing property within Plantation shall keep the
property free of unnecessary debris.
   (D)   When the above conditions are not met, the owner will be given notice
and the owner will have 10 days in which to comply with this section.
   (E)   This section takes effect upon its passage, approval and publication.
(Ord. 104, Series 1976, passed 7-19-1976)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03  DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any person who damages or causes to be damaged any public property
within the city shall be charged with a misdemeanor.
   (B)   This section takes effect upon its passage and approval and
publication thereof.
(Ord. 76, Series 1976, passed 3-16-1970)  Penalty, see §
92.99
NUISANCES
§ 92.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLIANCE.  Items such as stoves, refrigerators, freezers, washing machines,
dryers, dishwashers and water heaters.
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS.  Any portion or parts of any motor driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   HOUSEHOLD ITEMS.  Boxes, bags (plastic, paper and the like), paper,
television sets, furniture, toys, clothing and other items not intended for
display or storage in an outdoor environment.
   INOPERATIVE CONDITION.  Unable to move under its own power due to defective
or missing parts, and which has remained in such condition for a period of not
less than 10 consecutive days. OPERATIVE CONDITION shall mean a licensable
vehicle which has a current, valid license and is in self-propelled condition;
and other farm or construction equipment which is fully assembled and which is
capable of its intended operation
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Any style or type of motor driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   OWNER.  Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others:
      (1)   Shall have legal title to any land or improvements thereon; and
      (2)   Shall have charge, care or control of any dwelling unit as owners,
or as executor, executrix, administrator, administratrix, trustee or guardian
of the estate of any owner. Any such person thus representing the actual owner
shall be bound to comply with the provisions of these rules and regulations
upon the owner.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE.  Any act, thing, occupation, condition or use of property
that shall continue for such a length of time as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure or endanger the comfort, health, repose
or safety of the public;
      (2)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or tend to
obstruct or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
stream, ditch or drainage; or
      (3)   Essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property or tend to depreciate the value of property of others.
   SCRAP METAL.  Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum or
any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE.  In a dangerous condition; having defective or
missing parts; or in such a condition generally as to be unfit for further use
as a conveyance.
(Ord. 3, Series 2003-2004, passed 10-9-2003)
§ 92.16  COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this subchapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of Kentucky as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided
in this subchapter or in accordance with any other provision of law.
(Ord. 3, Series 2003-2004, passed 10-9-2003)
§ 92.17  CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or person having control
or management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance to
develop thereon.
   (B)   The following conditions are declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   Environmental nuisance.
         (a)   The outdoor storage or display of appliances and household
items;
         (b)   Any tree, stack, or other object standing in such a condition
that it is likely to, if the condition is allowed to continue, endanger the
life, limb or property of, or cause hurt, damage, or injury to persons or
property by the falling thereof or of parts thereof;
         (c)   An accumulation on any premises of filth, refuse, trash, garbage
or other waste material which endangers the public health, welfare or safety,
or materially interferes with the peaceful enjoyment by owners or occupants of
adjacent property because of the danger that it will catch or communicate fire,
attract and propagate vermin, rodents or insects, or blow rubbish into any
street, sidewalk or property of another;
         (d)   Any grass growth exceeding 6 inches in height, excessive
accumulations of grass, weeds, rubbish, leaves, dead trees, flowers, bushes or
other ornamental plants; and
         (e)   Disposal or accumulation of any foul, decaying, or putrescent
substances or other offensive materials in or on any lot, tract of land,
street, highway or any sidewalk or alley abutting any of these which shall be
reason of such offensive odor.
      (2)   Health hazard. Any accumulation of rubbish, plant material, scrap
metal, car parts, appliances or any other material which attracts vermin,
rodents or insects, or is otherwise injurious to the public health.
      (3)   Interference with use of others. Any condition that materially
interferes with the peaceful enjoyment by owners/occupants of adjacent
property.
      (4)   Storage of explosives.  The storage of explosive material that
creates a safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity.
      (5)   Open wells.  The maintenance of any open, uncovered, or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation or vault situated upon private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place.
      (6)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets, sidewalks and drainage.
The growing and maintenance of trees or shrubbery that in any way interferes
with the use, construction or maintenance of streets or sidewalks, causes
injury to streets or sidewalks or constitutes an obstruction to drainage.
      (7)   Keeping of animals. The failure to keep sanitary conditions and
free from preventable offensive odors.
      (8)   Junk; scrap metal; motor vehicles. The storage of motor vehicles in
an inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for further use, automobile
parts or scrap metal within the city limits except on premises authorized by
the city for such purposes.
(Ord. 3, Series 2003-2004, passed 10-9-2003)
§ 92.18  ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or person having control
or management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance, health
hazard or source of filth to develop thereon.
   (B)   Whenever a nuisance situation is discovered, the authorized city
official shall provide notice to the owner and/or occupant, and/or person
having control notice to remedy the nuisance situation. The notice shall be
mailed to the last known address of the owner of property, as it appears on the
current tax assessment roll.  Upon the failure of the owner of the property to
comply, the authorized city official is authorized to send employees upon the
property to remedy the situation.
   (C)   The city shall have a lien against the property for the reasonable
value of labor and materials used in remedying the nuisance situation. The
affidavit of the authorized city official shall constitute prima facie evidence
of the amount of the lien and the regularity of the proceedings pursuant to KRS
381.770 and this section, and shall be recorded in the office of the County
Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording
and shall bear interest at the rate established by the city thereafter until
paid.  The lien created shall take precedence over all other subsequent liens,
except state, county, school board and city taxes, and may be enforced by
judicial proceeding. In addition to this remedy or other remedy authorized by
law, the owner of a property upon which a lien has been attached pursuant to
this section shall be personally liable for the amount of the lien, including
all interest, civil penalties and other charges and the city may bring a civil
action against the owner and shall have the same remedies as provided for the
recovery of a debt owed.
(Ord. 3, Series 2003-2004, passed 10-9-2003)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.19  NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care ought to have become aware of:
   (A)   Whenever it is shown that a nuisance is associated with or caused by
the conduct of a business or activity licensed by the city and that the
existence of the nuisance presents an immediate threat to the public health,
safety or welfare, the City Council may suspend the license of the person or
persons conducting the business or activity.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall cause a notice of the suspension to be served
personally upon the licensee, or upon any responsible agent of the licensee, at
the premises where the licensed business or activity is being conducted. The
notice shall clearly inform the licensee of the reason for the suspension, and
the conditions that must be met for the suspension to be removed.
   (C)   Upon application of the licensee, and upon a showing that the nuisance
has been satisfactorily abated and that any other reasonable conditions set
forth in the notice have been met, the City Council may remove the suspension.
(Ord. 3, Series 2003-2004, passed 10-9-2003)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Upon expiration of 10 days and the owners failure to comply with §
92.02, a fine of not less than $10 and no more than $100 will be imposed and
the city can proceed to mow the lot and the cost of mowing will be added to the
fine.  The fine and costs incurred will become a lien upon the property.
(Ord. 104, Series 1976, passed 7-19-1976)
   (C)   Any person charged with offense of destroying or damaging public
property, as detailed in §
92.03, if found guilty shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $100 for
each offense.
(Ord. 76, Series 1976, passed 3-16-1970)
   (D)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
92.15et seq. shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than
$500 for each offense.  Each day’s continued violation shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 3, Series 2003-2004, passed 10-9-2003)
CHAPTER 93:  FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
93.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
93.03   Consumer fireworks; restrictions on sale
   
93.04   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
93.05   Exempted sales and uses
   
93.06   Destruction of fireworks
Fire Prevention
   
93.20   Blasting permit
   
93.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
Hazardous Substances and Materials
   
93.35   Adoption of Kentucky Standards of Safety (Fire Prevention Code)
   
93.36   Designated enforcement officer
   
93.37   Permits, inspections and fees
   
93.38   Appeal process
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01  DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   As used in this subchapter, FIREWORKS means any composition or device
for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by combustion,
deflagration, or detonation, and which meets the definition of "consumer"
fireworks as defined in division (B) or "display" fireworks as defined in
division (D) and as set forth in the U.S. Department of Transportation's (DOT)
hazardous materials regulations. FIREWORKS does not include:
      (1)   Exception number 1:  Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to said regulations, are not
considered to be fireworks and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times.
      (2)   Exception number 2:  Model rockets and model rocket motors
designed, sold and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models
are not considered to be fireworks.
      (3)   Exception number 3:  Propelling or expelling charges consisting of
a mixture of sulfur, charcoal and saltpeter are not considered as being
designed for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   As used in this subchapter, CONSUMER FIREWORKS means fireworks that
are suitable for use by the public, designed primarily to produce visible
effects by combustion, and comply with the construction, chemical composition,
and labeling regulations of the United States Consumer Product Safety
Commission. The types, sizes, and amount of pyrotechnic contents of these
devices are limited as enumerated in this section. Some small devices designed
to produce audible effects are included, such as whistling devices, ground
devices containing 50 mg. or less of explosive composition, and aerial devices
containing 130 mg. or less of explosive composition. Consumer fireworks are
further defined by the Consumer Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R.
Pts 1500 and 1507, are classified as Division 1.4G explosives by the United
States Department of Transportation, and include the following:
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. These devices consist of
a metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition.
Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is produced.
Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed 5
grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which contain no
magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are not
included in this category, in accordance with DOT regulations;
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
75 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of colored sparks,
and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This device may be
provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or
plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard
handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than 1 tube is
mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200
grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a
distance of at least 1/2 inch;
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to 50
grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain. When more than 1 cone is mounted on a common base, the
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least 1/
2 inch;
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is produced. May be
spike, base or hand-held. When more than 1 tube is mounted on a common base,
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least 1/
2 inch;
         (e)   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or
string. A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel may contain more than
200 grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the wheel revolves,
producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling effect;
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is produced by
the rapidly spinning device;
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at 1 end of the tube is
ignited to make the device function; and
         (h)   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces
white or colored smoke as the primary effect;
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wooden
stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst
of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight;
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability;
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached, which, upon
ignition, lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible
effect is produced at the height of flight;
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to 20
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to 10 "stars" (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several second intervals;
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, "stars," components producing reports containing
up to 130 milligrams of explosive composition per report, or other devices are
propelled into the air. The term "mine" refers to a device with no internal
components containing a bursting charge, and the term "shell" refers to a
device that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in the air. A
mine or shell device may contain more than 1 tube provided the tubes fire in
sequence upon ignition of 1 external fuse. The term "cake" refers to a dense-
packed collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical composition including
lift charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed 200 grams. The maximum
quantity of lift charge in any 1 tube of a mine or shell device shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting charge in any
component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in
the component. The tube remains on the ground; and
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE), or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed 1-3/4 inches. In addition, the maximum quantity of lift charge in any
shell shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting
charge in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical
composition in the shell. The total chemical composition of all the shells in a
kit, including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams. The user lowers a shell
into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fuse extending out of
the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then reloaded with another
shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be capable of firing twice
the number of shells in the kit without failure of the tube. Each package of
multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning label requirements of
the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 mg. of pyrotechnic composition. Those used in
aerial devices may contain not more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced;
and
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50 mg.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed in this section are classified as novelties and trick
noisemakers and are not classified as consumer fireworks by the United States
Department of Transportation, and their transportation, storage, retail sale,
possession, sale, and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times.
      (1)   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as the
pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2)   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (3)   Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Devices containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams
of pyrotechnic composition per item.
      (4)   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include:
         (a)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than 16 mg. of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A string
protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper streamers
and producing a small report.
         (b)   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
         (c)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes producing a small report.
         (d)   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
         (e)   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing 1 of the pegs, a small report is produced.
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 mg. may also be used to produce a small report.
A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   As used in this subchapter, DISPLAY FIREWORKS means pyrotechnic
devices or large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or audible
effects by combustion, deflagration or detonation. This term includes, but is
not limited to, firecrackers containing more than 2 grains (130 mg) of
explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than 40 grams of
pyrotechnic composition, and other display pieces which exceed the limits for
classification as "consumer fireworks." Display fireworks are defined by the
Consumer Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. Pts. 1500 and 1507, and
are classified as Class B explosives by the United States Department of
Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   (1)   Items described in division (B) are legal for retail sale
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
      (2)   Items described in division (D) are not legal for retail sale but
are legal under permits granted pursuant to §
93.02 for the purposes specified in this chapter for public displays and may be
sold at wholesale as provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) are legal for retail sale provided
all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are met.
(KRS 227.708)
§ 93.02  SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, co-partnership or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, keep with intent to sell, possess, use or explode,
any display fireworks, except for the following:
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department or other authorized city
official may grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the
city, fair associations, amusement parks and other organizations or groups of
individuals. 
      (2)   Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator to
be approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be
of such character, and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or endanger
any person. 
      (3)   "Competent display operator" shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks display. The
competent display operator shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives (ATF) License and have participated as an assistant in firing at
least 5 public displays. A "competent display operator" is also an employee
possessor. A permit under division (A)(1) of this section shall be issued only
to a competent display operator holding an ATF license.
      (4)   At least 1 competent display operator shall be on site during
display set-up and firing. This competent display operator shall maintain a
copy of the permit application, as signed by the local authority having
jurisdiction as identified in this section, on site and at all times the
display is in place, and shall be presented on demand of the State Fire Marshal
or local Fire Chief. All public displays that require issuance of a permit
shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of National Fire
Protection Association (NFPA) 1123 – Code for Fireworks Display (adopted
edition).
      (5)   Permits shall be filed with the State Fire Marshal at least 15 days
in advance of the date of the display.  After the privilege is granted, sales,
possession, use and distribution of fireworks for the display shall be lawful
for that purpose only.  No permit granted under this division shall be
transferable. For the purpose of this section, “public display of fireworks”
shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or pyrotechnic materials before a
proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors.
      (6)   Any person remaining within the display area shall be identified as
licensed by the ATF, or an employee thereof, or be an assistant in training to
become a competent display operator. All persons remaining within the display
area shall be at least 18 years of age.
      (7)   The Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction with recommendation from the State Fire Marshal shall promulgate
administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A to administer the
provisions of this section. The regulations shall address the process by which
permits are issued and any other procedures that are reasonably necessary to
effectuate this section.
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms
and Explosives, if the sale is to the person holding a display permit as
outlined in division (A) of this section. The permit holder shall present the
permit along with other verifiable identification at the time of sale.
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.
   (D)   The sale and use in emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation and highway use.
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads.
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports.
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations.
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency.
(KRS 227.710)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03  CONSUMER FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS ON SALE.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
93.02, the consumer fireworks described in §
93.01(B)(1) may be offered for sale, sold at retail, or kept with the intent to
sell, only if the requirements of this section are met.
   (B)   Any person or business intending to sell consumer fireworks shall
register annually with the State Fire Marshal in accordance with KRS 227.715,
and display its registration certificate in a conspicuous location at the site.
   (C)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall comply with
all applicable provisions of the International Building Code, with Kentucky
Amendments (adopted edition), and NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection
Association) – Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, Storage, and Retail
Sales of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles (adopted edition);
   (D)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or sell any consumer
fireworks listed in §
93.01(B) to any person under 18 years of age.
(KRS 227.715(6) - (8)) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04  BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
93.02 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than $1,000,000.  However, the appropriate city official or the
state’s Fire Marshal may require a larger amount if in their judgment the
situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of all damages which may be
caused thereby either to a person or to property by reason of the permitted
display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his or her agents,
employees or subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05  EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry, or
gold star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate, toy
snakes which contain no mercury, smoke novelties and party novelties, which
contain less than twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture, or
shells or cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms, or blank cartridges for a
show or theater, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports,
or for use by military organizations, or the sale of any kind of fireworks
provided the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730)
§ 93.06  DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the State Fire Marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter. After a period of 60 days,
the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of 60 days, the seized fireworks may be offered for
sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor, or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or "Display"
designation shall require the notification of the United States Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. The State Fire Marshal shall provide the owner
or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of any fireworks
seized within 5 business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the State Fire
Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the State Fire Marshal's intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire Marshal's
intent. The State Fire Marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the State Fire Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal's intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for 3
consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks within 10
days of the date of the last publication, the State Fire Marshal may proceed
with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the fireworks within 10
days of the date of the last publication, a hearing as set out in division (C)
(1) of this section shall be held.
      (3)   Nothing in this subchapter shall restrict a local government from
enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks within their
jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.20  BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the authorized city
official.  The authorized city official, before granting such permit may
require the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify the city and all other
persons against injury or damages which might result from the proposed
blasting.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21  STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior or any material of
a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any other
portion of any building of any kind.  Proper fireproof receptacles shall be
provided for such hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
Penalty, see §
93.99
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND MATERIALS
§ 93.35  ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY STANDARDS OF SAFETY (FIRE PREVENTION CODE).
   The Kentucky Standards of Safety (Fire Prevention Code) as promulgated in
815 KAR 10:060 (and any further amendments thereto) by the Commissioner of the
Department of Housing, Building and Construction on the advice and
recommendation at the State Fire Marshal, is hereby adopted in full by the City
of Plantation, Jefferson County, of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.  Copies of
the code book are available through the Department of Housing, Building and
Construction, 1047 U.S. 127 South, Frankfort, Kentucky 40601.
(Ord. 7, Series 2003-2004, passed 3-11-2004; Am. Ord. 5, Series 2011-2012,
passed 11-23-2011; Am. Ord. 5, Series 2013, passed 3-26-2013)
§ 93.36  DESIGNATED ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Chief of the Lyndon Fire Protection District or the Fire Chief’s
designated representative is the local enforcement agent for the Standards of
Safety, as adopted by the city.
(Ord. 7, Series 2003-2004, passed 3-11-2004; Am. Ord. 5, Series 2011-2012,
passed 11-23-2011; Am. Ord. 5, Series 2013, passed 3-26-2013)
§ 93.37  PERMITS, INSPECTIONS AND FEES.
   The requirements for annual permits, inspections and required fees shall be
as provided for pursuant to 815 KAR 10:060, Kentucky Standards of Safety and
stipulated in the schedule attached to Ord. 5, Series 2013, passed March 26,
2013. Failure to pay fees as provided shall be considered a violation in itself
as allowed under the Standards of Safety. Municipal, state and federal
government entities shall be exempt for all fees. Inspections shall be
conducted at least annually or as often as is practicable. An inspection permit
will be issued upon compliance. Inspection permits shall not be transferable
and shall be valid for a period of time set forth on the permit. The business
occupying a space shall be responsible for complying with this subchapter and
regulations and fees established in this subchapter.
(Ord. 7, Series 2003-2004, passed 3-11-2004; Am. Ord. 5, Series 2011-2012,
passed 11-23-2011; Am. Ord. 5, Series 2013, passed 3-26-2013)
§ 93.38  APPEALS PROCESS.
   All final decisions of the fire code official having jurisdiction shall be
appealable to a local court of competent jurisdiction within 30 days
thereafter.
(Ord. 7, Series 2003-2004, passed 3-11-2004; Am. Ord. 5, Series 2011-2012,
passed 11-23-2011; Am. Ord. 5, Series 2013, passed 3-26-2013)
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.02 or
93.04, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both.
(KRS 227.990(4))
      (2)   Any person who violates any other provision of this chapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500.
   (B)   A violation of §§
93.35et seq. constitutes a Class B Misdemeanor carrying a penalty not to exceed
90 days imprisonment and/or $250 in fines. Each day shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 7, Series 2003-2004, passed 3-11-2004; Am. Ord. 5, Series 2011-2012,
passed 11-23-2011; Am. Ord. 5, Series 2013, passed 3-26-2013)
CHAPTER 94:  LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
94.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
94.03   Hauling loose material
   
94.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
94.05   Litter on private property
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01  THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02  TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley or other
public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of any
kind.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03  HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk
or other public place shall haul it, or cause it to be hauled in vehicles
provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of
the contents from falling or being thrown, blown or deposited upon any street,
alley, sidewalk or other public place.  Any materials which fall from, or which
are thrown, blown or deposited from any vehicle upon any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public place, shall be removed immediately by the person in
charge of the vehicle.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04  SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05  LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city whether owned by that person or not.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500.  Each day the violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 95: TEMPORARY STORAGE UNITS AND DUMPSTERS
Section:
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Regulations
   
95.03   Permit application process
   
95.04   Exceptions
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TEMPORARY STORAGE UNITS. An accessory structure that is intended for
temporary storage of personal property, construction/building materials, and
other items. These may include portable on demand storage (“PODS”) units,
modular units (“trailers”), and/or other vehicles used for this purpose.
   DUMPSTERS. A collection unit that is intended for the collection of
discarded materials such as construction debris, large quantities of yard
waste, and discarded personal property, not including any typical collection
containers provided by the preferred service of trash and yard waster disposal
services in the city. However, a dumpster that is provided by a commercial
service provider or the recurring collection of trash and waste that is not
emptied by the services provider at least monthly will be considered a
temporary storage unit per this chapter.
(Ord. 5, Series 2007-2008, passed 5-8-2008)
§ 95.02  REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Temporary storage units and dumpsters may be appropriately placed on
the owner's property for up to 14 calendar days without a permit.
   (B)   Temporary storage units and dumpsters that will be appropriately
placed on the owner's property for more that 14 calendar days will only be
allowed upon the issuance of a permit by the city. Permits shall be maintained
by the City Clerk.
   (C)   No temporary storage unit of dumpster will be set for more than 30
calendar days.
   (D)   The fee for a permit is $20.
   (E)   No temporary storage unit or dumpster may be used to store or dispose
of any hazardous material.
   (F)   No more than one temporary storage unit or dumpster may be placed on a
residential lot at one time. Commercially-zoned property will not have more
that two units at one time provided that they also meet the minimum
requirements of the General Development/Detailed Development Plan for the site,
any binding elements, and all current regulations of such items in the Metro
Louisville Zoning Regulations.
   (G)   On any site for which a building permit is to be issued by Metro
Government, the permit applications for temporary storage units and/or
dumpsters must be submitted to the city prior to the city issuing a letter of
compliance to Metro Government.
(Ord. 5, Series 2007-2008, passed 5-8-2008)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03  PERMIT APPLICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   Each permit application must be completed as soon as the property
owner foresees the need for the unit being on the property for more that 14
days. Failure to comply will cause a penalty to be assessed for each day the
property owner is in violation.
   (B)   The application will contain complete contact information for both the
owners of the property and the company from whom the unit is being rented.
   (C)   The application will require a drawing indicating where the unit will
be set. The unit must be set on a hard surface. No unit will be set on public
property (streets, easements, lots, and the like). Failure to comply will cause
a penalty to be assessed for each day the property owner is in violation.
(Ord. 5, Series 2007-2008, passed 5-8-2008)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04  EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Commercial, business, or multi-family zoned property that is provided
recurring waste disposal services through a commercial services provider is
exempted from this chapter as it relates to dumpsters as long as the dumpster
is emptied at least monthly. This exemption is utterly conditional on full
compliance with the General Development/Detailed Development Plan for the site,
all binding elements, and any current regulation of such items in the Metro
Louisville Zoning Regulations.
   (B)   Commercial, business, or multi-family zoned property that is provided
recurring waste disposal services through a commercial services provider that
is not emptied by the service provider at least monthly will be considered a
"temporary storage unit" per this chapter. All requirements of this chapter
apply except a special fee of $ 180 per year will be applicable and payable by
the property owner in January of each year.
   (C)   The Council shall be allowed to suspend the enforcement of this
chapter as to the city as a whole or specific areas of the city for a time
period appropriate for special circumstances (flood, fire, and the like).
   (D)   On any site for which a building permit is to be issued by Metro
Government, the permit application for temporary storage units and/or dumpers
must be submitted to the city prior to the city issuing a letter of compliance
to Metro Government. Upon receipt of a copy of the building permit by Metro
Government, the Mayor may extend the time that the units will be allowed to be
set on the site.
(Ord. 5, Series 2007-2008, passed 5-8-2008)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal.
      (1)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a violation and fined not less that $50 nor more than $100.
      (2)   Any continuing violation of this chapter shall be considered a
separate and distinct offense for each day on which the violation occurs or
continues and a separate penalty may be imposed therefore.
      (3)   Where the Kentucky Revised Statutes mandates a higher fine that
stipulated herein, the fine contained in the Kentucky Revised Statutes shall
prevail.
   (B)   Civil.
      (1)   Any person who shall cause a violation in the provisions of this
chapter shall be subject to a civil penalty in the amount of $50 for each
violation. A continuing violation shall be considered a separate and distinct
offense for each day on which the violation continues and a separate penalty
may be imposed therefore.
      (2)   The civil penalty provided herein may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender does not pay the penalty
within 20 days of the date of notice of violation. The civil penalty may be
used as an alternative or in conjunction with the criminal authorized herein.
(Ord. 5, Series 2007-2008, passed 5-8-2008)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   PAWNBROKERS
      
113.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
CHAPTER 110:  GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain trades, businesses, or
professions
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Standards; issuance of license
   
110.04   Date and duration of license
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.07   Revocation or suspension
   
110.08   Appeal and review
   
110.09   Exemptions
Business License Fees
   
110.20   Definitions
   
110.21   Purpose
   
110.22   Levy of license fees and taxes
   
110.23   Exempted activities
   
110.24   Filing returns
   
110.25   Consolidation
   
110.26   Certificates; license year
   
110.27   Temporary business
   
110.28   Separate licenses
   
110.29   Refunds
   
110.30   Schedule of fees
   
110.31   Administration
   
110.32   Maintaining records
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01  LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRADES, BUSINESSES, OR
PROFESSIONS.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses, or professions for
which licenses are required by any provision of this code or any other
ordinance of the city without first applying for and obtaining a license from
the City Clerk or other duly authorized issuing authority. The license shall be
accompanied with an application fee.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the City Clerk in writing upon forms to be furnished
by him or her and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and of each officer, partner, or business
associate;
      (2)   His or her present occupation and place of business;
      (3)   His or her place of residence for 5 years next preceding the date
of application;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   A description of the merchandise to be sold, if for a vendor; and
      (7)   Other information concerning the applicant and his or her business
as may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the license
desired.
   (B)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing upon the original application, unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful knowingly to make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03  STANDARDS; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a license, accompanied by the
proper fee, if approval by another officer or department is not required, the
City Clerk shall forthwith deposit the fee in the General Fund of the city and
issue to the applicant a proper license certificate signed by the City Clerk
and any other appropriate city official.  If for any reason the license is not
issued, the license fee shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (C)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. 
In particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done or possesses any
of the following will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an
application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character.
§ 110.04  DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein
specified and, unless otherwise provided, shall not extend beyond December 31
of the year issued.  However, at any time after December 14, licenses may be
issued for the ensuing calendar year.  Unless otherwise specified, the full
annual fee will be required of licensees irrespective of the date of issue of
the license.
   (B)   In no event shall a license be granted to any business or any person
for a longer time than 1 year. 
§ 110.05  LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business, and unless otherwise provided no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06  LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep posted,
in a prominent place upon the licensed premises, the license certificate. 
Other licensees shall carry their license certificates at all times and,
whenever requested by any officer or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07  REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license may be revoked by the City Council at any time for
conditions or considerations which, had they existed at the time of issuance,
would have been valid grounds for its denial; for any misrepresentation of a
material fact in the application discovered after issuance of the license; for
violation of any provision of this chapter or other law or ordinance relating
to the operation of the business or enterprise for which the license has been
issued; or upon conviction of a licensee for any federal, state, or municipal
law or ordinance involving moral turpitude.
   (B)   The revocation shall become effective upon notice served upon the
licensee or posted upon the premises affected.
   (C)   As a preliminary to revocation, the City Council may issue an order
suspending the license, which shall become effective immediately upon service
of written notice to the licensee.  This notice shall specify the reason for
suspension and may provide conditions under which reinstatement of the license
may be obtained.  Upon compliance with these conditions within the time
specified, the license may be restored.
§ 110.08  APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   In case any applicant has been denied a license, or if his or her license
has been revoked or suspended, the applicant or licensee, as the case may be,
shall within 3 business days have the right to appeal to the City Council from
the denial, revocation, or suspension.  Notice of appeal shall be filed in
writing with the City Clerk who shall fix the time and place for a hearing,
which shall be held not later than 1 week thereafter.  The City Clerk shall
notify the City Council of the time and place of the hearing not less than 24
hours in advance thereof.  A majority of the City Council members shall
constitute a quorum to hear the appeal.  The appellant may appear and be heard
in person or by counsel.  If, after hearing, a majority of the members of the
City Council present at the meeting declare in favor of the applicant, the
license shall be issued or fully reinstated as the case may be; otherwise the
order appealed from shall become final.
§ 110.09  EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any business, occupation,
or profession which is exempt from municipal licensing and/or license taxes
pursuant to state or federal law.
BUSINESS LICENSE FEES
§ 110.20  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. An enterprise, trade, activity, profession or undertaking of any
nature conducted by an individual, partnership, firm, joint venture,
association, corporation or any other entity, including the leasing out of real
property to others for the purpose of collecting rent, but shall not include
the usual activities of boards of trade, chambers of commerce, trade
associations or unions, community chest funds or foundations, corporations or
associations organized and operated exclusively for religious, charitable,
scientific, literary, educational or civic purposes, or for the prevention of
cruelty to children or animals, or clubs or fraternal organizations operated
exclusively for social, literary, educational or fraternal purposes, where no
part of the earnings or income or receipts for the units, groups or
associations inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
   PERSON. Any natural person, partnership, firm, joint venture, fiduciary,
association or corporation. Whenever PERSON is used in any clause prescribing
and imposing a penalty in the nature of a fine, the work, as applied to a
partnership or other form of unincorporated enterprise shall mean the partners
or members thereof and as applied to corporations, shall mean the officers and
directors thereof.
   RECEIPTS. Money or other property of value.
(Ord. 5, Series 9-8-2005; Am. Ord. 6, Series 2005-2006, passed 12-8-2005; Am.
Ord. 17-06, passed 3-22-2017)
§ 110.21  PURPOSE.
    Pursuant to KRS 92.330, the purpose of this chapter is to partially fund
the cost of government operations that are essential to the successful
operation of commercial enterprise in the city; including, but not limited to,
police protection, sanitation, public works, the maintenance and capital
improvement of the public infrastructure, which services are used daily by the
business community and its patrons. All revenue received from the payment of
license taxes and penalties required by this chapter shall be paid into and
become a part of the general fund of the city to be used for the general
operating expenses of the city, including police protection, sanitation, public
works and the maintenance and capital improvement of the public infrastructure,
which are used daily by the business community and its patrons.
(Ord. 5, Series 9-8-2005; Am. Ord. 6, Series 2005-2006, passed 12-8-2005; Am.
Ord. 17-06, passed 3-22-2017)
§ 110.22  LEVY OF LICENSE FEES AND TAXES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or engage in any
business or other activity for profit or gain or to sell or offer for sale any
article of goods, wears wares or merchandise within the city (unless exempted
as set out herein) until that person has paid the required business license fee
to the city clerk for the privilege of engaging in the activity and has
obtained the required license therefor.
   (B)   Where gross retail receipts are earned for work done or services
performed or rendered both within and without the city. The license fee shall
be measured by the part of the gross receipts as are earned as a result of work
done or services rendered or performed in the city, from January 1 of each year
through December 31 of each year. The license fee shall be computed by
obtaining the percentage which the compensation for work performed or services
rendered within the city bears to the total compensation earned. Those who
collect rent from property in the city shall pay a per unit fee, as set out in
this chapter. Within 30 days after the close of each fiscal year, the licensee
shall, on a form furnished by the City Clerk, file an accurate declaration of
the gross receipts for his or her business and at that time pay the difference,
if any, between the amount paid with his or her return which was filed the
preceding year.
(Ord. 5, Series 9-8-2005; Am. Ord. 6, Series 2005-2006, passed 12-8-2005) 
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.23  EXEMPTED ACTIVITIES.
   Any nonprofit, religious and charitable organization and agents thereof
shall be exempt from all provisions of this chapter, if the organization is
exempt from the payment of taxes pursuant to federal or state law. All HOME
BUSINESS as that term is defined and regulated in the Metro Louisville Zoning
regulations, as long as the HOME BUSINESS, is compliant with such regulations.
Owners of houses that do not live in them but who do not collect rent from
those houses are not subject to this tax, but must certify annually that they
have not collected rent. Rental houses sold during any given calendar year are
subject to a pro-rata reduction for the period of non-ownership during the
year, upon presentation of closing documents.
(Ord. 5, Series 9-8-2005; Am. Ord. 6, Series 2005-2006, passed 12-8-2005) 
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.24  FILING RETURNS.
   (A)   On or before April 15 of each year, each person subject to the payment
of a license fee or tax under this chapter shall make an annual report to the
city, on a form furnished by the City Clerk, showing that business's gross
receipts within the city during that business's preceding calendar year,
January 1 through December 31. That person shall state on the form the amount
of gross receipts in the city which the business reported to the federal
government on its income tax return for that preceding calendar year, January 1
through December 31. The report on the form shall be signed by that license, or
his or her agent, subject to penalties for perjury if the statements contained
therein are not true and correct. The amount of the license tax for the current
year shall be based on the gross receipts in that business's preceding business
year. The person making the return shall, at the time of the filing thereof,
pay to the city clerk the amount of the license fees shown as due thereon. No
partial payment shall be allowed or accepted.
   (B)   All license fees shall be due and payable on April 15 of each year.
Fees not paid by July 1 shall be delinquent and shall be increased by the
assessment of a 10% penalty and interest at 18% per annum. Notices of
delinquency shall be sent by August 1 and the following January 1 by the City
Clerk to any business whose license tax or fees have not been paid.
   (C)   The City Council shall have the authority to extend the time for
filing the return. The city will recognize any extension granted by the IRS,
upon presentation of that extension by to the city. The extension shall be on
the written request of the licensee. However, any balance unpaid when the
payment is due under the terms of this chapter, shall bear interest at the rate
of 18% per annum until paid. A late penalty of 1% per month, or fraction of
month, to a maximum penalty of 5% shall be assessed in connection with an
extension of time for filing against any license tax balance unpaid when
payment is due unless the extension of time for filing against any license tax
balance unpaid when payment is due unless the extension granted is for no more
than 30 days or unless the application for extension is accompanied by payment
of an estimated tax in an amount not less the 90% of the total tax as finally
determined.
   (D)   The information in returns subject to license taxes under this chapter
shall be confidential as respecting the business of any person and shall be
made available only to officers and employees of the city whose official duties
require the use of the information and on a confidential basis, to the
Secretary of the Kentucky Revenue Cabinet or to employees in his or her
department in reciprocation for access to the confidential files under his or
her supervision. The city may publish statistics based on information in the
returns in a manner as not to reveal data respecting the business of any
particular person.
   (E)   The entire gross receipts derived from business must be reported, for
the preceding calendar year, January l through December 31. If it is contended
that any portion of the receipts does not constitute receipts from business
within the meaning of this chapter or the tax payer hereunder questions the
taxability of any of the items reported, there shall be attached to the return
a detailed statement presenting a breakdown of the receipts, the source from
which they were derived and reasons supporting the contentions. If as a result
of an investigation conducted by the City Clerk, a return is found to be
incorrect, the City Clerk is authorized to assess and collect any underpayments
of the license fee with respect to net profits. If no return has been filed and
a license fee is found to be owing, the fee actually owing may be assessed and
collected with or without the formality of obtaining a delinquent return from
the licensee.
   (F)   The year of adoption of this chapter January l, 2005 through December
31, 2005 shall be treated differently for purposes of filing. For the year
2005, the annual report will be due April 15, 2005, taxing income earned
January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2005 No delinquency, as set out above,
shall be applied until June 1, 2005 After the year 2005, all reporting and
filing requirements will be as set out above.
(Ord. 5, Series 9-8-2005; Am. Ord. 6, Series 2005-2006, passed 12-8-2005) 
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.25  CONSOLIDATION.
   If a person liable for the tax hereunder during any year or portion of a
year acquired the assets or merges or consolidates his or her business with the
business of any other person or persons, the person liable for the tax shall
report the receipts for the year of the other person or persons together with
his or her own gross receipts during the year.
(Ord. 5, Series 9-8-2005; Am. Ord. 6, Series 2005-2006, passed 12-8-2005) 
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.26  CERTIFICATES; LICENSE YEAR.
   (A)   (1)   Every person desiring to obtain a city license shall apply for a
certificate therefor to the City Clerk. Pursuant to payment of the requisite
license fee, a license certificate shall be issued. The certificate shall be
evidence of the fact that the license tax has been fully paid. The license
certificate shall be void and of no effect without the signature of the City
Clerk. A license certificate shall be issued to each person paying a license
tax due under this chapter for a license year, or remaining portion of a
license year in the case of a new business. The certificate shall show the year
for which it is issued, the name of the person to whom issued, and the address
or location of the place of business being licensed.
      (2)   Any license or permit issued hereunder shall not be transferable to
any other party. Upon the sale, transfer or cessation of any business, any
permit or license which may have been issued previously for that business shall
be immediately null and void, all cost of which is to be considered fully
earned by the city and the license or permit expired.
      (3)   Every person licensed to conduct a business within the city shall
display the license in a conspicuous place where the licensed business is being
conducted or if the licensee is a transient or operates from place to place on
foot or by vehicle, then the licensee shall carry the certificate on his or her
person or display the certificate in the vehicle. Every person doing business
within the city shall produce the license for inspection whenever required to
do so by any officer of the city.
      (4)   The licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be
for the license year beginning on July 1 of each year and expiring on June 30
of the following year, except as expressly permitted otherwise in this chapter
for licensing by the day or week or for a new business.
   (B)   Any person holding himself or herself out by sign, advertisement or
other representation to be engaged in any business for which a license is
required hereunder shall be deemed actually engaged in
that business and shall be liable for the license fee therefor. Any local agent
or local proprietor of a nonresident owner of a business shall be liable for
the license fee levied upon the business as if he or she were the owner
thereof.
(Ord. 5, Series 9-8-2005; Am. Ord. 6, Series 2005-2006, passed 12-8-2005) 
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.27  TEMPORARY BUSINESS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, any business
entity desiring to utilize any structure or property within the city to conduct
business for a period of 14 days or less shall apply for a temporary business
license at a cost of $100, except as specifically provided in division (C)
below.
   (B)   In addition to the fee set forth in division (A), the temporary
business licensee shall deposit a $100 refundable fee to unsure cleanup of any
outside property. The deposit shall be refunded to the applicant if, pursuant
to inspection by the City Clerk, the site utilized to conduct the temporary
business has been cleared of trash and debris.
   (C)   Yard sales, garage sales, street sales and all other similar type of
sales shall not be required to purchase a license as required herein, unless
the sales are held by the same person or family or on the same premises more
than twice during the period between July 1 through June 30, or if the sale
exceeds three consecutive days. In the event that the sale exceeds three
consecutive days or takes place on more than 2 occasions during the license
period, a licensee will be required to obtain a license and pay a fee in the
amount of $25 per day.
(Ord. 5, Series 9-8-2005; Am. Ord. 6, Series 2005-2006, passed 12-8-2005) 
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.28  SEPARATE LICENSES.
   Where a part of a business is situated in one or more other locations apart
from the principal place of a business, the licensee shall be required by this
chapter to file a single return provided the licensee files with the City Clerk
an affidavit setting out the facts sufficient to prove to the City Clerk that
the separate locations are, in fact, an integral part of the principal place of
business.
(Ord. 5, Series 9-8-2005; Am. Ord. 6, Series 2005-2006, passed 12-8-2005) 
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.29  REFUNDS.
   The City Clerk, with the approval of the City Council, is authorized to make
refunds of license taxes paid under this chapter if satisfactory evidence is
presented that an error was made in determining the amount of a license tax, or
that incorrect data was shown on a licensee's return or that a
misinterpretation of the provisions of this chapter resulted in the payment of
a license tax in excess of the amount properly payable. Application for a
refund must be made by the licensee prior to the end of the license year for
which the license tax was paid. The City Clerk shall correct and receive the
license fees imposed by this chapter and the City Clerk shall keep records
showing the amount received from each license and the date of the receipt.
(Ord. 5, Series 9-8-2005; Am. Ord. 6, Series 2005-2006, passed 12-8-2005) 
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.30  SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   (A)   Each person who engages in business, not exempted herein, whose gross
receipts equal or exceed $30,000 for that preceding business fiscal or calendar
year shall pay an amount equal to .001 of gross receipts.
   (B)   A receipt shall be considered as received at the office or place of
business of the tax payer where the services or the transactions giving rise to
the receipts are chiefly performed, negotiated or take place. If the receipts
result from orders received by telephone or mail, the receipts shall be
allocated to the place of business where the orders are processed. The gross
commission of a manufacturer's agent or an insurance agent shall constitute his
or her gross receipts.
   (C)   Each person that is a lessor of real property in and improvements to
real property in the city including, but not limited to houses, apartments, and
commercial business buildings is deemed to be engaged in business and shall
obtain a license therefore and pay the following fee: $100 for single family
residential houses; $50 per dwelling unit for any multi-family development; $50
per each commercial unit, with the exception that any mini-warehouse operation
shall instead pay per its income as set out in division (A).
(Ord. 5, Series 9-8-2005; Am. Ord. 6, Series 2005-2006, passed 12-8-2005) 
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.31  ADMINISTRATION.
   This chapter shall be administered by the City Clerk under the direction of
the Mayor. The City Clerk with the approval of the Mayor, shall have the
authority to issue and promulgate regulations as he or she may consider
necessary for the administration and enforcement of this chapter, provided the
regulations are not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter, provided
the regulations, when promulgated, are approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 5, Series 9-8-2005; Am. Ord. 6, Series 2005-2006, passed 12-8-2005) 
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.32  MAINTAINING RECORDS.
   (A)   Each person subject to the provisions of this chapter shall maintain a
record showing gross receipts as defined in this chapter, but a separate record
shall not be required if the licensee's regular records contain the
information. Whenever the City Clerk considers it necessary for proper
administration of this chapter, a licensee shall permit an officer or employee
of the city of make an audit of the records and any other books, papers, files,
equipment, stock or inventory of the licensee, and to examine witnesses under
oath for the purpose of determining whether any provisions of this chapter are
being violated. If the City Clerk determines, on a basis of auditing returns of
a licensee, or on a basis of audits of a licensee's records, books, papers,
files, equipment, stock or inventory, or on a basis of examination of witnesses
under oath, that the amount of license tax has not been paid, a notice shall be
given to the licensee of the additional amount due, which shall be paid by the
licensee with 30 days with the penalty as provided. The notice of additional
tax or a notice that no tax has been paid may be served and the amount of
license tax may be collected by the City Clerk at any time within five years
after the license tax was payable under this chapter.
   (B)   The records are to be preserved to enable the City Clerk or any agent
or employer of the City Clerk to verify the correctness of the return filed.
(Ord. 5, Series 9-8-2005; Am. Ord. 6, Series 2005-2006, passed 12-8-2005) 
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, any person
violating any provision of §
110.20 et seq. shall be fined $50 for each offense. Each day the person
continues the violation shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2) In addition to the penalties provided in division (B)(1) , the tax or
fee may be collected from the licensee from the date the same is due by civil
action in any court of competent jurisdiction in the state and recovery shall
not relieve the person from the payment of a fine for engaging in any business
herein mentioned without a license to do so.
(Am. Ord. 5, Series 9-8-2005; Am. Ord. 6, Series 2005-2006, passed 12-8-2005)
CHAPTER 111:  PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS.  The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS.  Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes but is not
restricted to wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT.  Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of that business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   (a)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means
carrying goods for sale, making sales, or making deliveries; or
         (b)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city.
      (2)   A person who is a PEDDLER is not an itinerant merchant.
   SOLICITOR.  Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future.  A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 111.02  LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in that activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the City Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03  APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk.  This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation.  The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of the individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of the individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which the individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom the goods are manufactured or grown,
and where the goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, the individual identified in division
(A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their applications the following:
      (1)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising proposed
to be used in connection with the applicant’s business; and
      (2)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any, for
whom the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act as
the representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
applications, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than 10 days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04  STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. 
In particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done or possesses any
of the following will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an
application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character.
§ 111.05  REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06.  Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing.  This notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least 10 days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06  STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 111.07  APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the City Council.  The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the City Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal.  The City Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to the
person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the City Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08  EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein.  In the event more
than 1 place within the city shall used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter.  The license shall contain the words “Licensed
Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license, and the
number of the license.  The license shall be kept with the licensee during the
time that he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500.  Each day’s violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 112:  PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Bond
   
112.03   Register to be kept; daily reports
   
112.04   Receipt to be given for each article; sale of article
   
112.05   Maximum interest, resale price
   
112.06   Receipt to be given for payment of loan
   
112.07   Prohibited activities
   
112.08   Enforcement
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER.  Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property;
deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the property
back again at a stipulated price; makes a public display at his or her place of
business of the sign generally used by PAWNBROKERS to denote their business; or
who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on personal property or
deposit.
(KRS 226.010)
§ 112.02  BOND.
   Every person to whom a city license is granted to carry on the business of a
pawnbroker shall annually enter into bond to the city, with good and sufficient
surety to be approved by City Council, in the penal sum of $1,000.  This bond
shall be conditioned that he or she will observe the provisions of this chapter
and all ordinances and laws in force in the city not inconsistent with this
chapter.
(KRS 226.020)
§ 112.03  REGISTER TO BE KEPT; DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)   (1)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and
purchases of all articles by the pawnbroker from the general public. The
register shall:
         (a)   Be reported to an online, Internet-based transaction recording
service accessible to law enforcement agencies;
         (b)   Show the dates and the amounts of all loans or purchases by the
pawnbroker from the general public, and the names and:
            1.   A driver’s license number;
            2.   Another state or federally issued picture identification card
number; or
            3.   If the identification specified in division (A)(1)(b)1. or 2.
is not available, a Social Security number may be accepted;
of all persons who have left any property that has been pawned or sold;
         (c)   At all times be available to the inspection of any law
enforcement officer of this state when in the discharge of his or her official
duty; and
         (d)   Contain a full description of all property purchased by the
pawnbroker from the general public or received on deposit as collateral or
security. When requested by law enforcement and pertaining to an investigation,
a photograph of the merchandise shall be made available to law enforcement if
the property is still in the possession of the pawnbroker. For purposes of this
paragraph, FULL DESCRIPTION includes but is not limited to:
            1.   Make;
            2.   Model;
            3.   Color;
            4.   Size;
            5.   Manufacturer;
            6.   Vintage; and
            7.   Distinguishing marks or characteristics.
      (2)   When secondhand merchandise is sold to a pawnbroker, the
merchandise shall be held for a minimum of 12 days before being resold.
      (3)   Prior to the release of property to a representative of law
enforcement, the law enforcement representative shall provide to the pawnbroker
a case report or other documentation that the item has been reported as stolen.
(KRS 226.040)
   (B)   Every pawnbroker shall, by 11:00 a.m. each day, make available to the
Chief of Police a true and correct written report of all goods received by him
or her, whether by pawn or purchase, during the 24 hours preceding each
report.  The report shall describe the goods as accurately as practicable. The
Chief of Police shall furnish blanks for these reports. 
(KRS 226.070)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04  RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR EACH ARTICLE; SALE OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall give a plain written or printed ticket for the
loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased or upon which money is loaned,
having on each a copy of the entries required by §
112.03(A) to be kept in his or her register.  He or she shall not make any
charge for the ticket or receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of 60
days from the maturity of the loan.  However, not less than 10 days before
making the sale, the pawnbroker shall give notice to the person by whom the
article was pawned, by mail addressed to the post office address of that person
as shown on the pawnbroker’s register, notifying the person that, unless he or
she redeems the article within 10 days from the date of mailing of the notice,
the article will be sold.
(KRS 226.050)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05  MAXIMUM INTEREST, RESALE PRICE.
   Any pawnbroker as defined in §
112.01, may, in loaning money on deposit of personal property, charge, contract
for, or receive interest at a rate not exceeding 2% per month on the unpaid
principal balance of the loan, and may charge, contract for, and receive a
reasonable fee, not to exceed 1/5 of the value of the loan per month, for
investigating the title, storing and insuring the property, closing the loan,
making daily reports to local law enforcement officers, and for other expenses,
losses, and incidental costs associated with servicing these loans.  Further,
this fee, when made and collected, shall not be deemed as interest for any
purpose of law.  No pawnbroker shall directly or indirectly charge, receive, or
contract for any interest or consideration greater than that allowed by this
section.
(KRS 226.080)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06  RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR PAYMENT OF LOAN.
   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower, shall
give to that person a plain and complete receipt for the payment, specifying
separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to interest. 
In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased personal property under an
agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on
receiving any payment of money from the person from whom the property was
purchased, give that person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the
stipulated resale price, and the amount received.
(KRS 226.090)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07  PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of either pledge or pawn, any article
whatever from a minor at any time, nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
(KRS 226.030)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter
unless otherwise provided by KRS 226.100. 
   (B)   However, county police, for the purpose of locating stolen goods, may
carry out the provisions of KRS 226.060 within the city.
(KRS 226.100)
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any pawnbroker or pawnbroker’s clerk who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter for which no penalty is otherwise provided shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, shall be fined not less than $50
nor more than $500, and his or her license may be forfeited to the city. 
(KRS 226.990(1))
   (B)   Any pawnbroker who violates any of the provisions of §
112.03(B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $20
nor more than $100. 
(KRS 226.990(3))
CHAPTER 113:  INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
113.01   Imposition of license fee
   
113.02   Amount of fee for companies issuing life insurance
   
113.03   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
113.04   Due date; interest
   
113.05   Written breakdown of collections
§ 113.01  IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city, on a calendar-year basis.
§ 113.02  AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING LIFE INSURANCE.
   The license fee or tax imposed by a city upon each insurance company with
respect to life insurance policies may be based upon the first year’s premiums,
and if so based, shall be applied to the amount of the premiums actually
collected within each calendar quarter upon the lives of persons residing
within the corporate limits of the city.
(KRS 91A.080(2))
§ 113.03  AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   (A)   The license fee or tax imposed upon each insurance company with
respect to any policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be based upon
the premiums actually collected  by the company within each calendar quarter on
risks located within the corporate limits of the city on those classes of
business which the company is authorized to transact, less all premiums
returned to policyholders.
   (B)   Any license fee or tax imposed upon premium receipts shall not include
premiums received for insuring employers against liability for personal
injuries to their employees, or death caused thereby, under the provisions of
the Workers’ Compensation Act.
(KRS 91A.080(3))
   (C)   The license fee or tax shall also not apply to premiums received on
policies of group health insurance provided for state employees under KRS
18A.225 and KRS 91A.080(6) to (11).
(KRS 91A.080(10))
   (D)   No license fee or tax imposed under this section shall apply to
premiums received on health insurance policies issued to individuals, nor to
policies issued through Kentucky Access, created in KRS 304.17B-005.
(KRS 91A.080(13)
§ 113.04  DUE DATE; INTEREST.
   (A)   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30
days after the end of each calendar quarter. 
(KRS 91A.080(8))
   (B)   License fees which are not paid on or before the due date shall bear
interest at the tax interest rate as defined in KRS 131.010(6) from the date
due until paid.
(KRS 91A.080(9))
§ 113.05  WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city with a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(KRS 91A.080(8))
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Curfew
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Curfew for minors
   
130.03   Exceptions
   
130.04   Parental responsibility
   
130.05   Police procedures
 
   
130.99   Penalty
CURFEW
§ 130.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MINOR.  Any person under the age of 18, or, in equivalent phrasing often
herein employed, any person 17 or less years of age.
   PARENT.  Any person having legal custody of a minor:
      (1)   As a natural or adoptive parent;
      (2)   As a legal guardian;
      (3)   As a person who stands in loco parentis; or
      (4)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of court.
   REMAIN.  To stay behind, to tarry and to stay unnecessarily upon the
streets.
   STREET.  A way or place, of whatsoever nature, open to the use of the public
as a matter of right for purposes of vehicular travel or in the case of a
sidewalk thereof for pedestrian travel, the term street includes the legal
right of way, including but not limited to the traffic lanes, the curb, the
sidewalks whether paved or unpaved, and any grass plots or other grounds found
within the legal right of way of a street.
   TIME OF NIGHT.  Based upon the prevailing standard of time, whether eastern
standard time or eastern daylight saving time, generally observed at that hour
by the public in the city, prima facie the time then observed in the city.
   YEAR OF AGE. Continues from one birthday, such as the seventeenth to (but
not including the day of) the next, such as the eighteenth birthday, making it
clear that 17 or less years of age is herein treated as equivalent to the
phrase "under 18 years of age".
§ 130.02  CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person 17 or less years of age (under 18) to be
or remain in or upon the streets within the city at night during the period
ending at 6:00 a.m. and beginning at midnight.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03  EXCEPTIONS.
   In the following exceptional cases a minor on a city street during the
nocturnal hours for which §
130.02 is intended to provide the maximum limits of regulation (and a clear
general guide for minors, their parents and their fellow-citizens) shall not,
however be considered in violation of this subchapter.
   (A)   When accompanied by a parent of the minor;
   (B)   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent of the minor to
take the parent's place in accompanying the minor for a designated period of
time and purpose within a specified area;
   (C)   When exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly;  (The minor shall evidence the bona fides of the exercise by
first delivering, to the Mayor, or his or her representative (the officer on
duty) a written communication, signed by the minor and countersigned if
practical, by a parent of the minor with their home address and telephone
number, addressed to the Mayor of the city specifying when, where and in what
manner the minor will be on the streets at night (during hours when this
subchapter is otherwise applicable to the minor) in the exercise of a First
Amendment right specified in such communication.)
   (D)   In case of reasonable necessity but only after the minor's parent has
communicated to the city police station personnel the facts establishing the
reasonable necessity relating to specified streets at a designated time for a
described purpose including points of origin and destination;  (A copy of the
communication, or of the police record thereof, duly certified by the Chief of
Police to be correct, with an appropriate notation of the time it was received
and of the names and address of such parent and minor, shall be admissible
evidence.)
   (E)   When the minor is on the sidewalk of the place where the minor
resides;
   (F)   When returning home, by a direct route from (and within 30 minutes of
the termination of) a school activity, or an activity of a religious or other
voluntary association, of which prior notice, indicating the place and probable
time of termination, has been given in writing to, and duly filed for immediate
reference by, the Chief of Police or the officer assigned by him or her on duty
at the police station, thus encouraging (here as in other exceptional
situations) conduct on the part of minors involved in such activities and
striking a fair balance for any somewhat conflicting interests;
   (G)   When authorized, by special permit from the Mayor, carried on the
person of the minor thus authorized, as follows.  When necessary nighttime
activities of a minor may be inadequately provided for by other provisions of
this subchapter, then recourse may be had to the Mayor either for a regulation
as provided in division (H) or for a special permit as the circumstances
warrant.  Upon the Mayor's finding of necessity for the use of the streets to
the extent warranted by a written application signed by a minor and by a parent
of such minor if feasible stating:
      (1)   The name, age and address of the minor;
      (2)   The name, address and telephone number of a parent thereof;
      (3)   The height, weight, sex, color of eyes and hair and other physical
characteristics of the minor;
      (4)   The necessity which requires such minor to remain upon the streets
during the curfew hours otherwise applicable; and
      (5)   The street or route and the beginning and ending of the period of
time involved by date and hour, the Mayor may grant a permit in writing for the
use by the minor of the streets at such hours as in the Mayor's opinion may
reasonably be necessary.  In an emergency this may be handled by telephone, or
other effective communication, with a corresponding record being made
contemporaneously, either to the Mayor or if unavailable to the police officer
authorized by the Mayor to act on his or her behalf in an emergency, at the
police station.
   (H)   When authorized, by regulation issued by the Mayor, in other similar
cases of reasonable necessity, similarly handled but adapted to necessary
night-time activities of more minors than can readily be dealt with on an
individual special permit basis;  (Normally such regulation by the Mayor
permitting use of the streets should be issued sufficiently in advance to
permit appropriate publicity through news media and shall define the activity,
the scope of the use of the streets permitted, the period of time involved not
to extend more than 30 minutes beyond the time for termination of such
activity, and the reason for finding that such regulation is reasonably
necessary.)
   (I)   When the minor carries a certified card of employment, renewable each
calendar month when the current facts so warrant, dated or re-issued not more
than 45 days previously, signed by the Mayor and briefly identifying the minor,
the addresses of his or her home and of his or her place of employment, and his
or her hours of employment; and
   (J)   When the minor is engaged in interstate travel through the city or
beginning or ending within the city.
§ 130.04  PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a parent having legal custody of a minor
knowingly to permit or by inefficient control to allow, such minor to be or
remain upon any city street under circumstances not constituting an exception
to, or otherwise beyond the scope of, this subchapter.
   (B)   The term "knowingly" includes knowledge which a parent should
reasonably be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a minor in that
parent's legal custody. It is intended to continue to keep neglectful or
careless parents up to a reasonable community standard of parental
responsibility through an objective test. It shall be no defense that a parent
was completely indifferent to the activities or conduct or whereabouts of such
minor.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05  POLICE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   A police officer upon finding or having attention called to any minor
on the streets in prima facie violation of this subchapter, normally shall take
the minor to the city hall, where a parent shall immediately be notified to
come for the minor, whereupon they shall be interrogated.
      (1)   This is intended to permit ascertainment, under constitutional
safeguards, of relevant facts, and to centralize responsibility in the officer
there and then on duty for accurate, effective, fair, impartial and uniform
enforcement and recording.
      (2)   In the absence of convincing evidence such as a birth certificate,
a police officer on the street shall in the first instance use his or her best
judgment in determining age.
   (B)   Police procedures shall constantly be refined in the light of
experience and may provide that the police officer may deliver to a parent
thereof a minor under appropriate circumstances, for example a minor of tender
age near home whose identity and address may readily be ascertained or is
known.
   (C)   In any event such police officer shall within 24 hours file a written
report with the Mayor.
   (D)   When a parent, immediately called, has come to take charge of the
minor, and the appropriate information has been recorded, the minor shall be
released to the custody of such parent. If the parent cannot be located, or
fails to take charge of the minor, the police officer shall deliver the minor
to a relative, if available, and if not, shall deliver the minor to his or her
residence and direct the minor to remain there for the duration of the curfew
period.
   (E)   In the case of a first violation by a minor, the Mayor shall by
certified mail, send to a parent written notice of the violation with a warning
that any subsequent violation will result in full enforcement of this
subchapter, including enforcement of parental responsibility and of applicable
penalties.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   If, after the warning notice pursuant to §
130.05 of a first violation by a minor, a parent violates §
130.04 (in connection with a second violation by the minor), this shall be
treated as a first offense by the parent. For such first parental offense, a
parent shall be fined $25 and for each subsequent offense by a parent, the fine
shall be increased by an additional $25 to a maximum of $100.
   (B)   Any minor who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
130.02,
130.04 or
130.05 more than 3 times shall be reported by the Mayor to the appropriate
juvenile authorities.
   (C)   A like procedure (division (B)) shall be followed in any case where
the imposition of a fine or fines upon a parent shall not be effective, or
where for any other reason the provisions of §§
130.02,
130.04 or
130.05 cannot be made effective by the imposition of penalties under this
section.
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   SIGNS
      
152.   MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
      
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
150.01   Adoption of Kentucky Building Code and Standards of Safety;
enforcement agents
   
150.02   Application
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01  ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE AND STANDARDS OF SAFETY;
ENFORCEMENT AGENTS.
   (A)   The Kentucky Building Code, as contained in Chapter 7, Title 815 of
the Kentucky Administrative Regulations; the Kentucky Plumbing Code, as
contained in Chapter 20, Title 815 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations;
the Kentucky Standards of Safety, as contained in Chapter 10, Title 815 of the
Kentucky Administrative Regulations, together with any amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference as if fully set forth in this code of ordinances.  Copies
of the above codes and any amendments thereto shall be placed on file in the
office of the City Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (B)   The Chief Building Inspector for Metro Louisville shall be designated
as the local enforcement agent for the Kentucky Building Code, with the
exception that prior to the issuance of any building or demolition permit from
Metro Louisville, the City of Plantation must review said permit application
and plans to determine if the project (and its site) is in compliance with all
city ordinances and that the proposed structure or improvement (when compared
with the surrounding neighborhood) will not substantially interfere with the
comfortable enjoyment of life and property, or tend to depreciate the value of
the property of others, as set out in
Chapter 92 of the codified ordinances (Nuisances). Said determination shall be
made in writing by the city no later than 20 days after submittal by the
applicant. If the property is in compliance, a letter of compliance shall be
issued to the applicant by the city and the applicant shall present that letter
of compliance to Metro Louisville, as a required part of their permit process.
No building or demolition permit shall be effective within the city unless and
until said a letter of compliance is issued stating that the proposed structure
or improvement is in compliance with all city ordinances.
(Am. Ord. 3, Series 2007-2008, passed 8-9-2007)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02  APPLICATION.
   The application of the State Building Code shall be extended to all single-
family dwellings in the city which are to be constructed or remodeled.
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §
150.01 shall be subject to the following penalties:
   (A)   Violators of the Uniform State Building Code or the Uniform State
Residential Code shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than
$10 nor more than $1,000 for each offense.
(KRS 198B.990(1))
   (B)   Violators of the State Standards of Safety shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $1,000, imprisonment for
not more than 60 days, or both, for each offense.
(KRS 227.990(1))
   (C)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100, imprisonment for not
more than 90 days, or both, for each offense.
(KRS 318.990)
CHAPTER 151:  SIGNS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Short title
   
151.02   Purpose
   
151.03   Protection of first amendment rights
   
151.04   Definitions
Permits
   
151.15   Permits required
   
151.16   Application
   
151.17   Issuance
   
151.18   Permit fee
   
151.19   Annual inspection
   
151.20   Revocation of permit
   
151.21   Exemptions
Requirements and Regulations
   
151.35   General requirements
   
151.36   Construction requirements
   
151.37   Residential/office signs
   
151.38   Business signs
   
151.39   Maintenance
   
151.40   Obstructions to doors, windows or fire escapes
   
151.41   Unsafe signs
   
151.42   Obscene signs
   
151.43   Prohibited signs
Administration and Enforcement
   
151.55   Permits not issued for signs not in compliance
   
151.56   Notice; removal
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01  SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall hereafter be known and cited as the “Sign Regulations.”
§ 151.02  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish reasonable regulations for the
design, construction, installation and maintenance of all exterior signs in the
city in order to:
   (A)   Balance the right of individuals to identify their businesses and
convey their messages and the right of the public to be protected against the
unrestricted proliferation of signs;
   (B)   Further the objectives of the city land use plan;
   (C)   Protect the public health, safety and welfare;
   (D)   Reduce traffic hazards;
   (E)   Facilitate the creation of an attractive and harmonious community;
   (F)   Protect property values;
   (G)   Promote economic development; and
   (H)   Preserve the right of free speech exercised through the use of signs
containing non-commercial messages.
§ 151.03  PROTECTION OF FIRST AMENDMENT RIGHTS.
   Any sign allowed under this chapter may contain, in lieu of any other copy,
any lawful noncommercial message that does not direct attention to a business
operated for profit or to a commodity or service for sale and that complies
with all other requirements of this chapter.
§ 151.04  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIAL.  The Citation Officer or other person(s) appointed
by the Chief Executive of the jurisdiction having zoning authority.
   AWNING.  A roof-like cover constructed of cloth, metal or other material
designed and intended for protection from the weather and/or as a decorative
embellishment, and which is supported by and projects from a wall of a
structure over a window, walk, door or the like.
   AWNING SIGN.  A sign painted on, printed on or attached flat against the
surface of an awning.
   BUSINESS SIGN.  Commonly known as an “on premises sign” is a sign used to
identify a business, profession, trade or occupation on the site and/or the
generic or brand name products or services available at the site, and shall
include an attached sign, freestanding sign, projecting sign and freestanding
directional sign.
   CANOPY.  A roof-like cover constructed of cloth, metal or other materials
designed and intended for protection of the entrance way of a building from the
weather, which is supported by a building at 1 or more points or extremities
and when structurally needed by columns or posts affixed to the ground at other
points or extremities.
   CANOPY SIGN.  A sign painted on, printed on or attached flat against the
surface of the canopy.
   CLUB IDENTIFICATION SIGN.  A sign used to identify a club, lodge, fraternity
or sorority.
   COMMUNITY FACILITY IDENTIFICATION SIGN.  A sign identifying a church, school
or other institution of learning, library, museum, community center or similar
institution on site.
   CONSTRUCTION SIGN.  A sign used to identify the persons or businesses
engaged in the construction of a building on site.
   EXCEPTIONAL RESIDENTIAL USE SIGN.  A sign used to identify a residence on
site for persons sharing a common status, disability or condition.
   ILLUMINATED AWNING SIGN.  An internally illuminated awning with translucent
covering and with graphics or copy applied to the visible surface of the
awning.
   ILLUMINATED CANOPY SIGN.  An internally illuminated canopy with translucent
covering and with graphics or copy applied to the visible surface of the
canopy.
   MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL IDENTIFICATION SIGN.  A sign used to identify a
multi- family development on site.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN.  A sign which does not conform to the provisions of this
chapter or which does not conform to the city sign ordinance in effect at the
time of the erection of the sign.
      (1)   Nonconforming signs, other than temporary or portable signs,
lawfully in existence at the time of the adoption of this chapter may be
continued.
      (2)   No nonconforming sign may be enlarged or altered in any way which
would increase its nonconformity.
      (3)   Should any nonconforming sign be damaged by any means to an extent
of more than 25% of its replacement cost at the time of damage, it shall not be
reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   OFFICE BUILDING IDENTIFICATION SIGN.  A sign used to identify an office
building on site, or, where allowed, the occupants thereof.
   OFF-PREMISE SIGN.  Including a sign commonly known as a “billboard,” is a
sign used to display, advertise or otherwise direct attention to any business
enterprise, commodity, service or entertainment conducted, sold or offered at a
location other than the premises on which the sign is located.
   READER BOARD SIGN.  A business sign or part thereof that is designed so that
characters, letters or illustrations can be easily changed or rearranged
without altering the face or surface of the sign.
   RENT/SALE SIGN.  A sign used to advertise the premises on site or a portion
thereof for sale or lease.
   SIGN.  Any writing, device, pictorial representation, illustration, emblem,
symbol, design or other figure of similar character which is a structure or a
part thereof, or is attached to or in any manner represented on a building or
other structure, and is placed out of doors in view of the general public and
is used for purposes of advertisement, announcement, declaration,
demonstration, display identification or expression, except for the following:
      (1)   Non-illuminated names of buildings, dates of erection, monument
citations, commemorative tablets and the like when carved into stone, concrete,
metal or any other permanent type of construction and made an integral part of
an allowed structure or made flush to the ground;
      (2)   Signs required by law or signs of a duly constituted government
body;
      (3)   Signs placed by a public utility for the safety, welfare or
convenience of the public, including but not limited to signs identifying high
voltage, public telephone or underground cables;
      (4)   Signs upon a vehicle, provided that any such vehicle with a sign
face of over 1 square foot is not conspicuously parked so as to constitute a
sign; nothing herein prevents such a vehicle from being used for bona fide
delivery and other vehicular purposes;
      (5)   Temporary holiday decorations;
      (6)   Non-illuminated numerals displayed on and denoting the address of a
building or property which are not part of an otherwise existing attached or
freestanding sign; and
      (7)   Signs placed within the interior of a building which are attached
to and/or visible through windows or doors provided the sign occupies no more
than 1/4 the total square footage of the window or door.
   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL OCCUPANT SIGN.  A sign used to identify the
individual or individuals occupying a single-family residence.
   SUBDIVISION IDENTIFICATION.  A sign used to identify a subdivision on site.
PERMITS
§ 151.15  PERMITS REQUIRED.
   Except as provided in §
151.17, it shall be unlawful for any person to erect, relocate, structurally
alter, reconstruct or substantially repair or change within the city, any sign
or other advertising structure.
   (A)   Reconstructing signs.
      (1)   No sign heretofore approved and erected shall be substantially
repaired, altered or moved, nor shall any sign, or any substantial part
thereof, which is blown down or destroyed, be re-erected, reconstructed or
rebuilt unless it is made to comply with all applicable requirements of this
chapter.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, shall refer to:
         (a)   Any change in copy face in excess of 60% of the existing sign;
and
         (b)   Or actual repairs made (not designed to bring the sign within
compliance), the test being the actual cost of any such repair. Such cost of
repair, if in excess of 25% of the current cost of the sign, shall be
sufficient for the purpose of this chapter to qualify as a substantial repair
or change.
   (B)   Relocating signs. Any sign that is moved to another location either on
the same or another premises shall be considered a new sign and a permit shall
be secured.
§ 151.16  APPLICATION.
   Application for a sign permit shall be made upon a form provided by the
authorized city official and shall contain and have attached the following
information:
   (A)   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
   (B)   Location of building, structure or lot to which or upon which the sign
or other advertising structure is to be attached or erected;
   (C)   Position of the sign or other advertising structure in relation to
nearby buildings or structures;
   (D)   One complete copy of the plans, and specifications including
dimensions, sign verbiage, materials and details of construction;
   (E)   Written consent of the owner of the building or land to which or on
which the sign is to be erected;
   (F)   Any required electrical permit; and
   (G)   Such other information as the authorized city official shall require
to show full compliance with this and all other laws and ordinances of the
city.
§ 151.17  ISSUANCE.
   Upon the filing of an application for a sign permit, the authorized city
official shall:
   (A)   Examine the plans and specifications and the premises upon which the
proposed structure shall be erected; and
   (B)   Issue a permit if the proposed structure complies with the
requirements of this chapter and all other laws and ordinances of the city. If
the work authorized under a sign permit is not completed within six months
after the date of issuance, the permit shall become null and void.
§ 151.18  PERMIT FEE.
   Every applicant, prior to issuance of a permit pursuant to §
151.17, shall pay to the city a nonrefundable fee of $1 per square foot of sign
face for each sign or other advertising structure regulated by this chapter.
The fee shall be good for the life of the sign, in accordance with the
provisions of §
151.15 herein.
§ 151.19  ANNUAL INSPECTION.
   The authorized city official shall inspect annually, or whenever deemed
necessary, each sign or other advertising structure regulated by this chapter
for the purpose of ascertaining whether the structure is unsafe, in need of
repair, not in conformance with the permit application, or otherwise in
violation of the provisions of this chapter.
§ 151.20  REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The authorized city official may revoke any permit where there has been a
violation of the provisions of this chapter or a misrepresentation of fact on
the permit application.
§ 151.21  EXEMPTIONS.
   The following signs are exempt from the permit requirements of this chapter:
   (A)   Temporary political signs concerning candidates for public office and
ballot issues and not exceeding 12 square feet in area. The signs shall be
removed no later than 7 days after the election or referendum.
   (B)   Temporary signs advertising the date, time and location of a garage or
yard sale and not exceeding 4 square feet in area. The signs shall be posted no
more than 3 days prior to and removed 1 day after the sale.
   (C)   Signs attached to the inside of a window and not exceeding 4 square
feet in area which do not exceed 25% of the area of the window pane.
   (D)   Signs which are an integral part of the historic character of a
landmark building or historic district.
   (E)   Public signs regulating vehicular or pedestrian traffic or designating
or giving direction to streets, schools, hospitals, historical site or public
facilities.
   (F)   Flags of any government or governmental agency or any patriotic,
religious, charitable, civic, educational or fraternal organization not
exceeding 40 square feet in area.
   (G)   Special decorative displays, used for holidays, public demonstrations,
or promotion of civic welfare or charitable purposes, when authorized by the
City Council on which there is no commercial advertising, provided the city is
held harmless for any damage resulting therefrom. The signs shall be erected no
more than 45 days before and removed no later than 14 days after the
celebration.
   (H)   Hand-held signs of a noncommercial nature not set on or affixed to the
ground and not exceeding 10 square feet in area.
   (I)   Home and commercial building occupational signs identifying the name
and profession of the occupants(s) and not exceeding 2 square feet in area.
   (J)   Memorial or commemorative plaques or tablets denoting a building name
and/or date of erection or a location of historic significance and not
exceeding 4 square feet in area.
REQUIREMENTS AND REGULATIONS
§ 151.35  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No sign shall be placed in a manner visible from any public street,
alley, right-of-way, sidewalk or other public easement except as provided
herein nor shall any sign be placed in or extend over any required yard in any
district or be placed in or extend over any street, right-of-way, roadway,
sidewalk, public or private utility or access or other easement, or alley
except as provided herein.
   (B)   All signs allowed hereunder shall be constructed and placed so as not
to interfere with vehicular traffic by obstructing sight lines for streets,
pedestrian rights-of-way and driveways.
   (C)   No sign shall be allowed to be illuminated except as expressly
provided herein.
      (1)   All illuminated signs shall be subject to the provision of the
Electrical Code and its requisite permit fees.
      (2)   Signs which are otherwise allowed to be illuminated are not allowed
if the authorized city official shall find that the lighting causes glare or
otherwise interferes with the vision of persons operating motor vehicles.
      (3)   All illuminated signs shall be non-flashing and shall be constant
in intensity and color, except that signs which display time and temperature
are allowed in C-N, C-1, C-2, C-3, C-M, M—1, M—2 and M—3 zones.
   (D)   No sign shall be allowed if the authorized city official finds that
the sign is constructed or designed in a manner which may cause the sign to be
confused with a traffic sign or other traffic-control device.
   (E)   The maximum allowed area for all signs other than freestanding
business signs shall be determined by drawing 4 or fewer straight lines
encompassing the extremities of the sign within the smallest possible area.
   (F)   The maximum allowed area for freestanding business signs shall be
measured by drawing eight or fewer straight lines encompassing the extremities
of the sign within the smallest possible area, provided, however, that the area
of a freestanding sign shall not include poles, supports or other structures
which are solely for support and which do not contain any advertising and the
area of a freestanding sign shall not include the space between the business
identification portion of a freestanding business sign and the reader board
portion, provided that these portions are separated by a distance of more than
two feet and no small freestanding sign is located on the lot.
   (G)   Signs which revolve, rotate or move in any way shall be allowed in the
C-N, C-1, C-2, C-3, C-M, M—1, M—2 and M—3 zones only and no such sign shall
move faster than 1 cycle every 10 seconds.
   (H)   No sign shall have more than 4 faces.
   (I)   One non-permanent sign may be erected per lot provided that the sign
does not exceed 32 square feet in areas or 5 feet above ground in height.
   (J)   This regulation shall be in addition to the requirements of KRS
177.830 through 177.890.
§ 151.36  CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Materialsrequired.  Wood, plastic, glass and other accepted materials
as approved by the authorized city official.
   (B)   Glass requirements. The lettering or advertising designs to be
illuminated may be composed of glass or other transparent or semi-transparent
incombustible material. Any glass forming a part of any sign shall be safety
glass, tempered glass or plate glass at least 1/4 inch thick and in case any
single piece or pane of glass has an area exceeding 3 square feet, it shall be
wired glass. One section, not exceeding 3 square feet in area, constructed of
wire glass or safety glass shall be permitted on each side of sign.
   (C)   Letters to be secured. All letters, figures, characters or
representations in cut-out or irregular form, maintained in conjunction with,
attached to or superimposed upon any sign shall be safely and securely built or
attached to the sign structure.
   (D)   Wood preservative. All wooden posts, anchors and braces which rest
upon or enter into the ground shall be treated with copper chromated arsenical
(CCA) or another commercially available wood preservative or its equivalent
rot-resistance material. If creosote or any other restricted use substance is
used, it shall be applied by a state-certified handler.
   (E)   Erection. All signs shall be securely designed, constructed and
erected to proper specifications as approved by the authorized city official.
§ 151.37  RESIDENTIAL/OFFICE SIGNS.
   (A)   One single-family residential occupant sign not exceeding 1 square
foot shall be allowed anywhere on the premises of each residence.
   (B)   One freestanding subdivision identification sign not exceeding 12
square feet in area or 5 feet in height shall be allowed at each dedicated
street entrance within the building lines of the subdivision during
construction, for not more than 60 days prior to the commencement of
construction, and after construction until such time as 80% of the lots are
sold. Thereafter, 1 subdivision identification sign not exceeding 15 square
feet in area or 10 feet in height shall be allowed at each dedicated street
entrance within the building lines.
   (C)   One freestanding or attached community facility identification sign
not to exceed 30 square feet in area and not exceeding ten feet in height
facing each bordering street is allowed on the premises of any community
center, church, school, library, museum or similar institution. A church sign
may be illuminated if it is less than 18 square feet in area and less than 8
feet in height, provided that, if the church is located in a district for which
a larger business sign would be allowed, then the size of the sign may be the
size allowed in that district.
   (D)   One exceptional residential use sign or club identification sign
facing each bordering street not to exceed 6 square feet in area is allowed on
each site on which an exceptional residential use of club, lodge, fraternity or
sorority is located. Any such sign if freestanding must not exceed 6 feet in
height.
   (E)   One illuminated or non-illuminated mufti-family residential
identification sign attached flat on the face of the building and extending no
more than 12 inches from the surface of such building is allowed to face each
street bordering on the site on which a mufti-family dwelling is located in the
R-5A, R-6, R-7, R-8, OR-1, OR-2, OR-3 or OTF Districts. The signs may not
exceed 12 square feet in area if the site is in the R-5 A, R-6, R-7, R-8 A or
OR-1 Districts and may not exceed 50 square feet in area if the site is in the
OR-2-OR-3, OTF, W-1 or W-2 Districts. In no event shall an attached sign be
located more than 3 feet above the ceiling of the first floor of the building.
In the alternative one freestanding sign which shall not extend into any
required yard is allowed to face each street bordering the site provided that
the freestanding signs if located in the R-5A, R-6, R-7, R-8A or OR-1 Districts
shall not exceed a height of 6 feet above ground nor exceed an area of 6 square
feet and if located in the OR-2, OTF, W-1 or W-2 Districts shall not exceed a
height of 10 feet above ground nor exceed an area of 30 square feet.
   (F)   One illuminated or non-illuminated office building identification sign
attached flat on the face of the building and extending no more than 12 inches
from the surface of such building is allowed to face each street bordering the
site on which an office building is located in the OR-1, OR-2, OR-3, OTF, W-
1 or W-2 Districts. The signs may not exceed 10 square feet in area if the site
is in the OR-1 District and may not exceed 50 square feet in area if the site
is in the OR-2, OR-3, OTF, W-1 or W-2 Districts. In no event shall an attached
sign be located more than 3 feet above the ceiling of the first floor of the
building. In the alternative one freestanding sign which shall not extend into
any required yard is allowed to face each street bordering the site provided
that such freestanding signs if located in the OR-1 District shall not exceed a
height of 6 feet above ground nor exceed an area of 6 feet and if located in
the OR-2, OR-3, OTF, W-1, W-2 Districts shall not exceed a height of 10 feet
above ground nor exceed an area of 30 square feet. In the OR-3 and OTF
Districts only up to 50% of the area of each sign may be used for tenant
identification with at least 50% of the area of such signs dedicated to the
building identification or name. In addition, freestanding directional signs
subject to the requirements of division (D) are allowed in the OR-1, OR-2, OR-
3, OTF, W-1 or W-2 Districts.
§ 151.38  BUSINESS SIGNS.
   (A)   Illuminated or non-illuminated. Illuminated or non-illuminated
business signs are allowed in the C-N, C-1, C-2, C-3, C-M, EZ-1, M—1, M—2 and
M—3 Districts subject to the restrictions set forth in §
151.37(C).
   (B)   Attached signs. An attached sign for the purpose of this section shall
mean a business sign painted on or mounted on and parallel to the facade of the
building.
      (1)   On a single use building there shall be both a primary and
secondary facade selected at the discretion of the property owner. On the
primary facade there shall be no more than 3 attached signs. On the secondary
facade there shall be only one sign. On a multi-use building there may be 1
sign on one facade for building identification. At least 50% of this sign must
be used to identify all tenants. Also, each business may have one sign per
business on any 1 facade. Both single-use and multi-use buildings are also
subject to the total maximum sign area requirements set forth below.
Exceptions: The one sign allowed on a multi-use building for building
identification and the 1 sign allowed on a single use building on the secondary
facade may not exceed 10% of that facade.
      (2)   The total area encompassed by all attached signs on any 1 facade of
the building shall not exceed:
 
Area Facade of Building                 Maximum Sign Area
Less than 500 square feet               20% of building facade area
Greater than or equal to 500 but less   100 square feet plus 15% of the amount
than 1,000 square feet                  by which building facade area exceeds
                                        500 square feet
Greater than or equal to 1,000 but less 175 square feet plus 5% of the amount
than 3,500 square feet                  by which building facade area exceeds
                                        1,000 square feet
Greater than or equal to 3,500 square   300 square feet
feet
 
      (3)   An attached sign mounted parallel to the exterior walls of a
building may project up to 18 inches from the surface to which it is mounted.
In the instance of a building on the property lines, an attached sign
constructed flat on the face of the building may extend into the right-of-way
no further than 18 inches from the surface of the building. An attached sign
mounted to a slanted (inclined) exterior surface may be mounted in the vertical
upright position as long as the sign does not project beyond 18 inches at the
point of attachment.  No such sign shall extend more than five feet above the
highest point of the exterior wall to which it is attached.  No such sign shall
be mounted on any roof.  No such sign shall extend to a height greater than 25
feet above ground, except that building located in the C-3 District and
hospitals may have an attached sign of any height. Awning signs may project up
to 48 inches from the facade to which they are mounted.  Canopy signs may
project up to 96 inches from the facade to which they are mounted.  Awnings and
canopies containing signs must be mounted no more than 3 feet above the ceiling
of the first floor of the building. The area of all awning and canopy signs
shall be included as part of the total allowable signage on any one facade of a
building. Whenever an awning or canopy contains signage and is internally
illuminated (illuminated canopy and awning signs) the entire surface area of
the awning or canopy is to be considered a sign when calculating the allowable
area for signage.
      (4)   In addition to the permanent attached signs allowed herein,
temporary banners (cloth, plastic or other nonrigid material with no enclosing
framework) are allowed in the C-N, C-1, C-2, C-3, C-M, EZ-1, M—1, M—2 and M—3
Districts upon the issuance of a permit by authorized city official.
         (a)   The permit shall be issued for a period not to exceed 30
consecutive days and for cumulative periods not to exceed 60 days in any
calendar year.
         (b)   Only 1 such temporary banner shall be allowed on any business
premises.
         (c)   The area of such a banner shall not exceed 50% of the sign area
allowed for permanent attached business signs on the building facade to which
the banner is affixed.
         (d)   The banner shall be of a square or rectangular design having all
4 corners secured with wire, steel or nylon cord of appropriate strength.
         (e)   Immediately upon expiration of the permit, the temporary banner
shall be removed.
         (f)   Any banner being displayed for which a valid permit has not been
issued, shall be deemed an unlawful, unpermittable sign. Any person found to be
in control of the premises shall be given 24 hours to remove the banner or it
may be removed by the authorized city official at the owners expense.
   (C)   Freestanding signs. In addition to the attached signs allowed above,
illuminated or non- illuminated freestanding signs are allowed subject to the
following restrictions:
      (1)   No freestanding sign shall be located in or project over or into
the right-of-way or into any adjoining property.
      (2)   No sign shall be higher than 35 feet in the C-N, C-1 Districts, nor
higher than 40 feet in the C-2, C-M, EZ-1, —1, —2 and —3 Districts unless
specifically exempted elsewhere in this section.
      (3)   No freestanding sign shall encroach into a required yard.
      (4)   When a freestanding sign is allowed at the front or street side
property line, such sign shall not exceed 20 feet in height. For each 1.5 feet
setback from the front or street side property line, whichever is nearest to
the sign, the maximum height may increase 6 inches. However, no portion of a
sign within 5 feet of the front or street side property line may be closer than
10 feet to the ground, except for directional signs of the dimensions allowed
in these regulations. In no case shall a freestanding sign exceed 35 feet in
height except as noted above.
      (5)   The maximum area of 1 face of any freestanding sign shall not
exceed in square feet the following percentage of the square of the maximum
sign height:
         (a)   12% in the C-N Neighborhood Commercial District.
         (b)   16% in the C-1, C-2 and C-M Commercial Districts.
         (c)   20% in the EZ-1, M—1, M—2 and M—3 Industrial Districts.
      (6)   No sign shall have more than 4 faces.
      (7)   A lot fronting only on 1 street shall have not more than 1
freestanding sign except as allowed by division (9) below.
      (8)   A lot fronting on two public streets shall be allowed to have 2
freestanding signs. If 2 signs are to be used the total maximum combined area
of the 2 signs shall not exceed the maximum sign area of the 1 freestanding
sign allowed on lots fronting on only 1 public street.
      (9)   The maximum area of each face of a freestanding sign as calculated
by division (5) hereof may be increased by 20% if the sign is located on a lot
with more than 300 feet of frontage on a public street, by 35% if the sign is
located on a lot with more than 450 feet of frontage on a public street and by
50% if the sign is located on a lot with more than 600 feet of frontage on a
public street. In the alternative, a lot with more than 450 feet of frontage
shall be allowed up to 2 additional freestanding signs.  If 2 additional signs
are chosen, 1 must be utilized for no less than 50% tenant identification.  The
second additional sign will not be allowed if the building on the lot displays
any business signs on the facades.
      (10)    No lot shall have a freestanding sign unless the building
situated on that lot is set back at least 15 feet from the front and street
side property line.
   (D)   Freestanding directional signs. Freestanding directional signs, i.e.,
signs used primarily to direct on premise vehicular or pedestrian circulation
of traffic, are allowed to a maximum height of 3 feet, with a maximum area of 5
square feet. Such signs shall not be counted toward the number of freestanding
signs allowed on a lot. One single faced “menu board” type sign is allowed for
a “drive through” facility and shall not be counted toward the number of
freestanding signs allowed, provided the sign is no larger than 16 square feet.
   (E)   Projecting signs. Buildings on lots which contain no freestanding sign
(other than a freestanding directional sign) may not have more than 1 sign
which projects perpendicularly from the facade (but not the roof) of the
building providing that the sign does not exceed 32 square feet in area, does
not extend below 9 feet above the ground or sidewalk, or more than 7 feet from
the facade of the building, or closer than 5 feet to the abutting roadway.
   (F)   OTF District. Illuminated or non-illuminated business signs are
allowed in the OTF District subject to the following restrictions:
      (1)   One freestanding sign is allowed for each motel or hotel, which
sign shall not exceed 30 square feet in area and shall not exceed a height of
ten  feet above ground.
      (2)   In addition, freestanding directional signs subject to the
requirements of §
151.39(D) are allowed.
   (G)   PRO and PEC Districts. Signs erected in the PRO and PEC Districts
shall be subject to the following regulations:
      (1)   Individual business signs facing each bordering street shall be
limited in total surface area to three square feet for each linear foot of
street frontage of the lot, provided that such sign shall not exceed a maximum
of 300 square feet. Directional signs may be erected but shall not exceed 12
square feet in area.
      (2)   One Industrial Park identification sign shall be allowed on each
street on which the Industrial Park fronts and shall not exceed a maximum of
300 square feet in area.
      (3)   Advertising signs are prohibited.
      (4)   No sign in the PRO and PEC Districts shall have flashing or
intermittent illumination.
   (H)   W-3 District. One business sign for each business site located in the
W-3 District is allowed provided that such sign shall not exceed 300 square
feet in area or 35 feet in height and shall be made a part of the architectural
design of the building or the landscape development of the site. In addition,
freestanding directional signs subject to the requirements of §
151.39(D) are allowed.
   (I)   Special provisions.
      (1)   A single use building may have one attached sign furnishing
emergency telephone numbers or other such emergency information. Such a sign
shall not be counted toward the number of attached signs allowed provided it
does not exceed one square foot in area. Multiple use buildings may have 1 such
emergency sign for each independent use.
      (2)   A sign in a gasoline service station identifying a self-service
and/or full service pump island may be attached to canopy supports or light
standards over a pump island at a height greater than the 3 feet allowed for
other directional signs, provided the area of such a sign does not exceed 5
square feet.
§ 151.39  MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   No sign or other advertising structure shall be inadequately
maintained so as to show evidence of deterioration, including peeling, rust,
dirt, fading, discoloration or holes.
   (B)   No permit is required for repair, repainting or maintenance which does
not entail structural change.
§ 151.40  OBSTRUCTIONS TO DOORS, WINDOWS OR FIRE ESCAPES.
   No sign or other advertising structure shall be erected, relocated or
maintained so as to prevent free ingress to or egress from any door, window or
fire escape. No sign of any kind shall be attached to a stand pipe or fire
escape.
§ 151.41  UNSAFE SIGNS.
   No sign or other advertising structure shall constitute a hazard to safety
or health by reason of inadequate design, construction, repair or maintenance.
§ 151.42  OBSCENE SIGNS.
   No sign or other advertising structure shall display any matter in which the
dominant theme of the material taken as a whole appeals to a prurient interest
in sex, or is patently offensive because it affronts contemporary community
standards relating to the description or representation of sexual matters, and
is utterly without redeeming social value.
§ 151.43  PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (A)   V-Shaped signs and/or sandwich boards.
   (B)   Off-premise signs. This shall mean any sign which is not located on
the premises that it advertises or identifies.
   (C)   Trailer or mobile signs.
   (D)   Outdated and/or abandoned signs.
   (E)   Pennants, festoons, search lights (except as allowed in §
151.40(H)).
   (F)   Snipe signs (a temporary sign or poster affixed to a tree, fence and
the like).
   (G)   Inflatable devices.
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
151.55  PERMITS NOT ISSUED FOR SIGNS NOT IN COMPLIANCE.
   Subsequent to the effective date of this chapter, no new erection permits
shall be issued by the authorized city official within the city for signage
which does not comply with the requirements of this chapter.
§ 151.56  NOTICE; REMOVAL.
   If the authorized city official finds that any sign or other advertising
structure is prohibited by the provisions of this chapter the authorized city
official shall give written notice to the permittee or the owner of the
property upon which the structure is located. If the permittee or owner fails
to remove or alter the structure so as to comply with the standards set forth
in this chapter within ten days after such notice, the authorized city official
may undertake such removal or alteration as is necessary to bring the structure
into compliance and assess the costs to the permittee or owner.  The authorized
city official may cause any sign or other advertising structure which presents
an immediate peril to persons or property to be removed or altered immediately
and without notice.
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be subject to a fine not
exceeding $500. Each day such violation is committed, or permitted to continue,
shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 152:  MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
Section
   
152.01   Kitchen and bathroom equipment and facilities
   
152.02   Heat and heating equipment
   
152.03   Electrical facilities
   
152.04   Light and ventilation
   
152.05   Means of access and egress
   
152.06   Garbage and rubbish disposal facilities
   
152.07   Protection from insects, rodents and pests
   
152.08   General maintenance
   
152.09   Responsibility
   
152.10   Transfer of responsibility
   
152.11   Violation
   
152.12   Notice
§ 152.01  KITCHEN AND BATHROOM EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES.
   No person shall occupy as an owner-occupant or shall let to another for
occupancy any dwelling or dwelling unit which does not comply with the
following minimum standards for kitchen and bathroom equipment facilities:
   (A)   Kitchen sink.  Every dwelling unit shall contain within its walls a
kitchen sink in good working condition.
   (B)   Cooking equipment.  Every piece of cooking equipment which is supplied
or used by an owner, operator or occupant shall be so constructed and installed
that it will function safely and effectively, and shall be maintained in sound
working condition.  Portable cooking equipment employing flame, and cooking
equipment using gasoline or kerosene as fuel for cooking are prohibited;
provided, however, that this sub-section shall not apply to fondue dishes,
chafing dishes or other similar portable cooking equipment.
   (C)   Bathroom facilities.
      (1)   Every dwelling unit shall contain within its walls a room separate
from the habitable rooms, which shall afford privacy to any occupant thereof
and which shall be equipped with a flushing water toilet and a lavatory basin
in good working condition.
      (2)   Every dwelling unit shall contain within its walls a room, seperate
from the habitable rooms which shall afford privacy to any occupant thereof and
which shall be equipped with a bathtub or shower in good working condition.
Such a room may be the same as required by this division (C) above.
   (D)   Water, hot, water and sewer connections.  Every kitchen sink, lavatory
basin and bathtub or shower required by this section shall be properly
connected with and supplied by both hot and cold water lines.  The hot water
lines shall be connected with supplied water-heating facilities which are
capable of heating water to such a temperature as to permit an adequate amount
of hot water to be drawn at every required kitchen sink, lavatory basin and
bathtub or shower even when the heating facilities required by these rules and
regulations are not in operation.  All plumbing fixtures required by these
rules and regulations shall be properly connected to an approved water system
and to an approved sewerage system. All water and sewer connections required by
this division shall conform to all applicable requirements by these rules
regulations.
   (E)   Maintenance.  All equipment, facilities and connecting plumbing
required by this section shall be maintained in a good, safe, sanitary and
workable condition.
(Ord. passed 8-13-1979)
§ 152.02  HEAT AND HEATING EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall occupy as an owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy
any dwelling or dwelling unit which does not comply with the following minimum
standards for heat and heating equipment.
   (A)   Heating equipment and capacity. Every dwelling unit shall have heating
equipment which conforms to all applicable provisions of rules and regulations
and which is capable of safely and adequately maintaining an average
temperature of 70°F in all habitable rooms, bathrooms and water closet
compartments when the outdoor temperature is -10°F without forcing the
equipment to operate in excess of its design and capacity.  Appliances designed
primarily for cooking or water heating purposes shall not be considered as
heating facilities within the meaning of this section. Portable heating
equipment employing flame, and the use of gasoline or kerosene or any liquid
petroleum gas as a fuel does not meet the requirements of this section and is
prohibited.
   (B)   Supply of heat. The owner or operator of any dwelling or dwelling unit
who lets the dwelling or dwelling unit under an agreement, express or implied,
to supply heat to the occupants thereof shall supply, without the undue
restrictions of ventilation as to interfere with proper sanitary conditions, to
provide a minimum temperature in all habitable rooms, bathrooms and water
closet compartments of 68°F from 6:30 a.m. to 10:30 p.m. and a minimum
temperature of 65°F at all other times.  The temperatures shall be averaged
throughout the dwelling or dwelling unit.
   (C)   Written notice required. Written notice of any complaint concerning
lack of heat in the dwelling unit shall first be given to the owner or operator
by certified mail, return receipt requested, before violation of this section
shall be deemed to exist.
   (D)   Causes beyond control of owner or operator. Failure to furnish the
heat required by this section shall not constitute an offense when it is due to
a breakdown of the heating plant (unless such breakdown has been caused by a
violation of these rules and regulations), nor where it is due to strikes, to a
general shortage of fuel, to any act of the occupant who makes the complaint,
or to any cause beyond the owner’s or operator’s control.
   (E)   Determination of average temperature. To determine if a violation of
this section has occured, the city shall cause temperature readings to be made
by a means of a standard Fahrenheit thermometer in not less than 2 rooms, or if
the unit consists of only 1 room at or near the extremes as practicable, the
thermometer to be placed at a point not less than 4 feet nor more than 6 feet
away from any door window and 3 feet above the floor.
   (F)   Maintenance.  All equipment and facilities and connecting fuel lines
required by this section shall be maintained in a good, safe and workable
condition.
(Ord. passed 8-13-1979)
§ 152.03  ELECTRICAL FACILITIES.
   No person shall occupy as an owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy
any dwelling or dwelling unit, which does not comply with the following minimum
standards for electrical facilities:
   (A)   Electrical service, convenience outlets and fixtures. Every dwelling,
dwelling unit and habitable room shall be supplied with electrical service,
convenience outlets and fixtures in accordance with applicable requirements of
these rules and regulations.
   (B)   Maintenance.  All outlets, fixtures and connecting electrical lines
required by this section shall be maintained in a good, safe and workable
condition.
(Ord. passed 8-13-1979)
§ 152.04  LIGHT AND VENTILATION.
   No person shall occupy as an owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy
any dwelling or dwelling unit, which does not comply with the following minimum
standards for light and ventilation:
   (A)   General standards.  Every dwelling, dwelling unit and habitable room
shall be supplied with light and ventilation in accordance with all applicable
provisions of these rules and regulations.
   (B)   Maintenance.  All facilities and equipment required by this section
for natural, artificial or mechanical lighting or ventilation shall be
maintained in good, safe and workable condition.
(Ord. passed 8-13-1979)
§ 152.05  MEANS OF ACCESS AND EGRESS.
   No person shall occupy as an owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy
any dwelling or dwelling unit for the purpose of living therein, which does not
comply with the following minimum standards for access and egress.
   (A)   General standards.  Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall be supplied
with the means of access and egress in accordance with the requirements of
these rules and regulations.
   (B)   Maintenance and obstructions.  All means of access and egress required
by this section shall be maintained so as to provide safe and convenient access
to an egress from the dwelling or dwelling unit which they serve and shall be
kept free from any obstruction of any nature whatsoever.
(Ord. passed 8-13-1979)
§ 152.06  GARBAGE AND RUBBISH DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   No person shall occupy as an owner-occupant to let to another for occupancy
any dwelling or dwelling unit which does not comply with the following minimum
standards for garbage and rubbish disposal facilities:
   (A)   Facilities to be supplied.  Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall be
supplied with facilities for the temporary storage and disposal of garbage and
rubbish as required by these rules and regulations.
   (B)   Maintenance.  The facilities required by division (A) above shall be
maintained in a good, non-leakable condition, capable of being tightly sealed,
and as clean as possible.
   (C)   Disposal and storage of garbage and rubbish. The disposal and storage
of garbage and rubbish shall be in accordance with all applicable provisions of
these rules and regulations and all premises shall be kept free from any
debris, object, material or condition which may create a health, accident or
fire hazard, or which is a public nuisance, or which constitutes a blighting or
deteriorating influence on the neighborhood.
(Ord. passed 8-13-1979)
§ 152.07  PROTECTION FROM INSECTS, RODENTS AND PESTS.
   (A)   No person shall occupy as an owner-occupant or let to another for
occupancy any dwelling or dwelling unit which does not comply with the
following minimum standards for the protection from insects, rodents and pests:
   (B)   Every dwelling, dwelling unit and its premises shall be maintained
free of conditions conducive to the breeding of or infestation by rodents,
insects or pests.
(Ord. passed 8-13-1979)
§ 152.08  GENERAL MAINTENANCE.
   No person shall occupy as an owner-occupant of let to another for occupancy
any dwelling or dwelling unit which does not comply with the following minimum
standards for general maintenance.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   All dwellings and dwelling units and all parts thereof, both
exterior and interior, shall be maintained in good repair and shall be capable
of performing the function for which they or any fixture thereof were designed
or intended to be used.
      (2)   Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or utility which is
required under these rules and regulations and every chimney and smoke pipe,
shall be so constructed and installed that it will function safely and
effectively, and shall be maintained in sound working condition.
      (3)   No owner, operator or occupant shall cause any service facility,
equipment or utility which is required under these rules and regulations to be
removed or shut off from or discontinued from any occupied dwelling or dwelling
unit let or occupied by him or her, except such temporary interruptions as may
be necessary while actual repairs or alterations are in process, or during
temporary emergencies when discontinuance of the service is approved by the
city.
   (B)   Foundations, exterior walls and roofs.  Every foundation, exterior
wall and roof of every dwelling and every accessory structure shall be
substantially weather-tight, water-tight and rodent-proof; shall be capable of
affording privacy; shall be kept in sound condition and good repair; shall be
kept free of all holes or breaks, and of loose or rotting boards, timbers,
brick, stones and other structural material; and shall be safe to use and
capable of supporting the load which normal use may cause to be placed thereon.
   (C)   Exterior surfaces. All exterior surfaces of any dwelling or accessory
structure shall be reasonably capable of withstanding the effects of the
elements and decay. Any exterior surface which is deteriorated, decaying,
disintegrating or which is weathered with dirt and grime or which has lost its
capability to reasonably withstand the effects of the elements and decay
through peeling or flaking of the paint of other protective coating, shall be
repaired, repainted or resurfaced.
   (D)   Exterior repairs and maintenance to harmonize with existing exterior. 
Whenever repair, replacement or maintenance of exterior walls or roofs is
required to comply with divisions (B) and (C) above, the repair, replacement or
maintenance shall be undertaken so as to match, conform and be consistant with
the existing exterior, and shall comply with all applicable provisions of these
rules and regulations and the ordinances of the city.
   (E)   Windows and exterior doors. Every window, window screen, exterior
door, exterior door-screen and hatchway shall be substantially weather-tight,
water-tight, wind-tight and rodent-proof; shall be equipped with all
appropriated hardware; shall be capable of being easily opened unless designed
to be fixed; and shall be kept in good repair.
   (F)   Floors, bathroom floors. All floors shall be substantially rodent-
proof; be free of holes,  cracks, and loose, protruding, warped or rotting
floor boards which might constitute a possible accident hazard. Every water
closet compartment floor surface and bathroom floor surface shall be
constructed and maintained so as to be reasonably impervious to water and so as
to permit the floor to be easily kept in a clean and sanitary condition.  Where
the floor surfaces exist they may be overlaid with carpeting designed and
intended for use in bathrooms.
   (G)   Interior walls and ceilings.  Every interior wall and ceiling shall be
substantially rodent-proof; shall be free of holes and large cracks and any
flaking, peeling, loose or deteriorated paint, plaster, wall board, paneling or
other material; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load
which normal use may cause to be placed thereon.  No lead-base paint shall be
applied to any interior wall or ceiling.  Bathroom and kitchen walls shall have
water-proof surfaces where necessary to prevent damage.
   (H)   Stairways and porches.  Every inside and outside stairway and porch
and every appurtenance thereto shall be maintained in a good state of repair
and free from rotting, loose or deteriorating supports, rails, floors and
stairs so as to be safe to use and capable of supporting the loads that normal
use may cause to be placed thereon.
   (I)   Accessory structures.  All garages, tool sheds and all other accessory
structures shall be in good repair so as not to be unsafe or become a harborage
for rats, other rodents and insects. Fences and roadside mailboxes shall be
maintained in good repair, solid and in the same condition required for other
exterior surfaces.  Television antennae shall be firmly and securely fastened
to the dwelling and shall be maintained in good repair.
   (J)   Accumulation of debris. The interior areas of dwellings and dwelling
units, including basements, attics and other storage areas, and the premises
and accessory buildings associated therewith, shall be maintained free of any
debris, object, material or condition which does or may create a hazard to the
health or safety of any persons, is conducive to infestation, presents a fire
hazard or constitutes a blighting or deteriorating influence on the
neighborhood.
   (K)   Vegetation.
      (1)   No premises shall contain uncontrolled growths of vegetation and
all trees, hedges and other planting shall be kept trimmed so as to avoid
interference with persons or vehicles passing on public ways, easements or
adjoining private property.
      (2)   All landscaping, including, but not limited to grass, trees,
shrubbery, flowers and hedges are to be kept in a neat appearance and trimmed
so as not to be a blight and deteriorating influence on the community as a
whole. Lawns are to be mowed and trimmed.  Grass is not to be allowed to grow
greater than 3 in height without being mowed and trimmed.
   (L)   Driveways and walkways.
      (1)   Cement or asphalt driveways, walkways and parking areas shall be
maintained free of loose or broken material and cracks shall be repaired as
necessary to avoid safety hazards and accidents.
      (2)   Stone or dirt driveways, walkways and parking areas shall be
maintained in forms designed to prevent the spread of stone and dirt to public
ways, easements and adjoining property.
   (M)   Gutters and downspouts.  All gutters and downspouts shall be securely
and firmly fastened to the dwelling, shall be maintained free of debris which
might prevent their proper functioning and shall not be allowed to discharge in
the manner which might create unnecessary erosion.
(Ord. passed 8-13-1979)
§ 152.09  RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Every owner or operator of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall:
      (1)   Comply with all duties imposed on him or her by these rules and
regulations and the ordinances and the city;
      (2)   Maintain in a clean, sanitary and safe condition the shared or
public areas of the dwelling and premises, including parkways, and maintain and
repair any equipment or facilities which the owner or operator supplies or is
required to supply pursuant to rules and regulations herein set out and the
ordinances of the city;
      (3)   Exterminate any insects, rodents or other pests in any dwelling
unit if infestation is caused by the failure of the owner or operator to
maintain the dwelling in a rodent-proof and reasonably insect-proof condition,
and to exterminate the pests in the dwelling regardless of the cause of
infestation; and
      (4)   Supply and maintain facilities for the temporary storage and
disposal of garbage and rubbish and provide for the collection of garbage and
rubbish from the premises.
   (B)   Every occupant of a dwelling shall:
      (1)   Comply with all duties imposed on him by these rules and
regulations and the ordinances of the city;
      (2)   Maintain in a clean and sanitary condition its dwelling, dwelling
unit or premises which he occupies and controls;
      (3)   Keep all supplied facilities, including plumbing fixtures and
cooking and refrigeration equipment, in a clean an sanitary condition and
exercise reasonable care in their proper use and operation;
      (4)   Dispose of all garbage and rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner
by placing it in approved storage or disposal facilities which are safe and
sanitary;  (Every occupant shall provide such facilities for and within his
dwelling unit and shall maintain them in a clean and sanitary manner.)
      (5)   Be responsible for the extermination of insects, rodents and pests
in his or her dwelling except when the owner or operator is responsible under
these rules and regulations and the ordinances of the city; and
      (6)   Not place on the premises any material which casese a fire hazard,
or otherwise endangers the life, health or safety of any occupant of such
dwelling or constitutes a blighting or deteriorating influence on the premises
or neighborhood, nor place in storage on the premises any furniture, equipment
or material which harbors insects, rodents or other pests or is conducive to
infestation.
(Ord. passed 8-13-1979)
§ 152.10  TRANSFER OF RESPONSIBILITY.
   A contract effective as between owner and operator or operator and occupant
or owner and occupant with the regard to compliance hereunder shall not relieve
any party of his or her direct responsibility under these rules and regulations
and the ordinances of the city.
(Ord. passed 8-13-1979)
§ 152.11  VIOLATION.
   Any violation of these rules and regulations permits the city to perform any
repair, replacement, clean-up, painting or any other remedial act necessary to
bring the subject premises up to the standards set out in these rules and
regulations and any other ordinances of the city.  The remedial acts or repairs
are to be done at the cost to the owner of the property and will constitute a
lien against the property.
(Ord. passed 8-13-1979)
§ 152.12  NOTICE.
   Before any remedial act is performed by the city, he or she shall first give
notice to the owner and occupant(s) of the property by registered or certified
mail. The notice shall set forth the violation and the remedial steps needed to
be taken. Failure to take appropriate remedial steps within 14 days after
receipt of the notice shall permit the city to cause the remedial measures to
be taken by the city.
(Ord. passed 8-13-1979)
CHAPTER 153:  ZONING
Section
   
153.01   Annexations; application of zoning regulations
§ 153.01  ANNEXATIONS; APPLICATION OF ZONING REGULATIONS.
   From and after June 1, 1962, all real estate which may have been heretofore
annexed by the city or which may be annexed by the city after June 1, 1962, and
which shall have become or which may become a part of the city, shall upon such
annexation assume and take that character of zoning which had governed the uses
to which the property might be put prior to its annexation as a result of any
action by the Louisville and Jefferson County Planning and Zoning Commission.
Any use permitted by the zoning regulations of the Louisville and Jefferson
County Planning and Zoning Commission, applicable to the property, prior to any
such annexation to the city, shall be permitted subsequent to any such
annexation.
(Ord. 31, Series 1963, passed 5-20-1963)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
TABLE I:  FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.                  Date Passed Description
8, Series 1960            9-19-1960   Construction franchise between the city
                                      and a company
                                      Street resurfacing agreement between the
–                       8-21-1971   city and K.A. Barker Construction
                                      Company, Inc.
–                       - -1979     Adopting and approving the contract
                                      between the city and Jefferson County
118, Series 1979          8-20-1979   Cable television franchise
                                      Cable television franchise between the
130, Series 1980          5-19-1980   city and Storer Communications of
                                      Jefferson County, Inc.
                                      Ratifying contract between the city and
Res. –                  3-16-1981   the City of Rolling Hills for police
                                      services
1, Series 1981            4-20-1981   Execution of an interlocal agreement
                                      between the city and Rolling Hills
244, Series 1994          7-25-1994   Agreement for sale of sewer plant
                                      properties
246, Series 1994          11-28-1994  Interlocal agreement between the city and
                                      Graymoor-Devondale for police patrols
                                      Renewal and amendment of community
273, Series 1997          11-24-1997  antenna television franchise agreement
                                      with TCI TKR of Jefferson County, Inc.
                                      Approval of interlocal agreement between
Res. 1, Series 2000- 2001 7-24-2000   the city and Graymoor- Devondale for
                                      police patrols
                                      Cooperation agreement between the city
Res. –                  7-22-2002   and Jefferson County relating to The
                                      Housing and Community Development Act of
                                      1974
Ord. 4, Series 2005       7-14-2005   Establishing terms for certain franchises
                                      Extending the franchise agreement for
Ord. 5, Series 2015       9-23-2015   community antenna television (CATV)
                                      services of Insight Kentucky Partners II
                                      L.P.
                                      Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a
Ord. 5, Series 2016       6-27-2016   non-exclusive uniform franchise agreement
                                      with Google Fiber for telecommunications
                                      services
                                     
 
TABLE II:  ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.         Date Passed Description
3, Series 1960   8-15-1960   Proposing an annex of land
4, Series 1960   8-15-1960   Proposing an annex of land
6, Series 1960   9-19-1960   Annexing land
7, Series 1960   9-19-1960   Annexing land
14, Series 1961  8-21-1961   Proposing an annex of land
15, Series 1961  8-21-1961   Proposing an annex of land
16, Series 1961  9-21-1961   Proposing an annex of land
17, Series 1961  9-21-1961   Annexing land
21, Series 1962  6-18-1962   Proposing an annex of land
22, Series 1962  7-19-1962   Annexing land
23, Series 1962  8-20-1962   Proposing an annex of land
24, Series 1962  8-20-1962   Proposing an annex of land
25, Series 1962  - -1962     Annexing land
26, Series 1962  9-20-1962   Annexing land
27, Series 1962  10-15-1962  Proposing an annex of land
29, Series 1962  11-19-1962  Proposing an annex of land
30, Series 1962  12-22-1962  Annexing land
34, Series 1963  7-18-1963   Annexing land
49, Series 1966  4-18-1966   Annexing land
50, Series 1966  5-26-1966   Annexing land
61, Series 1967  9-18-1967   Proposing an annex of land
72, Series 1969  5-20-1969   Annexing land
121, Series 1979 9-17-1979   Annexing land
123, Series 1979 10-15-1979  Proposing an annex of land
124, Series 1979 10-15-1979  Proposing an annex of land
125, Series 1979 11-19-1979  Repealing part of Ord. 124, Series 1979
150, Series 1983 - -1983     Proposing an annex of land
151, Series 1983 6-20-1983   Proposing an annex of land
153, Series 1983 8-30-1983   Annexing land
157, Series 1983 8-30-1983   Annexing land
                            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Cites Code Section
KRS Cites               Code Section
KY Const. § 43         33.04
6.050                   32.48
6.955 to 6.975          33.04
Ch. 13A                 93.02
18A.225                 113.03
41.240                  33.30
41.240(4)               33.05,
                        33.30
42.450 to 42.495        33.04
43.050                  33.04
Ch. 61                  32.21
61.810                  36.23
61.870 - 61.883         31.36
61.870                  34.01
61.870 et seq.          36.26
61.872-61.884           36.10
61.870 - 61.884         34.17
61.872(4)               34.06
61.872(5)               34.07
61.872(6)               34.08
61.874(1) - (3)         34.12
61.874(3), (4)          34.13
61.874(5)               34.14
61.874(6)               34.14
61.878                  34.01,
                        34.16
61.878(1)               34.16
61.880                  34.09
61.880(1)               34.16
61.884                  34.11
62.060                  31.01
65.120                  Ch. 72
66.480                  33.30
66.660                  91.06
82.082                  36.03
Ch. 83A                 31.20
83A.010(3)              10.02
83A.010(6)              10.02
83A.010(8)              10.02
83A.030(1)              30.02
83A.040(1), (2), (6)    31.21
83A.040(2)(c)           31.21
83A.040(2)(d)           31.21
83A.040(3)              31.21
83A.040(4)              32.01
83A.040(5)              32.02
83A.040(6)              32.02
83A.040(7)              31.21,
                        32.02
83A.040(8)              31.21,
                        32.02
83A.040(9)              31.03
83A.050                 31.20
83A.060                 36.28
83A.060(1)              32.35
83A.060(2)              32.36
83A.060(3)              32.37
83A.060(4), (7)         32.38
83A.060(5)              32.40
83A.060(6)              32.22
83A.060(8)              32.41,
                        32.42
83A.060(9)              32.43
83A.060(10)             32.44
83A.060(11)             32.45
83A.060(12), (13)       32.45
83A.060(14)             32.47
83A.060(15)             32.48
83A.070                 31.02
83A.075                 31.02
83A.080                 31.35,
                        36.04
83A.080(1), (3)         31.35
83A.080(3)              31.03
83A.080 (4), (5)        31.20
83A.085(3) (d) - (f)    31.36
83A.087                 31.38
83A.090                 10.18
83A.130                 31.21
83A.130(1)              30.01
83A.130(2)              30.02
83A.130(3)              31.21
83A.130(4)              31.21
83A.130(5)              32.20
83A.130(6)              32.39
83A.130(7)              31.21
83A.130(8)              31.21
83A.130(9)              31.21
83A.130(10)             31.21
83A.130(11)             32.03,
                        32.21
83A.130(12)             32.03
83A.130(13)             32.03
83A.175                 32.02
91A.010                 33.01
91A.010(8)              10.02
91A.020                 33.02
91A.030                 33.03
91A.040                 33.04
91A.050                 33.04
91A.060                 33.05,
                        33.30
91A.080(2)              113.02
91A.080(8)              113.04,
                        113.05
91A.080(6) - (11)       113.03
91A.080(9)              113.04
91A.080(10)             113.03
91A.080(13)             113.03
91A.200                 33.11
91A.210                 33.10
91A.220                 33.11
91A.230                 33.12
91A.240                 33.12
91A.250                 33.14
91A.260                 33.15
91A.270                 33.16
91A.280                 33.17
91A.290                 33.18
92.330                  110.21
Ch. 107                 33.11
Ch. 116 - 121           31.20
131.010(6)              113.04
132.285                 35.01
134.800                 35.04
134.810                 35.04
Ch. 154                 34.16
174.100                 91.15
174.100(1)              91.15
174.100(2), (3)         91.17
174.100(4)              91.18
174.100(5)              91.19
174.100(6), (7)         91.20
177.830 through 177.890 151.35
178.290                 91.06
186.042                 72.14
186A.190                72.22
189.020                 71.27
189.290                 71.25
189.330(8)              71.02
189.338                 70.15
189.450(5), (6)         72.03
189.580                 71.15
189.725                 72.08
189.930                 71.25
189.990(1)              72.99
189.993(8)              71.99
Ch. 198B                150.02
198B.990(1)             150.99
226.010                 112.01
226.020                 112.02
226.030                 112.07
226.040                 112.03
226.050                 112.04
226.060                 112.08
226.070                 112.03
226.080                 112.05
226.090                 112.06
226.100                 112.08
226.990(1)              112.99
226.990(3)              112.99
227.700                 93.01
227.702                 93.01
227.704                 93.01
227.706                 93.01
227.708                 93.01
227.710                 93.02
227.715                 93.03
227.715(6) - (8)        93.03
227.720                 93.04
227.730                 93.05
227.750                 93.06
227.990(1)              150.99
227.990(4)              93.99
257.100                 90.06
257.100(4)              90.01
Ch. 258                 90.24
Ch. 281                 72.21
304.17B-005             113.03
318.990                 150.99
376.275(1), (2)         72.21
376.275(3)              72.22
381.770                 92.18
                        32.43,
Ch. 424                 33.04,
                        33.14,
                        33.15
424.220                 33.04
436.600                 90.99
436.600                 90.04
446.010(1)              10.02
446.010(2)              10.02
446.010(9)              10.02
446.010(10)             10.02
446.010(12)             10.02
446.010(13)             10.02
446.010(14)             10.02
446.010(15)             10.02
446.010(17)             10.02
446.010(18)             10.02
446.010(23)             10.02
446.010(25)             10.02
446.010(26)             10.02
446.010(27)             10.02
446.010(28)             10.02
446.010(30)             10.02
446.010(31)             10.02
446.010(33)             10.02
446.010(37)             10.02
446.010(39)             10.02
446.010(43)             10.02
446.010(46)             10.02
446.010(47)             10.02
446.010(49)             10.02
446.020(1)              10.03
446.020(2)              10.03
446.030                 10.04
446.050                 10.05
446.060                 10.06
446.080(1)              10.03
446.080(3)              10.03
446.080(4)              10.03
446.090                 10.07
446.100                 10.08
446.110                 10.09
446.140                 10.01
525.125                 90.03
525.130                 90.03,
                        90.99
                        
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
 
Res. No.            Date Passed  Code Section
–                 3-16-1981      TSO Table I
1, Series 2000-2001 7-24-2000      TSO Table I
–                 7-22-2002      TSO Table I
                                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.            Date Passed Description
-                   - -         33.30-33.32
3, Series 1960      8-15-1960   TSO Table II
4, Series 1960      8-15-1960   TSO Table II
6, Series 1960      9-19-1960   TSO Table II
7, Series 1960      9-19-1960   TSO Table II
8, Series 1960      9-19-1960   TSO Table II
14, Series 1961     8-21-1961   TSO Table II
15, Series 1961     8-21-1961   TSO Table II
16, Series 1961     9-21-1961   TSO Table II
17, Series 1961     9-21-1961   TSO Table II
21, Series 1962     6-18-1962   TSO Table II
22, Series 1962     7-19-1962   TSO Table II
23, Series 1962     8-20-1962   TSO Table II
24, Series 1962     8-20-1962   TSO Table II
25, Series 1962     - -1962     TSO Table II
26, Series 1962     9-20-1962   TSO Table II
27, Series 1962     10-15-1962  TSO Table II
29, Series 1962     11-19-1962  TSO Table II
30, Series 1962     12-22-1962  TSO Table II
31, Series 1963     5-20-1963   153.01
32, Series 1963     6-17-1963   TSO Table II
33, Series 1963     7-15-1963   71.28,
                                71.99
34, Series 1963     7-18-1963   TSO Table II
43                  9-20-1965   70.06,
                                70.99
49, Series 1966     4-18-1966   TSO Table II
50, Series 1966     5-26-1966   TSO Table II
61, Series 1967     9-18-1967   TSO Table II
72, Series 1969     5-20-1969   TSO Table II
76, Series 1976     3-16-1970   92.03,
                                92.99
–                 8-21-1971   TSO Table I
91, Series 1974     8-19-1974   92.01
95, Series 1975     - -         73.99
95, Series 1975     3-17-1975   70.07
96, Series 1975     3-17-1975   36.01
104, Series 1976    7-19-1976   92.02,
                                92.99
–                 - -1979     TSO Table I
-                   8-13-1979   152.01-
                                152.12
118, Series 1979    8-20-1979   TSO Table I
121, Series 1979    9-17-1979   TSO Table II
123, Series 1979    10-15-1979  TSO Table II
124, Series 1979    10-15-1979  TSO Table II
125, Series 1979    11-19-1979  TSO Table II
130, Series 1980    5-19-1980   TSO Table I
1, Series 1981      4-20-1981   TSO Table I
150, Series 1983    - -1983     TSO Table II
151, Series 1983    6-20-1983   TSO Table II
153, Series 1983    8-30-1983   TSO Table II
157, Series 1983    8-30-1983   TSO Table II
159, Series 1984    3-19-1984   72.13,
                                72.99
166, Series 1984    - -         72.14,
                                72.99
244, Series 1994    7-25-1994   TSO Table I
246, Series 1994    11-28-1994  TSO Table I
                                36.01-
248, Series 1994    12-19-1994  36.28,
                                36.99
273, Series 1997    11-24-1997  TSO Table I
                                92.15-
3, Series 2003-2004 10-9-2003   92.19,
                                92.99
4, Series 2003-2004 10-9-2003   31.38
6, Series 2003-2004 10-9-2003   31.37
                                93.35-
7, Series 2003-2004 3-11-2004   93.38,
                                93.99
4, Series 2005      7-14-2005   TSO Table I
                                110.20 -
5, Series 2005-2006 9-8-2005    110.32,
                                110.99
                                110.20 -
6, Series 2005-2006 12-8-2005   110.32,
                                110.99
3, Series 2006-2007 11-9-2006   90.23,
                                90.24
3, Series 2007-2008 8-9-2007    150.01
4, Series 2007-2008 4-10-2008   73.01 -
                                73.04
                                95.01 -
5, Series 2007-2008 5-8-2008    95.04,
                                95.99
9, Series 2009-2010 6-17-2010   Ch. 75, Sch. II
4, Series 2010      11-18-2010  Adopting Ordinance
5, Series 2010      12-16-2010  32.21
4, Series 2011-2012 6-23-2011   91.34,
                                91.99
                                93.35-
5, Series 2011-2012 11-23-2011  93.38,
                                93.99
                                93.35-
5, Series 2013      3-26-2013   93.38,
                                93.99
4, Series 2014-2015 5-28-2014   72.35
5, Series 2015      9-23-2015   TSO Table I
6, Series 2015      10-28-2015  36.16,
                                36.21
7, Series 2015      10-28-2015  33.30
5, Series 2016      6-27-2016   TSO Table I
17-06               3-22-2017   110.20,
                                110.21
                               
 
 
 
