SCOTTSVILLE, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-7 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 887-24, passed 12-20-2024; and
State legislation current through 2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
Ordinance No. 817-17
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AS AN ORDINANCE, A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF
SCOTTSVILLE, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN
EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE
CODE.
   WHEREAS, the present general ordinances of the City of Scottsville are
incomplete and inadequate and the manner of arrangement, classification and
indexing thereof is insufficient to meet the immediate needs of the City; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the Commonwealth of Kentucky empower
and authorize the Legislative Body of this City to revise, amend, restate,
codify and to compile any existing ordinance or ordinances and all new
ordinances not hereto adopted or published and to incorporate the ordinances
into one ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, the Legislative Body of the City of Scottsville has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of
a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in book form;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Legislative Body of the City of
Scottsville that:
   Section 1.   The general ordinances of the City of Scottsville as herein
revised, amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Scottsville."
   Section 2.   The Code as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the following
titles:
                  Table of Contents
         Chapter
               TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
            10.   Rules of Construction; General Penalty
               TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
            30.   General Provisions
            31.   Mayor and Council
            32.   City Organization
            33.   City Policies
            34.   Finance and Revenue
               TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
            50.   Utilities
            51.   Gas and Natural Gas
            52.   Refuse
            53.   Water and Sewer
               TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
            70.   General Provisions
            71.   Traffic Rules
            72.   Parking Regulations
            73.   Traffic Schedules
            74.   Parking Schedules
               TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
            90.   Animals
            91.   Streets, Sidewalks, and the Like
            92.   Nuisances
            93.   Cemeteries
               TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
            110.   Occupational License Tax
            111.   Permits and Licenses
            112.   Labor Practices
            113.   Adult Businesses
               TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
            130.   Curfew
               TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
            150.   Building Regulations
            151.   Flood Damage Prevention
            152.   Comprehensive Plan
            153.   Zoning Code
            154.   Historic Preservation
            155.   Cellular Antenna Towers and Wireless Transmission Stations
               TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
            I.   City Boundaries
            II.   Contracts and Agreements
            III.   Franchises
            IV.   Real Estate Transactions
            V.   Water Rights
            VI.   Street and Sidewalk Repair, Lighting, and the Like
            VII.   Street Closings
            VIII.   Street Namings; Renamings
            IX.   Annexations
            X.   Rezonings
               PARALLEL REFERENCES
            References to Kentucky Revised Statues
            References to Ordinances
   Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in the
Code shall be deemed repealed From and after the effective date of the Code,
except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in the Code;
provided that such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty
incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of the Code, nor
shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes,
appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises
or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements,
authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the
purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or accepting easements
or plats, accepting dedications of land to public use, vacating or setting the
boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal affect any
other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not
contained in or covered by the Code.
   Section 4.   The Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City Legislative Body and Clerk of the City of
Scottsville is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of the Code in the
Office of the City Clerk.
   Section 5.   The Code shall be in full force and effect from and after its
date of passage, approval and publication as required by law. The Code shall be
presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the ordinance and all
provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein contained, and of the
date of passage, and that the same is properly signed, attested, recorded and
approved, and that any public hearings and notices thereof as required by law
have been given.
   Passed this  July  day of  10th , 2017.
   Passed on First Reading  7-10-2017
   Adopted on Second Reading  8-14-2017
   Signed by Mayor                                                 
   Published in the Paper  8-31-2017
   Recorded by Clerk                                                 
                                                      
   Mayor
   ATTEST:
                                                      
   City Clerk
Ordinance No. 824-18
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF SCOTTSVILLE, KENTUCKY
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2018 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Scottsville, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Scottsville:
SECTION 1.   That the 2018 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Scottsville, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
SECTION 2.   That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval, and publication as required by law.
Passed this 10th day of September 2018.
Passed on First Reading 08-13-18
Adopted on Second Reading 09-10-18
Signed by Mayor 09-11-18
Published in Paper 09-20-18
                                    Rob H. Cline
                                    Mayor
ATTEST:
Gayle Davis
City Clerk
Ordinance No. 831-19
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF SCOTTSVILLE, KENTUCKY.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2018 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Scottsville, which supplement contains all Ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Scottsville:
SECTION 1.   That the 2019 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Scottsville, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
SECTION 2.   That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this 8th day of July 2019.
Passed on First Reading 07/08/2019
Adopted on Second Reading 08/12/2019
Signed by Mayor 08/12/2019
Published in the Paper 08/15/2019
Rob H Cline
Mayor
ATTEST:
Gayle Davis
City Clerk
Ordinance No. 876-23
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF SCOTTSVILLE, KENTUCKY.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2022-2023 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Scottsville, which supplement contains all Ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council. to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Scottsville:
SECTION 1.   That the 2022-2023 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Scottsville, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
SECTION 2.   That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this 28th day of August 2023.
Passed on First Reading 08/14/2023
Adopted on Second Reading 08/28/2023
Signed by Mayor 08/29/2023
Published in the Paper 09/07/2023
                                       David Burch
                                       Mayor
ATTEST:
Lauren Cherry
City Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the City
of Scottsville Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may
be substituted. Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute
any part of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to those
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code, shall
denote the City of Scottsville irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNCIL. The city legislative body.
(KRS 83A.010(5))
   COUNTY. Allen County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor.
(KRS 83A.010(6))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, includes all those incorporated or formed by
authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Council member.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes,
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, or camelid
species.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Scottsville, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH. (KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited PARTNERSHIPS.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban- county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers, and other persons with similar authority
to make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even-numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected, and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN. Includes affirmed in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Exists when there is an unexpired part of a term of
office without a lawful incumbent therein, when the person elected or appointed
to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has been no
election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies whether
the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the state,
county, city, or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things. (KRS
446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to that meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR NOTICE shall mean the
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include those acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part;
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council, as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment,
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to
any offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings.
   (B)   If any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any
provision of the new ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party
affected, be applied to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein.
   (B)   Any chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances
may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages.
   (C)   Subsequent ordinances as printed or omitted shall be prima facie
evidence of the subsequent ordinances until Council shall adopt a new code of
ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the
codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
bearing the latest passage date shall prevail.
   (B)   If the conflicting provisions bear the same passage date, the conflict
shall be so construed as to be consistent with the meaning or legal effect of
the questions of the subject matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error be discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any word or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the
intention of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no
meaning can be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or
words was clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be
corrected, and the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will
conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same
effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as originally
published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for- word the same as the statute. Example:
(KRS 83A.090)
   (C)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see KRS 61.870 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation, and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
Statutory references:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see KRS 83A.065
   Maximum fine for violations, see KRS 534.040(2)(c)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   MAYOR AND COUNCIL
      
32.   CITY ORGANIZATION
      
33.   CITY POLICIES
      
34.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Kentucky Law Enforcement Foundation Program Fund
   
30.02   Nonpartisan election of city officials
§ 30.01 KENTUCKY LAW ENFORCEMENT FOUNDATION PROGRAM FUND.
   (A)   It is hereby declared that the city will make application for
participation in the Commonwealth Law Enforcement Foundation Program Fund
Training Incentive Program.
   (B)   If accepted for participation in the Program, the city shall comply
with KRS 15.410 to 15.510 and all regulations of the Department of Justice
relating thereto.
(Ord. 541, passed 3-14-1977)
§ 30.02 NONPARTISAN ELECTION OF CITY OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It is the consensus of the present members of the City Council that
the best interests of the citizens of the city will be served by the
nonpartisan election of city officials.
   (B)   The election of all city officials shall be conducted in accordance
with the nonpartisan election provisions of KRS 83A.050 and KRS 83A.170.
(Ord. 574, passed 2-9-1981)
CHAPTER 31: MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Form of government
   
31.02   Governing officers
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.15   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.16   City Clerk
Mayor
   
31.30   Office of Mayor
City Council
   
31.45   Council meetings; time and place
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the “Mayor-
Council Plan.”
(KRS 83A.130(1))
§ 31.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by other officers and employees as are provided for by statute or
city ordinance.
(KRS 83A.130(2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of:
      (1)   Not less than six nor more than 12 members as prescribed by
ordinance in cities of the second, third, and fourth classes;
      (2)   Six members in cities of the fifth and sixth classes.
(KRS 83A.030(1))
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.15 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office; and
      (4)   Bond, if required.
(KRS 83A.080)
   (B)   With the exception of the Police Chief and all city police officers,
all nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of
City Council. The Police Chief and all city police officers shall be appointed
by the Mayor at will and these appointments need not be approved by City
Council.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Council at will unless
otherwise provided by state law or ordinance. Upon removal of a nonelected
officer at will, the Council shall give the officer a written statement setting
forth the reason or reasons for the removal. However, this requirement shall
not be construed as limiting in any way the at-will dismissal power of the
Council.
(KRS 83A.080(3)
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(2), (3)
§ 31.16 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   The office of City Clerk may, by ordinance, be combined with any other
nonelected city office by inclusion of the title and duties of the office.
   (C)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk shall include, but are
not limited to the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the official custodian or
custodian in accordance with KRS 61.870 to 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used;
      (4)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail or electronically
submit to the Department for Local Government a list containing current city
information including but not limited to the following:
         (a)   The correct name, telephone number, and electronic mail address
of the Mayor, Councilmembers, and the correct name, telephone number, and
electronic mail address for the city’s appointed officials or employees who are
serving in the following roles or substantially similar roles as of January 1
of each year:
            1.   City Clerk: Lauren Cherry;
            2.   City Treasurer or Chief Financial Officer: Evelina Anderson;
            3.   City Manager or Administrator;
            4.   Legal Counsel: Hallye Arterburn;
            5.   Human Resources Director: Brittany Sloan;
            6.   Police Chief: Darren Tabor;
            7.   Fire Chief: Michael Cooksey;
            8.   Public Works Director: Greg Cook;
            9.   Risk Manager;
            10.   Information Technology Manager;
            11.   Public Relations or Communications Officer; and
            12.   Planning and Zoning Administrator: Brittany Fisher.
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for City Hall, and
telephone number of City Hall which is City of Scottsville, 201 West Main
Street, 1-270-237-3238; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person who may be reached during normal business
hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., which is Lauren Cherry, City Clerk, 1-270-237-
3238.
      (5)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk by statute or ordinance.
(KRS 83A.085)
   (D)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City Council
from time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
   (E)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk unless the
person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond, if required, with corporate
surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and conditioned upon the
performance of the duties specified herein.
MAYOR
§ 31.30 OFFICE OF MAYOR.
   Effective January 1, 2015, the office of the Mayor shall be a full-time
official.
(Ord. 793-14, passed 4-14-2014)
CITY COUNCIL
§ 31.45 COUNCIL MEETINGS; TIME AND PLACE.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 83A.130(11), the times for the City Council regular
meetings shall be on the second and fourth Mondays of each month. The second
Monday meeting will be at 9:00 a.m., local time, and the fourth Monday meeting
will be at 6:00 p.m., local time.
   (B)   The meetings shall be conducted at the Council room of the City-County
Building, 201 W. Main Street, Scottsville, Kentucky. In the event the regular
meeting were to fall on a holiday, the next open business day shall constitute
as the new regular meeting date.
(Ord. 486, passed 1-3-1972; Ord. 839-21, passed 3-22-2021; Ord. 885-24, passed
7-26-2024)
CHAPTER 32: CITY ORGANIZATION
Section
Departments, Commissions, and the Like
   
32.01   Water Department
   
32.02   Planning and Zoning Commission
   
32.03   County-City Industrial Development Authority
   
32.04   Civil Defense Agency
   
32.05   Fire Department
   
32.06   Scottsville-Allen County Visitors Bureau
Officers and Other City Employees
   
32.20   City Cemeteries Superintendent
   
32.21   Gas Department employees
   
32.22   City Clerk
   
32.23   City Treasurer
Police Department
   
32.45   Conceal carry
   
32.46   Salary supplement for police officers
   
32.47   Police Department and Fire Chief; duties, rank, and the like
   
32.48   Vehicle lights
Code Enforcement Board
   
32.65   Definitions
   
32.66   Creation and membership
   
32.67   Enforcement powers
   
32.68   Appointment of members; term of office; removal from office; oath;
compensation
   
32.69   Organization of Board; meetings; quorum
   
32.70   Conflict of interest
   
32.71   Powers of Code Enforcement Board
   
32.72   Hearing officers
   
32.73   Enforcement proceedings
   
32.74   Hearing, notice and final order
   
32.75   Presentation of cases
   
32.76   Appeals; final judgment
   
32.77   Ordinance fine schedule
   
32.78   Lien; fines, charges and fees
   
32.79   Lienholder notification system
   
32.80   Liens
   
32.81   Immediate action
 
   
32.99   Penalty
DEPARTMENTS, COMMISSIONS, AND THE LIKE
§ 32.01 WATER DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There shall be created a Water Department to be designated as the City
Waterworks and a Sewer Department to be designated as the city sanitary sewer
system and both the City Waterworks and the City Sanitary Sewer System be
combined under the management or one Superintendent to be designated as
Superintendent of the water and sewer system. The Superintendent shall be under
the direct supervision of the Mayor, by and with the consent of the City
Council.
   (B)   (1)   Upon recommendation of the Superintendent, the Mayor, with the
approval of the Council, shall employee such additional help as may be needed
to keep the City Waterworks and the sanitary sewer system in good working
condition or to make repairs or extensions.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Mayor and the City Council to fix
salaries of the Superintendent and other employees of the combined City
Waterworks and the city sanitary sewer system. The Superintendent shall have
authority to purchase all supplies or equipment needed for repairs or
extensions, with approval of the Mayor or by and with the approval of the
Council.
   (C)   This section shall become a law and shall be in full force and effect
on and after its passage and publication as prescribed by law.
(Ord. 180, passed 1-3-1946) Penalty, see §
32.99
Cross-reference
   Water and Sewer, see Ch. 53
§ 32.02 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   A joint planning unit be and is hereby created and established for the
city and the county in accordance with the provisions of KRS 100.121, and that
said planning unit shall be named and known as the City-County Planning and
Zoning Commission.
   (B)   Pursuant to KRS 100.127, that said joint planning unit hereby created
and shall operate in accordance with the following agreements.
      (1)   Establishment and jurisdiction.
         (a)   Upon the appointment and approval of the members of the Planning
and Zoning Commission election of officers and adoption of by-laws, the
existence of the City-County Planning and Zoning Commission shall begin;
provided, however, that the members of the old Independent (County) Planning
and Zoning Commission shall continue to serve on the Joint Planning and Zoning
Commission as the members appointed by the County Judge/Executive and for the
terms stated in the Executive Order of December 27, 1973, Fiscal Court Order
Book 9, Pages 672A and 672B.
(KRS 100.133)
         (b)   The Commission may engage in planning operations within its
jurisdiction, which shall be coterminous with its political boundaries, KRS
100.131. The planning operations presently contemplated are those set forth in
KRS 100.183, KRS 100.187, and KRS 100.193.
      (2)   Membership.
         (a)   The City-County Planning and Zoning Commission shall consist of
six members with all six of the members being citizen-members. The County
Judge/Executive shall appoint three members of the Commission with the approval
of the County Fiscal Court. The City Mayor shall appoint three members of the
Commission with the approval of the City Council. A citizen-member may be any
citizen who is not an elected official, appointed official, or employees of the
city or the county.
(KRS 100.133; KRS 100.141)
         (b)   The oath of office shall be administered to all members of the
Commission before entering upon their duties and shall be administered as
provided by KRS 100.151.
         (c)   The term of office of citizen-members shall be four years,
except that the original terms shall be staggered so that a proportionate
number serve one, two, three, and four years respectively, with later
appointments or re-appointments continuing the staggered pattern.
(KRS 100.143)
         (d)   Two non-citizen-members may be appointed to serve on the
Planning and Zoning Commission and the term of office for such non-citizen-
member shall be the same as his or her official tenure of office, or in the
case of appointed public officials, for a term of four years, or at the
pleasure of the appropriate appointing authority.
(KRS 100.143)
         (e)   All vacancies, whether by resignation, dismissal, or expiration
of the term of office, shall be filled within 60 days by the County Judge/
Executive with the approval of the Fiscal Court or the Mayor, with the approval
of the City Council or as otherwise provided in KRS 100.147. The Mayor shall
fill vacancies of members appointed by the Mayor and the County Judge/Executive
shall fill vacancies of members appointed by the County Judge/Executive. A
citizen-member may be removed by the appropriate appointing authority for
inefficiency, neglect of duty, malfeasance, or conflict of interest, in
accordance with KRS 100.157, however, the removed member shall have the right
of appeal in the manner therein prescribed.
         (f)   Citizen-members shall serve without compensation but
reimbursement of expenses may be authorized. All non-citizen-members of the
Commission shall also serve without compensation, but reimbursement of expenses
may be authorized.
(KRS 100.153)
      (3)   Officers and staff. The Commission shall elect a Chairperson and
any other officers which it deems necessary from among its citizen-members. The
term of office shall be for one year with eligibility for re-election (see KRS
100.161). Subject to the availability of funds as may be appropriated by the
Fiscal Court, and City Council in accordance with KRS 100.177, the Commission
may employ a staff as it may deem necessary for its work and may contract with
professional planners as it deems necessary to accomplish its assigned duties.
It shall not appropriate any funds for any planning project without the
approval of the Fiscal Court and City Council.
(KRS 100.173; KRS 100.177)
      (4)   Meetings.
         (a)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall conduct regular
meetings as it deems necessary for the transaction of its business, but there
shall be at least six regular meetings annually. The by-laws adopted by the
Commission shall express the schedule of regular meetings; the manner in which
notice shall be given; the date, time, place, and subject or subjects to be
discussed; as well as the method for calling and conducting special meetings.
         (b)   A simple majority of the total membership shall constitute a
quorum. After a quorum has been established, a simple majority of that quorum
can transact any official business except in those instances where there is to
be an adoption or amendment of the Commission’s by-laws or elements of the
comprehensive plan or regulations, in which event, a vote of the simple
majority of the total membership shall be required.
(KRS 100.163; KRS 100.171)
      (5)   By-laws.
         (a)   The Commission shall adopt and approve its by-laws before it may
properly transact any business. The by-laws shall set forth the procedures,
rules, and regulations necessary for the Commission to conduct its business.
The by-laws shall describe the method of administration of funds and an annual
audit shall be provided for.
(KRS 100.167; KRS 100.177)
         (b)   The Commission shall keep minutes and records of all proceedings
as required by KRS 100.167.
      (6)   Powers and duties. The powers and duties of the Commission are as
set forth in KRS Ch. 100 with such general powers to carry out its functions as
prescribed by said chapter and by this section. The Commission may be assigned
any powers, duties, and functions related to urban renewal or public housing by
the Fiscal Court and City Council. See OAG 76-108.
(KRS 100.151)
      (7)   Withdrawal. Either the city of the county may at any time withdraw
from the joint planning unit by complying with the provisions of KRS 100.127
(2). See OAG 73-701 and OAG 74-853.
(Ord. 565, passed 10-8-1979; Ord. 669-99, passed 9-13-1999)
§ 32.03 COUNTY-CITY INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The city and the county hereby jointly create and establish the
County-City Industrial Development Authority, Inc., and the City Mayor and
County Judge/Executive are hereby expressly authorized to execute and file the
attached proposed articles of incorporation of the County-City Industrial
Development Authority, Inc. with the Secretary of State and County Clerk and
take all other necessary actions as may be necessary to properly create and
commence the existence of the County-City Industrial Development Authority,
Inc. (the “Corporation”) as an agency and instrumentality and the constituted
authority of the county and the city for the purposes set out in the articles
of incorporation subject to the terms and conditions set out therein.
   (B)   (1)   As set out in the attached articles of incorporation, hereby
adopted and incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set
out at length herein, the County-City Industrial Development Authority, Inc. is
organized solely for public, civic, and governmental purposes as provided in
KRS 154.50-316 and other applicable law, and no private pecuniary profits shall
at any time be derived by any directors or officers of the corporation or any
other persons whomsoever.
      (2)   The County-City Industrial Development Authority, Inc. is hereby
specifically granted all authority set forth in KRS 154.50-320.
   (C)   Upon the establishment of the County-City Industrial Development
Authority, Inc. in accordance with KRS 154.50-326, one-half of the members of
the Board of Directors of the Authority shall be appointed by the County Judge/
Executive, and one-half of the members of the Board of Directors of the
Authority shall be appointed by the City Mayor.
   (D)   This section shall be in full force and effect after adoption,
signature and recordation by both the City Council and the County Fiscal Court.
(Ord. 787-12, passed 12-11-2012)
§ 32.04 CIVIL DEFENSE AGENCY.
   (A)   There is hereby established a City Joint Civil Defense Committee, with
full power to create and maintain an adequate civil defense organization for
the city and the county, and said Committee is hereby authorized, directed, and
empowered to seek the advice of and to cooperate with Commonwealth and Federal
Civil Defense Agencies in order to develop a program of civil defense within
the city and the county calculated to preserve the lives and property of the
people the city.
   (B)   (1)   Pursuant to the City Council and the County Fiscal Court, that
said Joint Civil Defense Committee is hereby created shall consist of five
members, two of which shall be appointed by the City Council, two of which
shall be appointed by the County Fiscal Court, and the fifth member shall be
elected by the four members already appointed.
      (2)   Each member shall serve a term of one year and may be reappointed.
The Mayor and City Attorney, and the County Judge and County Attorney shall be
ex-officio members of said Committee. Said Committee shall appoint a
Chairperson from within its group and shall meet at least once each month as
conditions require.
   (C)   Said Committee shall be subject to orders from the City Council and
from the Fiscal Court and shall make such recommendations to each for such
action as may be required to implement the Civil Defense Program.
(Ord. 328, passed - -)
§ 32.05 FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to obstruct,
hinder, or in any way interfere with the Fire Department or any member thereof,
the machinery or any of the fixtures of the same, at or after the sounding of
the fire alarm and the provisions of this section shall be in force, whether
the alarm so given shall be true, false, or a practice run by the Fire
Department.
      (2)   This division (A) shall be and become a law on and after its
passage, publication, and approval as the law directs.
   (B)   (1)   The Fire Prevention Code, most current edition, made and adopted
by the Commonwealth Commissioner of Public Safety, a copy of which is on file
in the office of the City Clerk, is hereby adopted and incorporated as part of
this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
      (2)   A copy of this division (B) shall be sent to said Division of Fire
Prevention of the Department of Public Safety.
      (3)   The Chief of the Fire Department, along with all other officers,
agents, and employees of the city be and they are hereby charged with the
enforcement of the provisions of the Fire Prevention Code, most current
edition.
      (4)   The imposition of the penalties prescribed shall not preclude the
city from instituting an appropriate action or proceeding to prevent an
unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alternation, repair,
conversion, maintenance, or use, or to restrain, correct, or abate a violation,
or to prevent the occupancy of a building, structure, or premises, or to
prevent an illegal act, conduct, business, or use in or about any premises.
      (5)   This division (B) shall be effective immediately after its
acceptance, approval and publication as required by law.
(Ord. 20, passed 3-5-1925; Ord. 339, passed 10-7-1963) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.06 SCOTTSVILLE-ALLEN COUNTY VISITORS BUREAU.
   (A)   Composition; appointment and term of members.
      (1)   The Scottsville-Allen County Visitors Bureau shall be composed of
seven members to be appointed in accordance with the method used to establish
the commission. Members of a commission established by joint action of the
local governing bodies of a county and a city or cities located therein shall
be appointed, jointly, by the chief executive officers of the local governing
bodies that established the commission. Members of a commission established by
separate action of the local governing body of a county or a city located
therein shall be appointed separately by the executive officer of the local
governing body that established the commission. The chief executive officer of
a city shall mean the Mayor and the chief executive officer of a county shall
mean the County Judge/Executive. Candidates for the appointment to a commission
shall be submitted to the appropriate chief executive officer or officers in
the following manner:
         (a)   Two commissioners shall be appointed from a list of three or
more names submitted by the local city hotel and motel association and one
commissioner shall be appointed from a list of three or more names submitted by
the local county hotel and motel association, provided that if only one local
hotel and motel association exists which covers both the city and the county,
then three commissioners shall be appointed from a list of six or more names
submitted by it. If no formal local city or county hotel and motel association
is in existence upon the establishment of a commission or upon the expiration
of the term of a commissioner appointed pursuant to this division, then up to
three commissioners shall be appointed by the appropriate chief executive
officer or officers from persons residing within the jurisdiction of the
commission representing local hotels and motels. A local city or county hotel
and motel association shall not be required to be affiliated with the Kentucky
Hotel and Motel Association to be recognized as the official city or county
hotel and motel association.
         (b)   One commissioner shall be appointed from a list of three or more
names submitted by the local restaurant association or associations. If no
formal restaurant association or associations exist upon the establishment of a
commission or upon the expiration of the term of a commissioner appointed
pursuant to the division, then one commissioner shall be appointed by the
appropriate chief executive officer or officers from persons residing within
the jurisdiction of the commission and representing a local restaurant. A local
restaurant association or associations shall not be required to be affiliated
with the Kentucky Restaurant Association to be recognized as the official local
restaurant association or associations.
         (c)   One commissioner shall be appointed from a list of three or more
names submitted by the chamber or chambers of commerce existing within those
governmental units, which by joint or separate action have established the
commission. If the commission is established by joint action of a county and a
city or cities, then each chamber of commerce shall submit a list of three
names, and the chief executive officers of the participating governmental units
shall jointly appoint one commission member from the aggregate list. If no
local chamber of commerce is in existence upon the establishment of a
commission or upon the expiration of the term of a commissioner pursuant to
this division, then one commissioner shall be appointed by the appropriate
chief executive officer or officers from persons residing within the
jurisdiction of the commission and representing local businesses.
         (d)   Two commissioners shall be appointed in the following manner:
            1.   By the chief executive officer of the county or city, if the
commission has been established by separate action of a county or city; or
            2.   One each by the chief executive officer of the county and by
the chief executive officer of the most populous city participating in the
establishment of the commission, if the commission has been established by
joint action of a county and a city or cities.
      (2)   State law references.
         (a)   A candidate submitted for appointment to the commission,
pursuant to divisions (A)(1)(a) to (A)(1)(c), shall be appointed by the
appropriate chief executive officer or officers within 30 days of the receipt
of the required list or lists. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner
that the original appointments are made.
         (b)   The commissioners shall be appointed for terms of three years,
provided, that in making the initial appointments, the appropriate chief
executive officer or officers shall appoint two commissioners for a term of
three years, appoint two commissioners for a term of two years, and three
commissioners for a term of one year. There shall be no limitation on the
numbers of terms to which a commissioner is reappointed. Subsequent
appointments shall be for three-year terms.
         (c)   Removal of commissioners. A commissioner may be removed from
office, by joint or separate action, of the appropriate chief executive officer
or officers of the local governing body or bodies that established the
commission, as provided by KRS 65.007.
   (B)   Officers; employment of personnel and authority to make contracts. The
commission shall elect from its membership a chairman and a treasurer, and may
employ personnel and make contracts necessary to carry out the purpose of KRS
91A.345 to 91A.394. The contracts may include, but shall not be limited to, the
procurement of promotional services, advertising services, and other services
and materials relating to the promotion of tourist and convention business.
Contracts of the type enumerated shall be made only with persons,
organizations, and firms with experience and qualifications for providing
promotional services and materials, such as advertising firms, chambers of
commerce, publishers, and printers.
   (C)   Annual audit.
      (1)   The books of the commission and its account as established in KRS
91A.390(2) shall be audited as provided in KRS 65A.030. The independent
certified public accountant of Auditor of Public Accounts shall make a report
to the commission, to the associations submitting lists of names from which
commission members are selected, to the appropriate chief executive officer or
officers, to the State Auditor of Public Accounts, and to the local governing
body or bodies that established the commission that was audited. A copy of the
audit report shall be made available by the commission to its members of the
public upon request at no charge.
      (2)   The commission shall comply with KRS 65A.010 to 65A.090.
(Ord. 867-23, passed 4-10-2023)
OFFICERS AND OTHER CITY EMPLOYEES
§ 32.20 CITY CEMETERIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   The duties for the caretaker of the city cemeteries shall be to keep the
lawns and graves mowed and all other duties such as may be required of him or
her in the maintenance and upkeep of said cemeteries as directed by and under
the supervision of the Superintendent of said cemeteries, and he or she shall
be at all times subject to his or her orders and accountable to him or her for
his or her work.
(Ord. 221, passed 12-2-1948)
§ 32.21 GAS DEPARTMENT EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   All employees, including the manager, bookkeeper, collector, and any
other employees working for the Gas Department shall be employed by the City
Council, without regard to the recommendation of the Mayor.
   (B)   This section shall be and become effective upon its passage by the
Council, approval by the Mayor, and publication as the law directs.
(Ord. 219, passed 12-2-1948)
§ 32.22 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   There is hereby created an office of City Clerk. The Clerk is to be
employed by the City Council, subject to removal by the Council for cause. The
duties of said Clerk are to attend all meetings of the Council, keep a record
in the Official Minute Book of the proceedings of the Council, to record all
ordinances, and do such other work as prescribed by the Council.
      (2)   The City Clerk is an hourly employee.
      (3)   This division (A) shall become a law and in full force and effect
on and after its passage by the Council and publication of the same as provided
by law.
   (B)   Duties.
      (1)   It is the public policy of the city to promote fair treatment and
equal opportunity in housing for all persons regardless of race, color,
religion, national origin, or sex.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall have and perform the following duties:
         (a)   Obtain information concerning discrimination in housing, or in
the operation of the HUD CD Block Grant program, against any persons on account
of race, color, religion, national origin, or sex; and
         (b)   Assist any person alleging discrimination to prepare a complaint
and to refer it to the Commonwealth Commission on Human Rights for all
necessary investigation, conciliation, hearing, or enforcement, in accordance
with commonwealth and federal law.
      (3)   The text of this division (B) shall be disseminated through public
hearing; notices as required in the citizen participation process of the HUD
Block Grant program, and published per KRS 424.
(Ord. 165, passed 1-6-1944; Ord. 567, passed 1-14-1980)
§ 32.23 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   The office of City Treasurer and City Tax Collector are to remain
consolidated and the duties of each of said offices, as prescribed by law,
shall be performed by one person designated as City Treasurer-Tax Collector who
shall be paid hourly.
   (B)   This section shall become a law and be in full force and effect on and
after its passage and publication as prescribed by law.
(Ord. 179, passed 1-3-1946)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.45 CONCEAL CARRY.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 527.020(2), all police officers of the city are
authorized to carry concealed deadly weapons on or about their persons at all
times with the commonwealth.
   (B)   The Mayor is authorized to issue appropriate certificates evidencing
the foregoing authorization for the carrying of concealed deadly weapons.
   (C)   This section shall be in full force and effect upon signature,
recordation, and publication.
(Ord. 497, passed 7-9-1973)
§ 32.46 SALARY SUPPLEMENT FOR POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city hereby declares its intention to participate in the Law
Enforcement Foundation Program established by KRS 15.410 to 15.510.
   (B)   Each officer of the City Police Department shall be paid from city
funds an annual salary of at least $4,000 based on a standard work year of
2,080 hours beginning no later than July 1, 1973.
   (C)   (1)   Each officer employed on or after July 1, 1973, shall have as a
minimum educational attainment, a high school degree, or its equivalent as
determined by the Commonwealth Law Enforcement Council.
      (2)   Each officer employed on or after July 1, 1972, shall within one
year of his or her date of employment, complete a basic training course of at
least 928 hours duration at a school certified or recognized by the
Commonwealth Law Enforcement Council.
   (D)   (1)   Each officer, whether originally employed before or after July
1, 1972, shall successfully complete each year an in-service training course of
40 hours duration appropriate to his or her rank and responsibility at a school
certified or recognized by the Commonwealth Law Enforcement Council.
      (2)   Each officer shall receive in each calendar year five days’ time
off with pay for the purpose of taking the required in-service training.
   (E)   No officer shall have his or her base salary reduced or be denied a
normal salary increase to which he or she is otherwise entitled because of the
salary incentive payments provided by the Commonwealth Crime Commission under
KRS 15.410 to 15.510.
   (F)   The City Police Department and each officer thereof shall comply with
all provisions of law applicable to local police, including the transmission of
data to the Bureau of Criminal Information and Statistics as required by KRS
17.150.
   (G)   The Chief of the City Police Department shall prepare or cause to be
prepared such quarterly and other reports as may be reasonably required by the
Commonwealth Crime Commission to facilitate administration of the fund and
further the purpose of KRS 15.410 to 15.510.
   (H)   The City Police Department and each officer thereof shall further
comply with all reasonable rules and regulations, appropriate to the size and
location of the local Police Department, and issued by the Commonwealth Crime
Commission to facilitate the administration of the fund and further the
purposes of KRS 15.410 to 15.510.
   (I)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall deposit in an appropriate account which
can be identified separately from all other sources all monies received under
KRS 15.410 to 15.510.
      (2)   Forthwith upon receipt of any monies under KRS 15.410 to 15.510,
the Treasurer shall pay to each police officer the full amount received on
behalf of that officer, giving to each officer a check stub or receipt on which
the gross amount of monies paid to him or her under KRS 15.111 to 15.510 is
included and identified.
      (3)   All financial records relating to monies received under KRS 15.410
to 15.510, shall be retained for a period of three years and until the
completion of an audit approved by the Commonwealth Crime Commission and the
United States Law Enforcement Assistance Administration.
(Ord. 496, passed 3-12-1973; Ord. 511, passed 8-12-1974)
§ 32.47 POLICE DEPARTMENT AND FIRE CHIEF; DUTIES, RANK, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   There shall be, and is hereby created, a City Police Department. Said
Police Department is to consist of 17 members, the grades of which members
shall be that one member shall be the Chief of Police Department and 16 members
shall be police officers.
   (B)   The rank and personnel of said Police Department shall be designated
by the Police Chief.
   (C)   The duties of the Chief of Police shall be all those duties now
prescribed by statute.
   (D)   Any member of the Police Department may be removed from office by a
majority vote of the City Council upon good cause shown, the Council to be the
sole judge of what constitutes good cause.
   (E)   The Chief of Police and the entire Police Department are hereby
charged with the enforcement of law in the city, including the statutes and the
ordinances existing at this time, or as may be by the Council of any member or
members of the Police Department.
   (F)   The Chief of Police and the entire Police Department shall at all
times render themselves amenable to the orders of the City Council and failure
to carry out the directions of the Council shall constitute good cause for the
removal of the Chief of Police or any member of the Police Department.
   (G)   The city shall buy and pay for uniforms including caps and necessary
identification badges for the Chief of Police and each police officers and they
shall keep said uniforms cleaned and pressed and in first class wearable
condition at all times and bear the expense thereof themselves. The Mayor shall
have the authority to pass upon neatness of the Police Department and, in his
or her judgment, may require a police officers to meet the requirements of this
section, if necessary.
(Ord. 134, passed 12-26-1939; Ord. 139, passed 6-6-1940; Ord. 145, passed 9-5-
1940)
§ 32.48 VEHICLE LIGHTS.
   In accordance with the provisions of KRS 189.920(3), the Police Department
motor vehicles shall be equipped with a combination of red and blue flashing,
rotating or oscillating lights.
(Ord. 835-20, passed 9-14-2020)
CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
§ 32.65 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATEMENT COSTS. A city’s necessary and reasonable costs for and associated
with clearing, preventing unauthorized entry to, or demolishing all or a
portion of a structure or premises, or taking any other action with regard to a
structure or premises necessary to remedy a violation and to maintain and
preserve the public health, safety and welfare in accordance with any city
ordinance.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. An administrative body created and acting under the
authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act, being KRS 65.8801
to 65.8839.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A city police officer, safety officer, citation
officer or other public law enforcement officer with the authority to issue a
citation.
   FINAL ORDER. Any order:
      (1)   Issued by the Code Enforcement Board in accordance with §
32.74(E) of this subchapter;
      (2)   Issued by an assigned hearing officer in accordance with §
32.74(E)of this subchapter;
      (3)   Created because a violator neither paid nor contested the citation
within seven days as provided in §
32.73(F) of this subchapter; or
      (4)   Created because a violator failed to appear at a hearing the
violator requested to contest the citation as provided in §
32.74(C) of this subchapter.
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
   ORDINANCE. An official action of a local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and
shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by the city
legislative body which embodies all or part of an ordinance.
   OWNER. A person, association, corporation, partnership or other legal entity
having a legal or equitable title in real property.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, including any structures upon it.
(Ord. 812-17, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 32.66 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby created pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to KRS 65.8839 within the
city, a Code Enforcement Board which shall be composed of no fewer than three
members, all of whom shall be residents of the city for a period of at least
one year prior to the creation of the Board and shall reside there throughout
the term in office.
(Ord. 812-17, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 32.67 ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial orders and
impose civil fines as a method of enforcing city ordinances when a violation of
the ordinance has been classified as a civil offense.
(Ord. 812-17, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 32.68 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; OATH;
COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be appointed by the
executive authority of the city, subject to the approval of the legislative
body.
   (B)   The initial appointment to the Code Enforcement Board shall be as
follows:
      (1)   One-third of the membership or one-third of the membership and one
member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of one year;
      (2)   One-third of the membership or one-third of the membership and one
member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of two years; and
      (3)   One-third of the membership or one-third of the membership and one
member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of three years.
   (C)   All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of three years. A
member may be reappointed, subject to the approval of the legislative body.
   (D)   The executive authority may appoint, subject to the approval of the
legislative body, two alternate members to serve on the Code Enforcement Board
in the absence of regular members. Alternate members shall meet all of the
qualifications and shall be subject to all of the requirements that apply to
regular members of the Code Enforcement Board.
   (E)   Any vacancy on the Board shall be filled by the executive authority,
subject to approval of the legislative body, within 60 days of the vacancy. If
the vacancy is not filled within that time period, the remaining Code
Enforcement Board members shall fill the vacancy. A vacancy shall be filled for
the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (F)   A Board member may be removed from office by the executive authority
for misconduct, inefficiency, or willful neglect of duty. The executive
authority shall submit a written statement to the member and the legislative
body setting forth the reasons for removal. The member so removed shall have
the right of appeal to the Circuit Court.
   (G)   All members of the Code Enforcement Board shall, before entering upon
the duties of their office, take the oath of office prescribed by Section 228
of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (H)   No member of the Code Enforcement Board shall hold any elected or
nonelected office, paid or unpaid or any position of employment with the city.
(Ord. 812-17, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 32.69 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD; MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall annually elect a chair from among its
members. The chair shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member of
the Board. In the absence of the chair, the remaining members of the Board
shall select a member to preside in place of and exercise the powers of the
chair.
   (B)   Regular meetings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be held quarterly
starting in February. Day to be determined by Chairman, prior to month.
Meetings other than those regularly scheduled shall be special meetings or
emergency meetings held in accordance with the requirements of the Kentucky
Open Meetings Act.
   (C)   All meetings and hearings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be
public meetings held in accordance with the requirements of KRS 65.8815(5) and
the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (D)   The presence of at least a majority of the Board’s entire membership
shall constitute a quorum. The affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of
the board shall be necessary for any official action to be taken.
   (E)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Code Enforcement
Board and the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Ord. 812-17, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 32.70 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Any member of the Code Enforcement Board who has any direct or indirect
financial or personal interest in any matter to be decided shall disclose the
nature of the interest, disqualify himself or herself from voting on the matter
in which he or she has an interest, and shall not be counted for purposes of
establishing a quorum.
(Ord. 812-17, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 32.71 POWERS OF CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.
   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To adopt rules and regulations to govern its operations and the
conduct of its hearings consistent with this subchapter;
   (B)   To conduct hearings to determine if there has been a violation of an
ordinance over which it has jurisdiction;
   (C)   To subpoena alleged violators, witnesses and evidence to its hearings.
Subpoenas issued by the Code Enforcement Board may be served by any Code
Enforcement Officer;
   (D)   To take testimony under oath. The chairman shall have the authority to
administer oaths for the purpose of taking testimony;
   (E)   To make findings of fact and issue orders necessary to remedy any
violation of a city ordinance or code provision which the Board is authorized
to enforce;
   (F)   To impose civil fines, as authorized, on any person found to have
violated an ordinance over which the Board has jurisdiction; and
   (G)   To assign a hearing officer to conduct hearings in accordance with §
32.72 of this subchapter.
(Ord. 812-17, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 32.72 HEARING OFFICERS.
   (A)   Eligibility.
      (1)   The Code Enforcement Board may assign any of its members, including
the chair, to be a hearing officer.
      (2)   The Board may assign an individual who is not a member of the Board
to be a hearing officer as long as the individual does not hold any elected or
appointed office or position of employment with the city.
   (B)   Experience and training.
      (1)   A person assigned to be a hearing officer by the Code Enforcement
Board shall have experience or shall have received training in the code
enforcement process and basic procedural due process. At a minimum, the
experience or training shall include acquired knowledge regarding a party’s
fundamental due process right to:
         (a)   Be accompanied and advised by counsel at the hearing;
         (b)   Present evidence and witnesses on his or her behalf at the
hearing;
         (c)   Examine the evidence opposing the party; and
         (d)   Confront and cross-examine the witnesses opposing the party.
      (2)   The Code Enforcement Board may establish additional standards in
writing, including but not limited to examples of qualifying experience and
training, and minimum amounts of experience or training required.
      (3)   Before assigning a person as a hearing officer, the Code
Enforcement Board shall require the person to submit a written, signed
affidavit describing and verifying the experience or training received. The
affidavit shall be provided on a form prescribed by the Code Enforcement Board.
      (4)   The Code Enforcement Board shall determine whether the affidavit
satisfies the experience or training requirements as set forth in this
subsection and any additional standards established in writing by the Board.
The Board shall not assign a person as a hearing officer unless it has
determined that the affidavit satisfies the experience or training
requirements.
   (C)   Hearing powers and procedures.
      (1)   An assigned hearing officer may administer oaths to witnesses prior
to their testimony and subpoena alleged violators, witnesses and evidence.
      (2)   Any hearing conducted by a hearing officer shall conform to the
procedural requirements in §
32.74 of this subchapter.
   (D)   Final order.
      (1)   Following a hearing, the assigned hearing officer shall make
written findings of facts and conclusions of law, and enter a final order in
accordance with §
32.74(E) of this subchapter.
      (2)   Within 24 hours of entry, these findings, conclusions, and final
order shall be forwarded to the alleged violator, and to the Code Enforcement
Board. The findings, conclusions and recommended order may be delivered to the
alleged violator by regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt
requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual
place of residence with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age
or older and who is informed of the contents of the delivery.
   (E)   Appeal from final order. An alleged violator may appeal a final order
issued by a hearing officer directly to District Court, in accordance with §
32.76.
(Ord. 812-17, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 32.73 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Code Enforcement Board or hearing officer:
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings shall only be initiated by the issuance of a
citation by a Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Except when immediate action is necessary pursuant to §
32.81, if a Code Enforcement Officer believes, based on his or her personal
observation or investigation, that a person has violated a city ordinance, he
or she shall issue a notice of violation allowing the alleged violator a
specified period of time to remedy the violation without incurring a fine. If
the alleged violator fails or refuses to remedy the violation within the time
specified, the Code Enforcement Officer is authorized to issue a citation.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall issue the citation by one of the
following methods:
      (1)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
      (2)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person 18 years of age or
older who is on the premises, if the alleged violator is not on the premises at
the time the citation is issued; or
      (3)   Posting a copy of the citation in a conspicuous place on the
premises and mailing a copy of the citation by regular, first-class mail to the
owner of record of the property, if no one is on the premises at the time the
citation is issued.
   (D)   The citation issued by the Code Enforcement Officer shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (4)   The date and time the offense was committed;
      (5)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (6)   The section of the code or the number of the ordinance violated;
      (7)   The name of the Code Enforcement Officer;
      (8)   The civil fine that may be imposed for the violation, including, if
applicable:
         (a)   The civil fine that will be imposed if the person does not
contest the citation; and
         (b)   The maximum civil fine that may be imposed if the person elects
to contest the citation.
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (10)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation within the time allowed: the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board or hearing officer to contest the citation; the determination
that the violation was committed shall be final; the citation as issued shall
be deemed a final order determining that the violation was committed and
imposing the civil fine as set forth in the citation; and the person shall be
deemed to have waived the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
   (E)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall notify the Code Enforcement Board by delivering the citation to
the hearing officer.
   (F)   (1)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven days of the date of issuance by either paying the civil
fine or requesting, in writing, a hearing to contest the citation. If the
person fails to respond to the citation within seven days, the person shall be
deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a
violation was committed shall be considered final. In this event, the citation
as issued shall be deemed a final order determining that the violation was
committed and imposing the civil fine as set forth in the citation, and the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to appeal the final order to
District Court.
      (2)   Notice of the final order shall be delivered to the cited violator
by regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the delivery.
(Ord. 812-17, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 32.74 HEARING, NOTICE AND FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing has been requested, the Code Enforcement Board or its
administrative staff shall schedule a hearing.
   (B)   Not less than seven days before the date of the hearing, the Code
Enforcement Board shall notify the requester of the date, time and place of the
hearing. The notice may be given by regular first-class mail; certified mail,
return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at the
person’s usual place of residence with any individual residing therein who is
18 years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of the notice.
   (C)   (1)   Any person requesting a hearing who fails to appear at the time
and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to a
hearing to contest the citation, and the determination that a violation was
committed shall be final. In this event, the citation as issued shall be deemed
a final order determining the violation was committed and imposing the civil
fine set forth in the citation, and the alleged violator shall be deemed to
have waived the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the notice.
   (D)   All testimony at the hearing shall be taken under oath and recorded.
Testimony shall be taken from the Code Enforcement Officer, the alleged
violator, and any witnesses to the violation offered by the Code Enforcement
Officer or alleged violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but
fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (E)   The Code Enforcement Board shall, based on the evidence or the
assigned hearing officer’s recommended order, determine whether a violation was
committed. If it is determined that no violation was committed, an order
dismissing the citation shall be entered. If it is determined that a violation
was committed, an order may be issued upholding the citation.
   (F)   If the Code Enforcement Board is reviewing a final order entered by a
hearing officer on appeal as authorized by §
32.72(E), the Board shall review the record created before the hearing officer
and determine whether there is substantial evidence on the record to support
the finding of the hearing officer. If the Code Enforcement Board determines
there is not substantial evidence on the record, it shall enter an order
dismissing the citation. If the Board determines that there is substantial
evidence on the record, it shall issue a final order upholding the order
entered by the hearing officer. The provisions of this section shall apply to
any appeal hearing conducted pursuant to this division (F).
   (G)   (1)   Every final order following a hearing shall be reduced to
writing, which shall include the findings and conclusions reached and the date
the order was issued. A copy shall be furnished to the person named in the
citation.
      (2)   If the person named in the citation is not present when the final
order is issued, the order shall be delivered by regular first-class mail;
certified mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the
notice at the person’s usual place of residence with any individual residing
therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of
the notice.
(Ord. 812-17, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 32.75 PRESENTATION OF CASES.
   Each case before the Code Enforcement Board or assigned hearing officer
shall be presented by a Code Enforcement Officer for the city, or by a member
of the city’s administrative staff.
(Ord. 812-17, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 32.76 APPEALS; FINAL JUDGMENT.
   (A)   An appeal from a final order of a Code Enforcement Board or assigned
hearing officer following a hearing conducted pursuant to §
32.74(E) may be made to the County District Court within 30 days of the date
the order is issued. The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint
and a copy of the final order in the same manner as any civil action under the
Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   If no appeal from a final order following a hearing is filed within
the time period set in division (A) above, the order shall be deemed final for
all purposes.
(Ord. 812-17, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 32.77 ORDINANCE FINE SCHEDULE.
   Violations of ordinances that are enforced by the Code Enforcement Board or
an assigned hearing officer shall be subject to the following schedule of civil
fines:
   (A)   If a citation for a violation of an ordinance is not contested by the
person charged with the violation, the penalties set forth in this division
shall apply:
 
Violation                       1st Offense 2nd Offense All others
Animals                         $25         $50         $100
Unsafe and Unfit Structure Code $100        $125        $150
Garbage                         $10         $25         $50
Occupational license            $50         $75         $100
Weeds                           $10         $25         $50
 
   (B)   If the citation is contested and a hearing before the Code Enforcement
Board or assigned hearing officer is required, the following maximum penalties
may be imposed at the discretion of the Code Enforcement Board or hearing
officer:
 
Violation                      1st Offense 2nd Offense All others
Animals                        $100        $200        $300
Building and Construction Code $500        $750        $1,000
Garbage                        $75         $150        $250
Occupational license           $500        $750        $1,000
Weeds                          $50         $75         $100
 
(Ord. 812-17, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 32.78 LIEN; FINES, CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   The city shall possess a lien on property owned by the person found by
a nonappealable final order as defined by §
32.65, or by a final judgment of the court, to have committed a violation of a
city ordinance. The lien shall be for all civil fines assessed for the
violation and for all charges and fees incurred by the city in connection with
the enforcement of the ordinance, including abatement costs. An affidavit of
the Code Enforcement Officer shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
amount of the lien and regularity of the proceedings pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to
65.8839.
   (B)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The lien
shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear
interest at 8% per annum until paid. The lien shall continue for ten years
following the date of the nonappealable final order or final court judgment.
   (C)   Subject to §
32.80, the lien shall take precedence over all other liens, except state,
county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial
proceedings, including a foreclosure action.
   (D)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (A) of this section,
the person found to have committed the violation shall be personally
responsible for the amount of all civil fines assessed for the violation and
for all charges, fees and abatement costs incurred by the city in connection
with the enforcement of the ordinance. The city may bring a civil action
against the person and shall have the same remedies as provided for the
recovery of a debt.
(Ord. 812-17, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 32.79 LIENHOLDER NOTIFICATION SYSTEM.
   The city shall obtain and maintain priority over previously filed liens, as
provided in §
32.78 of this subchapter, in accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   Individuals and entities, including but not limited to lienholders,
may register with the city to receive electronic notification of final orders
entered pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   In order to receive the notification, the registrant shall submit the
following information to the code enforcement staff.
      (1)   Name;
      (2)   Mailing address;
      (3)   Phone number; and
      (4)   Electronic mailing address.
   (C)   A registrant may use the electronic form provided on the city website
to submit the information required by division (B) of this section. It shall be
the responsibility of the registrant to maintain and update the required
contact information with the city. The city shall inform a registrant of any
evidence received that the electronic mailing address is invalid or not
functional so that the registrant may provide an updated electronic mailing
address.
   (D)   Once every two weeks, the city shall send electronic mail notification
of all final orders entered pursuant to this subchapter since the last date of
notification to each party registered pursuant to this section. The
notification shall provide an electronic link to the city code enforcement
database located on the city website. The database shall include the following
information regarding each final order:
      (1)   The name of the person charged with a violation;
      (2)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (3)   The last known mailing address for the owner of the premises where
the violation occurred;
      (4)   A copy of the full citation;
      (5)   A copy of the full final order; and
      (6)   The status of the final order regarding its ability to be appealed
pursuant to this subchapter.
   (E)   If an appeal is filed on a final order pursuant to this subchapter,
the city shall send electronic mail notification to all registrants.
   (F)   Within ten days of the issuance of a final order pursuant to this
subchapter, the city shall update its code enforcement database to reflect the
issued final order, and shall post a summary of the information for each final
order required by division (D) of this section containing an updated link to
the code enforcement database on the city website.
   (G)   The city shall maintain the records created under this section for ten
years following their issuance.
(Ord. 812-17, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 32.80 LIENS.
   (A)   A lienholder of record who has registered pursuant to §
32.79(B) may, within 45 days from the date of issuance of notification under §
32.79(D):
      (1)   Correct the violation, if it has not already been abated; or
      (2)   Pay all civil fines assessed for the violation, and all charges and
fees incurred by the city in connection with enforcement of the ordinance,
including abatement costs.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action if necessary under §
32.81.
   (C)   The lien provided by §
32.78 shall not take precedence over previously recorded liens if:
      (1)   The city failed to comply with the requirements of §
32.79 for notification of the final order; or
      (2)   A prior lienholder complied with division (A) of this section.
   (D)   A lien that does not take precedence over previously recorded liens
under division (C) of this section shall, if the final order remains partially
unsatisfied, take precedence over all other subsequent liens except liens for
state, county, school board and city taxes.
   (E)   The city may record a lien before the 45-day period established in
division (A) of this section expires. If the lien is fully satisfied prior to
the expiration of the 45-day period, the city shall release the lien in the
County Clerk’s office where the lien is recorded within 15 days of
satisfaction.
   (F)   Failure of the city to comply with §
32.79 and this section, or failure of a lien to take precedence over previously
filed liens as provided in division (C) of this section, shall not limit or
restrict any other remedies the city has against the property of the violator.
(Ord. 812-17, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 32.81 IMMEDIATE ACTION.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is reason to believe
that the violation presents a serious threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of the violation
will be irreparable or irreversible.
(Ord. 812-17, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person or persons violating in anyway any of the provisions
of §
32.05(A) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
fined not less than $1, nor more than $15 for each offense.
      (2)   Any person who violates any provision of KRS 227.200 to 227.400 or
any provision of a lawful order, rule, or regulation made under the provisions
of KRS 227.200 to 227.400, or induces another to violate any provisions of KRS
227.200 to suggest KRS 227.400 or of any lawful order, rule, or regulation made
thereunder, shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $1,000, or confined
in the County Jail for not more than 60 days, or both. Each day such violations
exist shall, in the discretion of the courts, be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 20, passed 3-5-1952; Ord. 339, passed 10-7-1963)
CHAPTER 33: CITY POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   City employee salaries
   
33.02   Paid holidays
   
33.03   Equal opportunity
   
33.04   Mandatory retirement age
   
33.05   ADA grievance procedure
Code of Ethics
   
33.20   Title
   
33.21   Findings
   
33.22   Purpose and authority
   
33.23   Definitions
   
33.24   Conflicts of interest
   
33.25   Receipt of gifts
   
33.26   Use of property, equipment, and personnel
   
33.27   Representation of interests before city government
   
33.28   Misuse of confidential information
   
33.29   Post-employment restriction
   
33.30   Financial disclosure
   
33.31   Nepotism
   
33.32   Enforcement
   
33.33   Effective date
 
   
33.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   City Organization, see
Ch. 32
   Administrative hold on delinquent parties, see §
111.03
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 CITY EMPLOYEE SALARIES.
   Ord. 487 is hereby amended to designate any payment by the city to members
of the Fire Department as reimbursement for expenses incurred in the
performance of their duties.
(Ord. 487, passed 2-14-1972; Ord. 518, passed 11-11-1974)
§ 33.02 PAID HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   The city shall observe the holidays of New Year’s Eve, New Year’s Day,
Martin Luther King Jr. Day, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor
Day, Veteran’s Day, Thanksgiving (two days), Christmas Eve and Christmas and
that the aforementioned holidays shall be observed as paid holidays by the
city’s employees.
   (B)   If any employee is required to work on any of these holidays, he or
she shall receive a compensatory day of leave.
(Ord. 505, passed 3-11-1974)
§ 33.03 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY.
   (A)   No person shall be discriminated against on the basis of race, color,
religion, sex, or national origin in any phase of employment during the
performance of any federal or federally-assisted construction contracts in
excess of $10,000.
   (B)   Any vendor, contractor, supplier, or other party violating this
section may be subject to having its contract with the city cancelled or other
such remedy as may be appropriate.
   (C)   The purpose of this section is to comply with Presidential Executive
Order No. 11246.
(Ord. 584, passed 10-10-1983)
§ 33.04 MANDATORY RETIREMENT AGE.
   (A)   All officers, employees, and members of the City Police Department
shall retire and terminate employment with the city as officers, employees, or
members of the City Police Department on the first day of the month following
the attainment of age 62 years, except that the officers, employees, and
members over the age of 62 years on January 1, 1984, shall retire on the July
1, 1984.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to radio dispatchers
and clerical employees of the City Police Department.
   (C)   Pursuant to KRS 61.592 et seq., the positions affected by this section
shall be considered “hazardous positions”, effective January 1, 1984 for the
purpose of the city’s participation in the Commonwealth County Employees
Retirement System.
(Ord. 587, passed 2-6-1984)
§ 33.05 ADA GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The city has adopted an internal grievance procedure providing for
prompt and equitable resolution of complaints alleging any action prohibited by
the U.S. Department of Justice regulations implementing Title II of the
Americans with Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12131 through 12165. Title
II states, in part, that “no otherwise qualified disabled individual shall,
solely by reason of such disability, be excluded from the participation in, be
denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination” in programs or
activities sponsored by a pubic entity.
   (B)   Complaints should be addressed to Lauren Cherry, City Clerk, 201 W.
Main, Scottsville, KY 42164, 237-3238, who has been designated to coordinate
ADA compliance efforts.
      (1)   A complaint should be filed in writing or verbally, contain the
name and address of the person filing it, and briefly describe the alleged
violation of the regulations.
      (2)   A complaint should be filed within 15 days after the complainant
becomes aware of the alleged violation. (Processing of allegations of
discrimination which occurred before this grievance procedure was in place will
be considered on a case-by-case basis.)
      (3)   An investigation, as may be appropriate, shall follow a filing of
complaint. The investigation shall be conducted by the ADA Coordinator. These
rules contemplate informal but thorough investigations, affording all
interested persons and their representatives, if any, an opportunity to submit
evidence relevant to a complaint. Under the Department of Justice regulations,
the city need not process complaints from applicants for employment or from
applicants for admission to post-secondary educational institutions.
      (4)   A written determination as to the validity of the complaint and a
description of the resolution, if any, shall be issued by the ADA Coordinator
and a copy forwarded to the complainant no later than 30 days after its filing.
      (5)   The ADA coordinator shall maintain the files and records of the
city relating to the complaints filed.
      (6)   The complainant can request reconsideration of the case in
instances where he or she is dissatisfied with the resolution. The request for
reconsideration should be made within 15 days to the ADA Coordinator.
      (7)   The right of a person to a prompt and equitable resolution of the
complaint filed hereunder shall not be impaired by the person’s pursuit of
other remedies such as the filing of an ADA complaint with the responsible
federal department or agency. Use of this grievance procedure is not a
prerequisite to the pursuit of other remedies.
      (8)   These rules shall be construed to protect the substantive rights of
interested persons to meet appropriate due process standards and to assure that
the city complies with the ADA and implementing regulations.
(Ord. 635-94, passed 6-20-1994)
CODE OF ETHICS
§ 33.20 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Scottsville
Code of Ethics.”
(Ord. 637-94, passed 10-20-1994)
§ 33.21 FINDINGS.
   The legislative body of the city and declares that:
   (A)   Public office and employment with the city are public trusts;
   (B)   The vitality and stability of the government of this city depends upon
the public’s confidence in the integrity of its elected and appointed officers
and employees. Whenever the public receives a conflict between the private
interests and the public duties of a city officer or employee, that confidence
is imperiled; and
   (C)   The government of this city has a duty to provide its citizens with
standards by which it determine whether public duties are being faithfully
performed, and to make its officers and employees aware of the standards which
the citizenry rightfully expects them to comply with while conducting their
duties.
(Ord. 637-94, passed 10-20-1994)
§ 33.22 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide a method of assuring
that standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for
officers and employees of the city shall be clearly established, uniform in
their application, and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees
of the city with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of
interest which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is further the purpose of this subchapter to meet the requirements
of KRS 65.003, as enacted by the 1994 Commonwealth General Assembly.
   (C)   This subchapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.003.
(Ord. 637-94, passed 10-20-1994)
§ 33.23 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation, or any legal entity through which business is conducted for
profit.
   BOARD OF ETHICS. The City of Barren River Regional Board of Ethics which is
vested by this subchapter with the responsibility of enforcing the requirements
of the city’s code of ethics.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city office.
An individual is a CANDIDATE when the individual files a notification and
declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration
of intent to be a write-in candidate with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State.
   CITY. The city of Scottsville, Kentucky.
   CITY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority nonstock corporation, or other
entity created, either individually or jointly, by this city.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether full time or part time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city. The term EMPLOYEE
shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of their employees.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in the
officer’s or employee’s household, or a person claimed by the officer or
employee, or the officer’s or employee’s spouse, as a dependent for tax
purposes.
   OFFICER. Any person, whether full time or part time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   Legislative body member;
      (3)   The City Clerk;
      (4)   Any person who occupies a nonelected office created under KRS
83A.080; or
      (5)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency by the city.
(Ord. 637-94, passed 10-20-1994)
§ 33.24 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Conflicts of interests generally. Every officer and employee of the
city and every city agency shall comply with the following standards of
conduct.
      (1)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of any
officer or employee, shall have interest in a business or engage in a business,
transaction, or an activity which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of the officer’s or employee’s public duties.
      (2)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use
his or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or
advantages for himself, herself, or others.
      (3)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or refrain from
taking any discretionary action, or agree to take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action, or induce or attempt to induce any other officer or
employee to take or refrain from taking any discretionary action on any matter
before the city in order to obtain a financial benefit for any of the
following:
         (a)   The officer or employee;
         (b)   An immediate family member;
         (c)   An outside employer;
         (d)   Any business in which the officer or employee, or any immediate
family member has a financial interest; or
         (e)   Any business with which the officer or employee or any immediate
family member is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other
business or professional relationship.
      (4)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any
provisions in this section if, by reason of the officer’s or employee’s
participation, vote, decision, action or inaction, no financial benefit accrues
to the officer or employee, an immediate family member, an outside employer, or
a business as defined by divisions (A)(3)(d) and (A)(3)(e) above, as a member
of any business, occupation, profession, or other group, to any greater extent
than any gain could reasonably expect to accrue to any other member of the
business, occupation, profession, or other group.
      (5)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected
by his or her participation, vote, decision, or other action taken within the
scope of his or her public duties shall disclose the precise nature and value
of interest, in writing, to the governing body of the city or city agency
served by the officer or employee, and the disclosure shall be entered on the
official record of the proceedings of the governing body. The officer or
employee shall refrain from taking any action with respect to the matter that
is the subject of the disclosure.
   (B)   Conflicts of interest in contracts.
      (1)   No officer or employee of the city or any agency shall directly or
through others undertake, execute, hold, or enjoy, in whole or in part, any
contract made, entered into, awarded, or granted by the city or a city agency,
except as follows.
         (a)   The prohibition in this division (B)(1) shall not apply to
contracts entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for a
city office, before an appointed officer filed as a candidate for a city
office, before an appointment officer as appointed to a city or agency office,
or before an employee was hired by the city or agency office, or before an
employee was hired by the city or a city agency; however, if any contract
entered into by the city, or was hired as an employee, is renewable after he or
she becomes a candidate, assumes the appointed office, or is hired as an
employee, then prohibition in this division (B)(1) shall apply to the renewal
of the contract.
         (b)   The prohibition in this division (B)(1) shall not apply if the
contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the
officer or employee is authorized to participate in establishing the contract
specifications awarding the contract or managing contract performance after the
contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any of the authorities set
forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or employee shall have no
interest in the contract, unless the requirements set forth in division (B)(1)
(c) below are satisfied.
         (c)   The prohibition of this division (B)(1) shall not apply in any
case where the following requirements are satisfied:
            1.   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer’s or employee’s interest in the contract are publicly disclosed
at a meeting of the governing body of the city or city agency;
            2.   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed;
            3.   A finding is made by the governing body of the city or city
agency that the contract with the officer or employee is in the best interests
of the public and the city agency because of price, limited supply, or other
specific reasons; and
            4.   A finding is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
      (2)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a Class A
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, the court may void any contract entered into
as violation of this section. Additionally, a violation of this section shall
be grounds for removal from office or employment with the city in accordance
with any applicable provisions of commonwealth law and ordinances, rules, or
regulations of the city.
(Ord. 637-94, passed 10-20-1994) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.25 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly or
indirectly through any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift
having a fair market value of more than $100, whether in the form of money,
service, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing, or promise, or any
other form, under circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred that
the gift was intended to influence, or could reasonably be expected to
influence the officer or employee in the performance of his or her public
duties.
(Ord. 637-94, passed 10-20-1994) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.26 USE OF PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT, AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any city
time, funds, personnel, equipment, or other personal or real property for the
private use of any person, unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy; or
   (B)   The use is available to the general public, and then to the extent and
upon the terms that such use is available to the general public.
(Ord. 637-94, passed 10-20-1994) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.27 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall represent
any person or business, other than the city, in connection with any cause,
proceeding, application, or other matter pending before the city or city
agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an employee from representing
another employee or employees where the representation is within the context of
official labor union or similar representational responsibilities.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matters concerning his or her own interests.
   (D)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward,
or other thing of value is promised to, given to, or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(Ord. 637-94, passed 10-20-1994)
§ 33.28 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall
intentionally use or disclose information acquired in the course of his or her
official duties if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further
his or her personal financial interest or that of another person or business.
   (B)   Information shall be deemed confidential if it is not subject to
disclosure pursuant to the Commonwealth Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 to 61.884
at the time of its use or disclosure.
(Ord. 637-94, passed 10-20-1994) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.29 POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall appear or
practice before the city or any city agency with respect to any matter on which
the officer or employee personally worked while in the service of the city or
city agency for a period of one year after the termination of the officer’s or
employee’s service with the city or city agency.
(Ord. 637-94, passed 10-20-1994) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.30 FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   Who must file. The following classes of officers and employees of the
city and city agencies shall file an annual statement of financial interests
with the Barren River Regional Board of Ethics:
      (1)   Elected city officials; and
      (2)   Candidates for elected city office.
   (B)   When to file statements, amended statements.
      (1)   Pursuant to the memorandum of agreement between the city and the
Barren River Area Development, the initial statements of financial interests
required by this section shall be filed with the Barren River Regional Board of
Ethics, c/o Barren River Area Development District Records Administrator no
later than 3:00 p.m. March 1, 1995. All subsequent statements of financial
interest shall be filed no later than 3:00 p.m. on March 1 each year; provided,
that:
         (a)   An officer or employee newly required to fill an office or
position with the city or a city agency shall file his or her initial statement
no later than 30 days after the date of appointment; and
         (b)   A candidate for city office shall file his or her initial
statement no later than 30 days after the date on which the person becomes a
candidate for elected city office.
      (2)   The Barren River Regional Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable
extension of time for filing a statement of financial interests for good cause
shown.
      (3)   In the event there is a material change as defined in this
subchapter, in any information in a financial statement that has been filed
with the Board, the officer or employee shall, no later than 30 days after
amended statement with the Board.
   (C)   Form of statement of financial interests. The statement of financial
interests shall be filed on a form prescribed by the Barren River Regional
Board of Ethics. The Board shall deliver to the city a copy of the form for
each officer and employee required to file the statement no later than February
15 of each year. The failure to deliver the form shall not relieve the officer
or employee of the obligation to file the statement.
   (D)   Control and maintenance of the statement.
      (1)   The Barren River Regional Board of Ethics shall be the official
custodian of the statements of financial interests. The statements of financial
interest shall be maintained by the Board or the Records Administrator designed
by the Board as custodian of public documents, available for public inspection
immediately upon filing.
      (2)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the Board
or the custodian for a period of five years after filing; provided, that:
         (a)   Upon the expiration of three years after a person ceases to be
an officer or employee of the city or a city agency, the Board shall cause to
be destroyed any statement of financial interests or copies of those statements
filed by the person; and
         (b)   Upon the expiration of three years after any election at which a
candidate for elected city office was not elected or nominated, the Board shall
cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those
statements filed by the person.
   (E)   Contents of the financial interests statements.
      (1)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information of the preceding calendar year:
         (a)   The name, current business address, business telephone number,
and home address of the filer;
         (b)   The title of the file’s office, office sought, or position of
employment;
         (c)   The occupation of the filer and the filer’s spouse;
         (d)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer
and the filer’s immediate family members exceeding $5,000 during the preceding
calendar year, and the nature of the income (e.g., salary, commission,
dividends, retirement fund distribution, and the like);
         (e)   The name and address of any business located within the
commonwealth in which the file or any member of the filer’s immediate family
had at any time during the preceding calendar year; and
         (f)   A designation as commercial, residential, or rural, and the
location of all real property within the county, other than the filer’s primary
residence, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had
during the preceding calendar year.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer
or employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of individual
clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income.
   (F)   Noncompliance with filing requirement.
      (1)   (a)   The Barren River Board of Ethics or Records Administrator
shall notify by certified mail each person required to file a statement of
financial interests who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an
incomplete statement, or files a statement in a form other than prescribed by
the Board.
         (b)   The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency,
shall establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied,
and shall advise the person of the penalties for a violation.
      (2)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial
interests which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally
omits required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 637-94, passed 10-20-1994) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.31 NEPOTISM.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall advocate,
recommend or cause the:
         (1)   Employment;
         (2)   Appointment;
         (3)   Promotion; or
         (4)   Advancement of a immediate or position of employment family
member to an office with the city or a city agency.
   (B)   No office or employee of the city or a city agency shall supervise or
manage the work of an immediate family member.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall participate in any action relating to the
employment or discipline of a immediate family member, except that this
prohibition shall not prevent an elected or appointed official from voting on
or participating in the development of a budget which includes compensation for
a family member; provided, that the immediate family member is included only as
a member of a class of persons or a group, and the immediate family member
benefits to no greater extent than any other similarly situated member of the
class or group.
   (D)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to
January 1, 1995.
(Ord. 637-94, passed 10-20-1994) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.32 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Board of Ethics. Pursuant to the memorandum of agreement setting forth
the Barren River Regional Board of Ethics, all authority for the establishment
of procedures for formation and maintenance of the Barren River Board of Ethics
appropriate thereto are hereby delegated provided:
      (1)   The Board shall comply with all terms and conditions as set forth
in the Act Establishing a Code of Ethics for Cities;
      (2)   Any hearings or related procedures shall comply with the
Commonwealth Rules of Civil Procedure and the Commonwealth Rules of Evidence;
      (3)   Any regulations adopted by the Board of governing its procedures
shall be consistent with the Commonwealth Open Records Law, being KRS 61.870
through 61.884;
      (4)   The city shall bear its proportionate share of any costs for
investigations, hearings, preparation of findings, and the issuance of any
advisory opinions by the Board; and
      (5)   No member of the Regional Board of Ethics shall hold a position in
any local government or be subject to the terms of this subchapter.
   (B)   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited.
      (1)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall subject
to reprisal, or directly or indirectly use, or threaten to use any official
authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage,
restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce, or discriminate against any
person who in good faith reports, discloses, divulges, or otherwise brings to
the attention of the Barren River Regional Board of Ethics or any other agency
or official of the city or the commonwealth any facts or information relative
to an actual or suspected violation of this subchapter.
      (2)   This division (B) shall not be construed as prohibiting
disciplinary or punitive action if an officer or employee of the city or any
city agency discloses information which he or she knows:
         (a)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity;
         (b)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of
the Commonwealth Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 to 61.884; or
         (c)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Ord. 637-94, passed 10-20-1994)
§ 33.33 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take full force and effect immediately upon
publication as required by KRS 83A.060.
(Ord. 637-94, passed 10-20-1994)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who fails or
refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice under §
33.30(F)(1) within the time period established in the notice, shall be guilty
of a civil offense and shall be subject to civil fine imposed by the Board in
an amount not to exceed $25 per day, up to a maximum total civil fine of $500.
Any civil fine imposed by the Board under this section may be recovered by the
Board in a civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender fails or
refuses to pay the penalty within a prescribed time.
(Ord. 637-94, passed 10-20-1994)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
   
34.01   Generally accepted accounting procedures (GASB)
   
34.02   Revolving Loan Fund
   
34.03   Bank franchise and local deposit tax
   
34.04   Police fee payment into City Treasury
   
34.05   Purchase order system
   
34.06   Ratifying Treasurer payments
   
34.07   Posting of bid notices
   
34.08   Current expense warrants
   
34.09   Levying a property tax on motor vehicles having a situs in the city
   
34.10   Adoption of ten-year payment for permanent improvement of sidewalks
Cross-reference:
   Administrative hold on delinquent parties, see §
111.03
§ 34.01 GENERALLY ACCEPTED ACCOUNTING PROCEDURES (GASB).
   (A)   This section shall outline generally accepted accounting procedures to
record and account for the capital assets of the city and its agencies,
offices, and operating departments.
   (B)   This policy shall apply to all assets of the city government and shall
be complied with by all employees, officials, agencies, offices, and
departments of city.
   (C)   The capital assets for the city shall be recorded and accounted for
according to the following principles:
      (1)   Both tangible and intangible assets will be capitalized using the
following criteria:
         (a)   Land assets will always be capitalized, will be capitalized
without regard to cost, and will not be depreciated;
         (b)   Infrastructure will be capitalized if it has a life expectancy
of five years or greater and a designated value exceeding $100,000; and
infrastructure acquired after July 1, 2003 will be recorded as capitalized if
it meets the criteria for capitalization;
         (c)   Assets other than land or infrastructure, including leases on
assets, will be capitalized if the asset or lease interest has a useful life of
five years or more and a designated value exceeding $5,000; and
         (d)   Assets which are acquired with grant funding or other committed
revenues and which do not meet the criteria for capitalization will nonetheless
be capitalized whenever the appropriate city official determines it to be
necessary or advisable.
      (2)   All capitalized assets shall be recorded and inventoried on forms
established by the appropriate city official and periodic physical inventories
will be required. The separate agencies, departments, and offices shall
maintain recorded and physical inventory of assets in its possession which have
a cost of $1,000 and over. Assets with a value of less than $1,000 shall not be
inventoried.
      (3)   Capitalized assets, other than land, will be depreciated using the
straight-line depreciation method.
      (4)   Capitalized assets will not be written off from the records or
accounts of the city until the asset is disposed of physically.
      (5)   (a)   All capital assets will be depreciated on a straight-line
basis over the estimated useful life of the asset.
         (b)   The following guidelines shall be followed.
BLD Buildings                480 months
CEQ Communications equipment 84 months
FIX Fixtures and furniture   84 months
IMP Improvements other “t180 months
MEQ Machinery and equipment  60 months
OEQ Office equipment         60 months
PAV Paving                   300 months
SID Sidewalks                360 months
TEQ Transportation equipment 60 months
 
      (6)   All capital assets shall be recorded in appropriate fixed asset
inventory records and shall be verified by physical inspection at once every
year.
(Ord. 718-04, passed 1-10-2005)
§ 34.02 REVOLVING LOAN FUND.
   (A)   (1)   A Revolving Loan Fund, called the City Revolving Loan Fund
(CRLF), shall be created utilizing the proceeds from lease payment earned on
projects funded by the Commonwealth Community Development Block Grant program.
      (2)   The purpose of the Revolving Loan Fund shall be for economic
development and shall be used to assist existing and prospective business and
industries in activities which will lead to the creation or retention of jobs.
      (3)   Policies and procedures be developed regulating the operation of
the SRLF. Such policies and procedures shall address the formation and
composition of a review board, eligibility, and loan selection criteria, loan
selection and approval process, closing process, the monitoring of outstanding
loans, the establishment of processing fees, and development of an application
form. Other concerns may be addressed as desired.
      (4)   All monies earned shall be accounted for in a separate fund and
used for the purposes as set forth in the policies and procedures.
      (5)   Proceeds from the repayment of principal and interest or leases on
such projects funded by the SLRF shall be deposited in the Revolving Loan Fund
to be used to assist future prospects.
      (6)   This division (A) shall become effective upon publication.
   (B)   (1)   The following factors will be considered in the loan review
process for all RLF loan applications: the highest priority will be given to
projects creating at least one job per every $10,000 of RLF monies. Except
under exceptional circumstances, the RLF will not consider projects where the
ratio exceeds $20,000 per new long-term job created.
      (2)   Jobs used for purposes of this ratio are those existing full-time
(FT) or full-time equivalent (FTE) at the end of two years after start-up or
until job creation goals have been met for grant reporting purposes.
Construction jobs in the building of a facility are not included.
(Ord. 627-93, passed 4-12-1993; Ord. 754-09, passed 4-27-2009)
§ 34.03 BANK FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed on all “financial institutions”, as defined in
KRS Ch. 136, located within the corporate limits of the city for the 1996 tax
year and all subsequent years, a franchise tax at the rate of 0.025% (the city
may elect to impose lower rate) on all deposits, as defined in KRS Ch. 136,
maintained by such financial institutions.
   (B)   For transition purposes, the 1996 tax year will be treated differently
in terms of collection of taxes than for all subsequent years. For the 1996 tax
year, the following timetable is hereby established: the city will issue tax
bills to financial institutions no later than May 1, 1997. Payment of the tax
shall be due with a 2%discount by May 31, 1997, or without the discount by June
30, 1997.
   (C)   For all tax years subsequent to the 1996 tax year, the following
timetable is hereby established: the city will issue tax bills to financial
institutions no later than December 1 of each year. Payment of the tax shall be
due with a 2% discount by December 31 of each year, or without the discount by
January 31 of each year.
   (D)   The city shall have a lien for taxes upon any and all property subject
to the tax imposed by these sections, which lien shall be superior to all
encumbrances prior or subsequent.
   (E)   All taxes due in accordance with these sections which are not paid
before June 30, 1997, for tax year 1996, or which are not paid before January
31, for all subsequent years tax years, shall be deemed delinquent and shall be
subject to a penalty of 6% and shall bear interest at the rate of 6% per annum.
   (F)   All monies collected pursuant to these sections shall be paid into the
City General Fund to be used for the payment of proper expenditures as
determined by the City Council.
   (G)   The City Clerk is hereby directed to send a copy of this section to
the Commissioner of the Commonwealth Department of Revenue, Frankfort,
Kentucky.
(Ord. 651-96, passed 8-12-1996)
§ 34.04 POLICE FEE PAYMENT INTO CITY TREASURY.
   All fees allowed by law to the Chief of Police and the members of the Police
Department shall be paid into the City Treasury forthwith upon the receipt of
any such fees.
(Ord. 534, passed 3-8-1976)
§ 34.05 PURCHASE ORDER SYSTEM.
   From the date of the enactment of this section, no department or employee of
the city shall make any purchases on behalf of the city without complying with
the following procedures:
   (A)   Numbered purchase orders forms shall be used for all purchases and
orders;
   (B)   The City Clerk shall authorize all purchases for and on behalf of the
city;
   (C)   Purchases of $20 or less shall be issued by employees authorized to
make purchases;
   (D)   All purchases over $100 shall be approved by the Mayor;
   (E)   All purchase orders of $100 or less shall be made on a form to be
promulgated by the Mayor’s office, and no invoices shall be paid unless proper
authorization and purchase order number are shown on said invoices, accompanied
by proper proof of receipt; and
   (F)   All purchases over $100 require computer purchase order and approval
of Mayor.
(Ord. 503, passed - -)
§ 34.06 RATIFYING TREASURER PAYMENTS.
   The issuance of each and every voucher, heretofore made by the Mayor of the
city, and the issuance of each and every check in payment of such vouchers by
the City Treasurer for the sum of $500 or more, shall be and the same are
hereby ratified and approved to have the same force and effect as if the
vouchers so issued by the Mayor and the check so issued by the City Treasurer
in each instance prior thereto had been authorized by ordinance before the same
had been issued.
(Ord. 252, passed 8-1-1952)
§ 34.07 POSTING OF BID NOTICES.
   The City Clerk is hereby directed to abide by KRS 424.260, 424.130(1)(b) and
424.140(3).
(Ord. 153, passed 6-4-1942)
§ 34.08 CURRENT EXPENSE WARRANTS.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall be and is hereby authorized to issue warrants on
the Treasurer to be paid out of the current incomes of the city. Said incomes
to include all taxes and incomes except such as are set aside to pay the
interest on city bonds and to create a sinking fund for the discharge of said
bonds, as provided by ordinances.
   (B)   Said warrants shall be known as current expense warrant and shall draw
interest at the rate of 6% per annum. Both the face of the warrant and the
amount of interest which may have accrued shall be payable either September 15
of the year in which it was issued or January 1 of the year after issue as may
be indicated in the face of the warrant.
   (C)   All of said warrants shall be received by the City Treasurer at their
full face value and accumulated interest, in payment of all kinds of taxes the
holder may at any time owe the city, except sinking funds and interest on city
bonds.
   (D)   The said current expense warrants shall be issued in payment of the
following current expenses of the city and these expenses only:
      (1)   City Hall rent;
      (2)   City lights;
      (3)   Light fixtures and repairs;
      (4)   Hauling garbage;
      (5)   Salaries of city officers;
      (6)   Incidental expenses;
      (7)   Telephone rents;
      (8)   Fuel; and
      (9)   Publishing notices and ordinances.
   (E)   All current expense warrants shall be subject to a call of the
Treasurer for redemption at any time after issue.
   (F)   All such warrants shall be signed by the Mayor and City Clerk.
   (G)   This section shall become a law and be in full force and effect after
its adoption and publication as the law directs.
(Ord. 7, passed 1-7-1924)
§ 34.09 LEVYING A PROPERTY TAX ON MOTOR VEHICLES HAVING A SITUS IN THE CITY.
   (A)   There is hereby levied an ad valorem tax of $0.20 for every $100 of
the assessed valuation of motor vehicles having a taxable situs in the city as
of January 1, 1985, and for each year thereafter as listed in the Tax
Assessment Ledger compiled by the County Property Valuation Administration.
   (B)   All monies collected from the tax levied in this section shall be paid
into the City General Fund to be used for the payment of proper expenditures as
determined by the City Council.
   (C)   In accordance with KRS 132.487 and 134.800, the tax shall be assessed
under a centralized tax system and collected by the County Clerk. It is further
provided that for the collection of this tax on behalf of the city, the County
Clerk shall be paid 4% of monies collected on vehicle taxes. Payment to the
city by the Clerk shall be as governed by KRS 134.815.
   (D)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
proper passage and publication as required by law.
(Ord. 593, passed 10-8-1984; Am. Ord. 818-17, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 34.10 ADOPTION OF TEN-YEAR PAYMENT FOR PERMANENT IMPROVEMENT OF SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   (1)   The laying of sidewalks of the city, including curbing and
guttering, shall be done as from time to time, designated at the exclusive
costs of the owners of the real estate abutting on such improvements to be
apportioned among and assessed upon the lots or parcels of real estate, and a
tax shall be levied upon such lots or parcels or real estate for the payment of
the costs assessed thereon, which tax shall be due and payable to the City
Treasurer upon the completion of the work and the acceptance thereof by the
City Council, unless the ten-year payment is accepted by the property owners as
hereinbefore provided. Any tax which is not paid within 30 days after the same
becomes due shall have added thereto a penalty of 6% per annum.
      (2)   There shall be a first and superior lien taking precedence over all
other liens upon such lots or parcels of real estate for the part of the cost
of such improvement so assessed thereon and the same shall bear interest at the
rate of 6% per annum from the date of assessment until paid, if the same be not
paid within the 30 days hereinbefore mentioned.
   (B)   Any assessment for any sidewalk or other improvement as hereinbefore
set out, which shall be ordered by the City Council, which assessment shall
exceed one-half of the value of the lots or parcels of real estate upon which
the assessment is made, shall be void as to such excess, but the improvement
shall be taken into consideration in fixing the value of such real estate and
the City Council shall provide for the payment of any such excess out of the
General Fund.
   (C)   The improvements ordered pursuant to this section are to be made by
the city unless by special ordinance, the same are let by contract, and all
taxes or assessments for the same shall be paid to the City Treasurer. The City
Clerk shall carefully keep a separate account of the funds arising from
assessments for each particular improvement and no proceeds arising from assess
merits for one improvement shall be diverted to the payment of any other
improvement whatever. The proceeds shall in each case constitute a separate
special fund for the payment of the particular work for which the assessment is
made, or for the security and payment plan provided pursuant to this section,
records of said assessment open to public inspection shall be kept by the City
Clerk as provided by statute.
   (D)   (1)   After the improvement shall have been completed and accepted and
the cost thereof apportioned to, and a tax therefor levied thereon as
hereinbefore provided, the City Treasurer shall give notice by one publication
in the newspaper or general circulation published in such city, requiring all
persons to pay the local taxes levied upon their property within 30 days from
the publication of the ordinance, accepting the work and assessing the cost
thereof.
      (2)   Such local taxes may, at the option of the property owners, be paid
in cash without interest within 30 days from the publication of the ordinance
accepting the work and assessing the cost thereof, or in ten annual
installments as provided in this section.
   (E)   (1)   Any property owner who desires to exercise such privilege or
payment to be in installments shall, before the expiration of said 30 days,
enter into an agreement in writing with the city that in consideration of such
privilege, he or she shall make no objection to any illegality or irregularity
with regard to the taxes or assessments against said property and that he or
she will pay the same in the manner provided in this section with specified
interest, said agreements to be filed and recorded in the city Clerk’s office.
When the property owner is an infant or person of unsound mind, said agreement
may be executed by a guardian or committee, or by a life tenant if the same be
so owned, and have the same effect as if executed by a person free from
disability or the owner of the fee.
      (2)   When no such agreements are filed within the time limit, the entire
tax shall be payable in cash and if not paid within 30 days and shall bear
interest at the rate of 6% per annum from the date of publication of the
ordinance assessing and levying the same.
   (F)   In cases where option to pay in installments is exercised the local
tax with interest at the rate of 6% per annum, it shall be payable as follows:
      (1)   One-tenth of the tax with interest on the entire tax at the time
fixed for the payment of general city taxes occurring next after the expiration
of the 30 days allowed for the payment in cash annually, thereafter one-tenth
of the entire tax until the whole is paid;
      (2)   At the end of each six months from the time the first installment
of the tax becomes due, the interest shall be due and payable for such six
months on all unpaid installments of the tax; provided, that any persons may at
any interest paying period after the fifth annual installment of his or her tax
becomes due pay the entire assessment of tax against his or her property with
accrued interest; and
      (3)   All installments of such special assessments and interest shall be
placed upon the tax duplicate with other taxes of persons, liable for such
special assessments, and the tax bill for such special assessment may in
addition to other remedies given by statute, be sold, and collection thereof in
the manner provided by law for collection of city taxes.
   (G)   (1)   In default of payment of any installment of tax or interest, for
one month after the same becomes due, a penalty of 6% of the installment in
arrears shall be added thereto which shall constitute a like lien as the tax,
and all unpaid installments of the tax shall, at the option of the city or any
bond holder whose bonds or interest thereon are in default of payment
forthwith, become due and payable. It shall be the duty of the Treasurer upon
order of the City Council to promptly apply all money paid on such installments
of the payment of the bonds and coupons which may be issued as provided in next
section in anticipation of the collection of such local taxes.
      (2)   If the fund accumulated from the collection of assessments,
interest, and penalties for any particular improvement be more than sufficient
to pay the principal and interest of the bond issued in anticipation of such
collection, there shall be made a ratable reduction from the last installment
of each person’s assessment. Should there be any deficit, provision for payment
of the same shall be made out of the General Fund.
      (3)   Failure on the part of the city to collect any such local tax or
installment thereof when due, shall create no liability against the city, but
the owners of the bond or person entitled to said tax shall have the right to
enforce the lien for unpaid assessments in any court of competent jurisdiction,
recovering interest and costs and may have proceeds of the property applied in
settlement thereof. Any railroad company liable for any improvement tax shall
be entitled to the provisions of the section with reference thereto and
exercise of such privilege as other property owners.
   (H)   In order to provide a fund for the immediate payment of the cost of
any improvement made on the installment payment loan as provided in the
preceding provision, there may be issued and sold improvement bonds in
anticipation of such part of the local taxes assessed and levied therefor as
may not be paid within 30 days from the time of the assessment, pledging such
taxes and the liens on the property for the payment of the principal and
interest of such bonds and applying the proceeds thereof exclusively to the
payment of the particular improvement in anticipation of the assessments for
which the bonds are issued.
   (I)   Such bonds shall bear the date of the publication of the assessing
ordinance and shall be made payable to bearer. The bonds for each separate
improvement shall be numbered consecutively throughout and shall be divided
into ten series as nearly equal as possible, the first series including the
lowest numbers and so on. The bond with interest shall be payable at the City
Treasurer’s office as follows.
      (1)   The first series with accrued interest on all series shall be due
and payable one month after the date on which the first installment of the tax
becomes due as provided in the preceding provision, and the remaining series
shall be due and payable one each year annually thereafter for nine years.
      (2)   Interest on all unpaid bonds shall be due and, payable semi-
annually, at the end of each six months from the time of the first interest
becomes due. The bonds shall be of the denomination of $100 or its multiple;
provided, that every odd amount over $100 or its multiple may be included in
the last bond to mature. No bond shall be issued for less than $100 unless the
total amount for which the bonds are issued for any particular improvement is
less than $1,000.
      (3)   All improvement bonds shall have the name of the street or other
public way or part thereof for the improvement of which they are issued,
printed, engraved, or written thereon and shall state the character of
improvement. They shall bear interest at a rate not exceeding 6% per annum from
the date of assessment of tax and shall have suitable coupons attached thereto,
evidencing the semi-annually interest. The bonds or coupons shall be signed by
the Mayor and counter signed by the Treasurer but the coupons may be singed by
lithograph. The Clerk shall attest the signatures to the bonds under seal of
the city.
   (J)   The bonds and interest shall be payable exclusively out of funds
actually paid to and collected by the city on account of the improvement taxes
in anticipation of which the bonds are issued, but the faith and credit of the
city shall not be pledged for the payment of said bonds or interest and the
city shall, in no event, be liable on any such bond except to the extent of
funds actually paid to it as above set out. And all bonds so issued shall be
subject to all the rights and privileges specifically set forth in KRS 3459,
Act of March 7, 1916 applicable to such bond.
   (K)   This section shall take effect from and after its final passage and
approval by the Mayor.
(Ord. 19, passed 1-1-1925)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES
      
51.   GAS AND NATURAL GAS
      
52.   REFUSE
      
53.   WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES
Section
   
50.01   Furnishing of city utilities to newly subdivided real property
   
50.02   Establishing current rates for utility connection fees
   
50.03   Disconnection for late payment
   50.04   Development connections to city utilities
§ 50.01 FURNISHING OF CITY UTILITIES TO NEWLY SUBDIVIDED REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   In any division of a parcel of real property for which a new street is
involved, the owner and developer of such real property shall construct and
install any necessary street or streets for such division which shall fully
comply with the city’s specifications for streets which are attached hereto and
incorporated by reference as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set
out at length herein.
   (B)   Unless and until such street or streets have been installed by the
developer, the city shall not provide the subdivided real property with any
city utilities to include water, sanitary sewer service, and natural gas
service (if available). The developer shall also be responsible for the initial
installation of water lines and sanitary sewer lines to service any newly
subdivided real property in accordance with the city’s specifications for water
and sewer lines which are attached hereto and incorporated by reference as part
of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein. Any
expansion of the city’s natural gas service area will be constructed and
install by the city at the expense of the developer.
(Ord. 653-96, passed 10-14-1996)
§ 50.02 ESTABLISHING CURRENT RATES FOR UTILITY CONNECTION FEES.
   The hook on or connection fees for utility by the city shall be as follows:
   (A)   Water service three-fourths-inch to five-eighth-inch standard: $500,
increasing $100, per one- inch increments;
   (B)   Natural gas service: $5 per foot from property line to meter; and
   (C)   Road boring: cost.
(Ord. 735-07, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 50.03 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill;
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his bill shall have
a right to a hearing at which time he may be represented in person and by
counsel or any other person of his choosing and may present orally or in
writing his complaint and contentions to the city official in charge of utility
billing. This official shall be authorized to order that the customer’s service
not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a final determination
of the customer's complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $20.
(Ord. 572, passed 9-8-1980)
§ 50.04 DEVELOPMENT CONNECTIONS TO CITY UTILITIES.
   (A)   All proposed water and sewer connections to existing city utilities
for new developments must be reviewed and approved by the city, or its
designee, before letters permitting connection will be written. Developers,
contractors, builders, or other persons responsible for the proposed
connections, shall submit design calculations and flow projections, hydraulic
information and/or design demand projections, as applicable, for the
development utility service to the city for review and shall be responsible for
all city review fees. City review shall determine if the city’s existing
utilities have the capacity to serve the proposed development and effects of
such service on the city’s utilities. Once the proposed connections are
approved by the city, design documents for the proposed utilities shall be
submitted to the city in accordance with division (B) below.
   (B)   All proposed water and sewer utilities to be installed by developers,
contractors, builders, or other persons shall be reviewed and approved by the
city, or its designee, prior to the commencement of construction to be eligible
for the city to assume maintenance and ownership of such utilities once
construction has been completed. Developers, contractors, builders, or other
persons responsible for the proposed utilities, shall submit design
calculations, drawings and specifications for the city for review and shall be
responsible for all city review fees. Utility designs shall be in accordance
with the city’s specifications for water and sewer utilities which are attached
to Ord. 845-21 and incorporated by reference as part of this code of ordinances
as fully as if set out at length herein. Once the proposed designs have been
approved by the city, construction of utilities shall be inspected as it
progresses and approved by the city before acceptance as part of the city’s
water and/or sewer system.
(Ord. 845-21, passed 7-12-2021)
CHAPTER 51: GAS AND NATURAL GAS
Section
   
51.01   Tap fees
   
51.02   Gas rates
   
51.03   Billing, payment, and the like
   
51.04   Establishing a Natural Gas Pipeline Damage Prevention Program
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 TAP FEES.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to tap or connect with the
mains of the City Gas Department shall pay to the city, with application for
service, a tap fee in the sum of $500.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation making application for city gas
service shall pay to the city a deposit of $100 to be refunded by the city to
said consumer if and when said consumer leaves the city and/or ceases to be a
gas consumer of the City Gas Department, and after all sums owing to the City
Gas Department for gas service have been paid and satisfied in full.
      (2)   The deposit may be applied by the city to any bills owed the city
by the consumer in the event the consumer fails to pay or satisfy charges
against him or her for gas service.
(Ord. 442, passed 7-6-1964)
§ 51.02 GAS RATES.
   All gas rates of the City Gas Department are fluctuating rates based on
cost.
(Ord. 473, passed 2-10-1970)
§ 51.03 BILLING, PAYMENT, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   There shall be no free gas service in the city and environs and all
service in the city and environs shall be metered.
   (B)   (1)   All multiple connections within the city shall pay a minimum
bill and any future revisions thereafter for each unit served by the master
meter. When multiple connections are served by a master meter, the total
reading of the master meter shall be divided by the number of units served by
the master meter to arrive at an average consumption per unit.
      (2)   This average consumption will be billed at the regular rates and
any future revisions thereof. The average bill shall then be multiplied by the
number of units served by the master meter to arrive at the total billing for
the multiple connection.
   (C)   (1)   All gas customers within the city and environs shall be billed
by the City Gas Department on the first day of each month for the gas which
they have consumed, and said bills and charges for gas services shall be due
and payable upon receipt by the customer and shall be paid on or before the
20th day of the month following that in which the gas was consumed. To all
bills not paid by the 20th day of the month following that in which the service
is rendered, a 10% penalty shall be added and collected upon payment of said
bill.
      (2)   All bills remaining unpaid for a period of 15 days from the 20th
day of the month following the month in which the gas was consumed and service
rendered shall be deemed delinquent and the service shall be immediately
disconnected by cutting off the gas at the city’s meter. Service shall not be
reinstated until all past due charges for gas service, penalties, and service
charge of $20 during regular hours and $20 after hours for resuming service
shall have been paid to the city by the customer or someone in his or her
behalf.
   (D)   There shall be a service charge of $250 for reinstallation of service
after a customer voluntarily discontinues service for the summer months.
   (E)   Before a new customer connects on the city gas system, he, she, or it
shall deposit the sum of $100 with the City Gas Department, said amount to be
refunded when service is discontinued and all existing bills and penalties have
been paid in full.
(Ord. 476, passed 3-16-1970)
§ 51.04 ESTABLISHING A NATURAL GAS PIPELINE DAMAGE PREVENTION PROGRAM.
   (A)   (1)   Before any party or parties shall excavate, blast, bore, tunnel,
backfill, or remove above- ground structures by either mechanical or explosive
means or engage in other earth-moving operations in the city, such party or
parties shall file an application for a permit for such activity, providing the
following information: the name of the owner of the property; the location of
the property; the nature of the excavation planned and the manner in which it
will be completed; and the approximate time such excavation will be performed.
      (2)   (a)   This application shall be filed with the City Gas Department,
City-County Building, Scottsville, Kentucky.
         (b)   The applications shall be indexed in the names of the property
owners. Applications shall be filed at least 24 hours, excluding Saturdays,
Sundays, and holidays, prior to the beginning of any excavation activity.
   (B)   (1)   The city shall compile and maintain in a current status the
names and addresses of parties who normally engage in excavation activities in
the city.
      (2)   The list shall be updated on an annual basis. Such parties shall be
given actual notice of this section by certified mail.
   (C)   Any party giving notice by application of his, her, or its intent to
excavate in areas having buried pipelines shall be given notice of the location
of such pipes by telephone and certified mail and the pipelines in the area
shall be marked by stakes having clear and identifiable signs marked gas line.
   (D)   Any pipeline that could be damaged by excavation activity shall be
thoroughly inspected by the City Gas Department before the pipes are covered or
backfilled. Any excavation by blasting shall be inspected for damage to the
line by a leakage survey of the affected area.
   (E)   The general public shall be notified of this program by periodic
publication of the pertinent provisions of this section and by broadcasting the
same via local radio.
   (F)   The city may elect to participate in a public service program or one-
call system.
(Ord. 581, passed 4-11-1983) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person or party found guilty of the violation of §
51.04 shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $100 for each offense.
(Ord. 264, passed 1-21-1954; Ord. 540, passed 2-19-1977; Ord. 581, passed 4-11-
1983)
CHAPTER 52: REFUSE
Section
   
52.01   Regulation of garbage and refuse collection
   
52.02   Garbage collection fees
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 REGULATION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The city will operate, maintain, and provide a method for the
collection and removal of garbage with its own facilities whereby refuse,
prepared garbage, and trash will be collected five days of each week, over
varying routes, Monday through Friday, from and after the effective date of
this section and any person, firm, corporation, business, private group, or
individual shall pay for said services as follows:
         (a)   Private residence. $12.36 per month;
         (b)   All retail and/or wholesale business establishments: weekly
pickup. $19.57 per month (minimum).
         (c)   Apartment houses, trailer courts, and commercial rental property
(more than two units). $12.36 per month per unit.
      (2)   The City Council shall promulgate and enforce any and all
reasonable rules and regulations deemed necessary or proper from time to time
to carry out the objects and purposes of this section and for the health and
welfare of the citizens of the city.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the City Code Enforcement Officer to
enforce the provisions of this section against violations or infractions
thereof.
      (4)   (a)   It shall be the duty of the citizens or property owners to
deposit all garbage to be picked up at the designated location adjacent to his
or her premises, enclosed in a metal or durable plastic garbage can or other
suitable container that does not expose the contents to view.
         (b)   The trash can to be used shall have a capacity of not more than
32 gallons, and shall be equipped with at least two carrying handles, a tight-
fitting cover, or as shall otherwise be prescribed by the City Council.
         (c)   Garbage cans shall be made of metal or other substantial
material, leak-proof and water-tight; shall have a capacity of approximately 32
gallons, and shall be equipped with an adequate carrying bail and tight-fitting
cover.
      (5)   The city shall have the right to deny refuse collection, removal,
or disposal service to any person whose refuse requirements are sufficiently
abnormal or different in the determination of the City Council or Health
Officer of the city as to justify special handling in which case a special
charge shall be made. This shall include those buildings or dwellings not
readily accessible to refuse collectors, or in cases where refuse is not found
in standard containers or all such users as require service more frequently
than that regularly scheduled.
      (6)   Any user deemed to require facilities and service for garbage and
trash removal grossly in excess of the weight and space capacity of city
facilities, shall, in such instance, be subject to a reasonable charge for the
removal of the excess thereof. In such event, and upon application, a majority
of the City Council may cause to be issued a permit which will entitle such
user to, in accordance with an approved schedule, provided for the trash and
garbage to be removed by other facilities and deposited in the area provided
for such disposal by the city, but such removal shall not commence, nor shall
it continue except within a definite term to be provided in such permit. All
separate contracts or agreements for the removal of trash and garbage by
facilities other than by the property owner or not owned by the city shall be
authorized only after a permit providing for the regulation of such removal has
been approved and issued by a majority vote of the City Council at a regular
meeting.
      (7)   The Water, Sewer, and Sanitation Department shall be charged with
the duty of mailing a statement on or before the first day of each month to
each person charged with refuse collection, removal, or disposal during the
preceding month, but failure to mail any statement for monthly charges shall
not be grounds for avoiding payment. If the fee, rate, or charge for any
monthly service charge is not paid within 15 days after the same is due, the
amount thereof shall then be delinquent and may be recovered by the city in any
appropriate action. Upon the failure of any person receiving such service to
pay for the same when due, the city may discontinue such service without
notice.
      (8)   The gross revenue derived from the charges prescribed by this
section shall be deposited to the credit of the garbage disposal system and
shall be used first for the payment of all expenses reasonably incurred in the
operation of the garbage disposal unit of the city and for the purchase of all
real and personal property required for the effective operation of the garbage
disposal system of the city as well as salaries for the employees of this
Department and all other reasonable and necessary expense pertaining thereto.
      (9)   The City Council shall have the right and recognizes its obligation
to revise the schedule of rates provided in this division (A) and to so adjust
the said rate in a manner that costs will be distributed as equitably as
possible among all citizens of the city on the basis of circumstances,
services, and requirements. At no time, however, shall rates be continued which
are disclosed to be producing less revenue than is required to meet all
obligations and costs involved in rendering refuse service to the public and
for the provisions of all facilities, real and personal, needed to operate and
maintain this system.
      (10)   The owners of real property in the city are responsible for the
payment of sanitation bills rendered by the city for services of water, sewer,
and sanitation in the hauling of trash and garbage from the premises.
      (11)   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or to permit
the accumulation of refuse in, about, or upon premises owned, occupied, or used
by them, when and if such accumulations shall be unsightly, unsanitary, or
hazardous to the property, life, health, safety, or welfare of the public.
         (b)   It shall be unlawful to deliver refuse to or upon private
property or to maintain a dump ground, either public or private, for the
deposit of garbage of any kind.
         (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of trash within
the corporate limits of the city of elsewhere, except at the landfill site
maintained by the city.
         (d)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place, or scatter
any garbage, rubbish, trash, or other refuse over or upon any premises, street,
or alley, either public or private, or adjacent thereto and either with or
without the intent to later remove or burn, or to suffer or permit from the
accumulation of refuse, any premises owned, occupied, or controlled by any such
person to become or remain offensive, unsanitary, unsightly, unsafe to public
health, or hazardous from fire.
         (e)   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or permit the
accumulation of refuse on or about his or her premises, or the premises
occupied by them, unless such refuse is kept separately in standard trash and
garbage containers as defined in this division (A).
         (f)   It shall be unlawful for any municipal employee to collect or
remove, at city expense, any refuse from the premises of any person or tenant
thereof, unless such premises are equipped with standard containers referred to
in this division (A) and unless such refuse is kept stored in such containers.
      (12)   This division (A) shall be effective immediately upon final
passage, approval and publication.
   (B)   (1)   Effective April 9, 2002, the City’s Sanitation Department
employees will only pick up household garbage in containers that do not exceed
a maximum capacity of 32 gallons, except the Zarn 90-gallon containers that are
equipped for emptying into the garbage truck/compactor by the hydraulic lift
system installed on the city’s truck/compactor. Plastic bags of 30 gallons or
less placed inside a container will also be picked up.
      (2)   It is the duty and responsibility of all customers of the City’s
Sanitation Department to properly deposit all garbage at locations at the
premises for effective and efficient collection.
(Ord. 459, passed 4-8-1968; Ord. 691-02, passed 4-9-2002) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.02 GARBAGE COLLECTION FEES.
   The rates for garbage collection service shall be increased 20% with
residential service to be $12 per month and commercial and institutional
customers rates increased 20% beginning July 1, 2004.
(Ord. 711-04, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
52.01(A), or failing or refusing to abide by and comply with the rules or
regulations promulgated to effectuate the provision of §
52.01 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $5, or more than $50 and
costs. Each succeeding day a violation of §
52.01 exists shall constitute a new and separate offense.
(Ord. 459, passed 4-8-1968)
CHAPTER 53: WATER AND SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Consolidated water and sewer system
Water
   
53.15   Construction of water mains generally
   
53.16   Water conservation
   
53.17   Fluoride treatment into Waterworks
   
53.18   Tap fees
Sewer
   
53.30   Regulation and use of sanitary sewer system
   
53.31   Operation of city’s sanitary sewer system
   
53.32   Use of city property, streets, and alleys; easements use for sewer
system
   
53.33   Precluding hooking or connecting gutters or downspouts to sewer system
   
53.34   Drainage connections
   
53.35   Sewer rates
   
53.36   Unsanitary disposals
Sanitary Sewer and Wastewater Treatment Plant System
   
53.50   Objectives
   
53.51   Administration
   
53.52   Abbreviations
   
53.53   Definitions
   
53.54   General sewer use requirements
   
53.55   Pretreatment of wastewater
   
53.56   Individual wastewater permits
   
53.57   Individual wastewater permit issuance
   
53.58   Reporting requirements
   
53.59   Compliance monitoring
   
53.60   Confidential information
   
53.61   Publication of users in significant noncompliance
   
53.62   Administrative enforcement remedies
   
53.63   Judicial enforcement remedies
   
53.64   Affirmative defenses to discharge violations
   
53.65   Pretreatment charges and fees
   
53.66   Effective date
 
   
53.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 CONSOLIDATED WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   (a)   The works and facilities supplying water and sewer services
in and to said city as they presently exist and as they may hereafter from time
to time be constructed and extended are hereby combined and consolidated as a
municipal Waterworks and sewer system, and so long as any of the revenue bonds
authorized pursuant to this division (A) or permitted to be issued remain
outstanding, said combined and consolidated municipal Waterworks and sewer
system shall be owned, controlled, operated, and maintained on a combined and
consolidated basis for the security and source of payment of said revenue
bonds.
         (b)   The combined and consolidated municipal Waterworks and sewer
system is hereby declared to constitute a public project within the meaning and
application of KRS Ch. 58 (§§ 58.010 to 58.140, inclusive).
      (2)   This division (A) shall take effect from and after is adoption,
approval, and publication as provided by law.
   (B)   Consolidated water and sewer system; prohibiting unauthorized disposal
of sewage; rates; and the like.
      (1)   Generally. No free use of the services and facilities of the system
shall be granted or permitted to any user thereof, including the city itself.
      (2)   All water service to be metered. It is the purpose and intention
that all water service provided by the system shall be furnished through water
meters provided and installed by the city.
      (3)   When sewer service available. For the purpose of this division (B),
the following definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
         MUNICIPAL SEWER SERVICE. Being available to any premises if such
premises abut upon any street, road, alley, public way, or easement in which
there exists a sewer pipe, main, lateral, or other structure or installation of
the sewer system capable or receiving flowable wastes, or if there is a city
sewer within 250 feet of such premises.
      (4)   Connection with sewer system required.
         (a)   All owners and occupants of premises where existing sewers are
available, as defined pursuant to this division (B), shall, within 90 days from
the date of the publication of this division (B), connect therewith all
sanitary sewerage drain pipes of such premises; and all owners and occupants of
premises where new sewers are hereafter made available, as defined in this
division (B), shall, within 90 days from the date a new sewer line is installed
and placed in operation, connect therewith all sanitary sewerage drain pipes of
such premises.
         (b)   All connections shall be made under such regulations as the city
may establish from time to time in conformity with this division (B). Failure
to effect such connection is hereby declared to be unlawful and to constitute a
nuisance. No stormwater drain shall remain connected nor be connected with any
separate sanitary sewer heretofore or hereafter constructed as, or made a part
of the sewer system of the city, nor shall any stormwater be otherwise
introduced into any such separate sanitary sewer.
         (c)   No sewer tap shall be made by any person, firm, or corporation,
except the city or its agent or a qualified contractor or plumber whose work
will be approved by the city. The city will, upon application and payment of
the fee or charge prescribed pursuant to this division (B), cause the sewer to
be tapped and run a lateral to the property line of any applicant where sewers
are available, and any and all installations or attachments thereto shall be
made by the applicant under the directions and supervision of the city;
provided, that nothing pursuant to this division (B) shall be construed as
requiring the city to furnish a sewer connection or sewer services to any
premises where a city sewer is not available at the time the application is
made.
      (5)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, and septic tanks abolished where sewers
available.
         (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain a
privy, vault, cesspool, septic tank, or similar contrivance for the reception
of flowage sewage where sewers are available, and all such privies, toilets,
facilities, and contrivances shall be removed by the owners and the occupants
of premises where sewers are presently available, or as soon as the same may
hereafter be made available
         (b)   All such privies or surface toilets, or other means of casting
or depositing sewerage into a container above or below the surface of the
ground, or upon or into the soil or into any running or percolating stream of
water or into any cistern or well whereby the soil is contaminated with such
sewerage, are hereby declared to be unlawful and to constitute a nuisance.
      (6)   New construction to provide for sewer connection. All architects,
contractors, builders, or other persons who shall hereafter erect new premises
where sewers are available shall, before erecting the same, exhibit to the city
satisfactory evidence that a means has been or will be provided for connecting
the sanitary sewerage drain from such building or structure with the municipal
sewer system.
      (7)   Sewer service rates and charges to be collected as to all premises
where such service is made available.
         (a)   The rates and charges prescribed pursuant to this division (B)
for sewer service shall be made to and collected from the owner or occupant of
all premises within said city where sewer service is available as defined
pursuant to this division (B), whether such premises are connected with the
municipally-owned sewer pipes or not.
         (b)   In the case of unconnected premises which are water customers of
the municipally- owned water system, the rates and charges for sewer service
shall be according to the schedule of sewer rates as set forth pursuant to this
division (B). In the case of unconnected premises which are not water customers
of the said municipal water system, a minimum monthly sewer charge of $17.47
shall apply.
         (c)   The fact that sewer charges may have been billed to or collected
from any such unconnected premises shall not have any bearing upon, nor
constitute a defense to any criminal charge arising out of failure to connect
such premises to the system, but such monetary charges are and shall be deemed
to be civil exactions toward the costs of making sewer facilities available,
and the costs of operating and maintaining the same in the necessary interests
of the public health, safety, and general welfare.
      (8)   Service rates, charge rates, and charges.
         (a)   Temporary special arrangements. In the matter of furnishing
water service upon a temporary basis to circuses, carnivals, tent meetings,
outdoor athletic events (other than those carried on by the public schools),
and other miscellaneous temporary uses, or for particular special purposes, a
flat rate may be fixed in each individual case and the service charge shall be
paid in advance.
         (b)   Exceptions in application of sewer charge. The city recognizes
certain exceptional situations wherein adjustments in the manner of applying
sewer service charges should be permitted, and provision is made for the same,
as follows.
            1.   Where more than 20% of the water used by the owner or occupant
of any premises during the year does not flow into the sanitary or combined
sewer, the percentage in excess of 20% shall be excluded from the calculation
of the sewer service rates and charges provided in this section. It shall be
the burden of the owner or occupant of any such premises to prove to the city
that more than 20% of the water on such premises during the year does not flow
into the sanitary or combined sewer, and such burden shall be deemed to be met
only upon a showing by the sewer user, to the satisfaction of the city, that
the quantity thereof is accurately measured by means of a standard water meter.
In the event the sewer user has no such evidence, a water meter for such
purpose may be provided by the city upon payment by the sewer user of the cost
of the necessary equipment and all expenses of installation. In no case,
however, shall the sewer service rates and charges provided pursuant to this
division (B) be calculated upon less than 20% of the water used by the owner or
occupant of any premises during the year.
            2.   Whenever it is determined by the city to be necessary to
classify any commercial institutions or industries by reason of the unusual
purpose for which water is used, or the character of the sewage, water, or
other liquid wastes discharged therefrom, or when ever the established
schedules of sewer service rate and charges for any reason are not applicable,
then special sewer service rates, rentals, or other charges may be established
by the City Council upon recommendation of the city’s consulting engineers. The
city, upon advice of its consulting engineers, may take such action thereon as
it sees fit.
            3.   Sewer service charges shall not apply to bills representing
surplus water furnished at wholesale to other municipalities, communities, or
water systems, but if any municipality, community, or other entity shall desire
to make arrangements for disposal of all or a part of its flowable sewage
wastes through sewer lines or facilities of the city, the same shall be only
upon the basis of special contract specifically approved and authorized in each
instance by ordinance or resolution duly adopted by the city’s governing body.
The city recognizes no obligation or duty of any sort to enter into any such
contract or arrangement and may entertain or refuse to entertain any such
proposal as it sees fit, and regardless of the fact that it may in the past
have seen fit, or may in the future see fit to act otherwise or upon different
terms in any other similar or dissimilar cases.
      (9)   When rates and charges effective; status of existing rates and
charges. The water and sewer service rates and charges prescribed pursuant to
this division (B) shall become effective as follows.
         (a)   Effective dates of water rates and charges. The water service
rates and charges prescribed pursuant to this division (B) shall be effective
on after July 1, 1970.
         (b)   Effective dates of sewer service rates and charges. The sewer
service rates and charges prescribed pursuant to this division (B) shall be
effective on and after July 1, 1970.
         (c)   Existing rates.
            1.   It is hereinabove provided that the prescribed rates and
charges for water service and for sewer service are to become effective as
applied to bills rendered on and after specified dates. It is the intention
that the rates and charges prescribed pursuant to this division (B) shall
superseded any rates and charges presently in force under existing ordinances,
resolutions, rules, and regulations; but it is not intended that the rates and
charges presently in force be rescinded unless and until effectively replaced
or superseded; nor that there shall ever be a period of time when no lawful
rate or charge for water service or sewer service prevails.
            2.   Subject to the provisions of this division (B), it is ordained
that presently prevailing rates, charges, rules, and regulations continue in
force until lawfully superseded.
      (10)   When bills due; disconnection of water service and reconnection;
interest; and other provisions.
         (a)    The rates or charges as aforesaid shall be billed monthly in
the case of metered users,
and not less frequently than quarterly in the case of special users and the
water bill and sewer bill shall be rendered at the same time and on the same
bill forms, but as separate charges, and all bills for such service shall be
due and payable when rendered. If not paid by the tenth of the month following
the date rendered, the bill shall be delinquent, and a delay penalty equal to
10% of the face amount of the bill shall become due and payable; provided,
however, that if the tenth day should fall upon a Sunday or a legal holiday,
then the face amount of the bill may be paid on the next secular day which is
not a holiday.
         (b)   If the entire bill for both water service and sewer service,
together with said penalty of 10% thereof shall remain unpaid for a period of
20 days after the mailing of the bills, then pursuant to authority of KRS
96.934, the water service connection to the premises shall be disconnected,
whether the same customer’s water service bill has been paid or not.
         (c)   If any such delinquent customer shall thereafter desire
reconnection, a charge in the sum of $20 is hereby fixed to cover the expense
thereof, and prior to such reconnection, the customer shall be required to pay
the delinquent bill, the 10% penalty, and the said charge for reconnection.
Whether or not any premises are disconnected because of such delinquency, the
City Attorney or any attorney duly authorized to act for it by the city is
hereby authorized and directed to enforce and collect the amount of any bills
remaining delinquent for 30 days after penalty is added (including the penalty
and court costs) by suit in any court of competent jurisdiction.
      (11)   To whom bills are rendered.
         (a)   Bills for water service shall be rendered to the party, whether
owner of the premises or a tenant, filing a written application therefor on the
prescribed form, and complying with such deposit or other security provision
form as may be prescribed.
         (b)   In the case of sewer service to premises which are connected to
the municipal water system, the bill for sewer service charges shall be
rendered to the water customer.
         (c)   In other cases, sewer rates and charges aforesaid shall be
billed to the owners of the premises, except that upon application by the
tenant of any premises, who is not the owner thereof, filed with the city,
accompanied by a cash deposit or other appropriate security, or indemnity in an
amount or a kind approved by the city, such bills may be rendered to such
tenant.
      (12)   Connection charges. If more than 200 feet of water main extension
is required, the cost of all in excess of 200 feet shall be borne by the
customer, and such cost as estimated by the city shall be deposited with the
city in cash when application is approved; subject to refund by the city if the
deposit exceed actual cost, and subject to requirement of a supplemental
payment by the customer if the deposit is known to be insufficient.
      (13)   Certain substances not to be discharged into sewers.
         (a)   No substance shall be placed or discharged into the municipal
sewer system which will create a combustible, gaseous, explosive, or
inflammable condition in said system, nor shall any substances or objects be
placed or discharged into the municipal sewer system which will not dissolve
and which will thus cause an obstruction and clogging within said system.
         (b)   No petroleum products shall be placed or discharged into the
municipal sewer system.
      (14)   Notice taken of statutory requirements.
         (a)   Nothing set forth in this division (B) shall be construed in
such manner as to conflict with the requirements set forth in KRS Ch. 58 and in
the ordinance authorizing the issuance of said city water and service system
Revenue Bonds, Series 1969, that the rents, royalties, fees, rates, and charges
for the services rendered by the system shall be fixed and revised from time to
time so as to be sufficient to provide for payment of interest upon all bonds
and to create a Sinking Fund to pay the principal thereof when due, and to
provide for the operation and maintenance of the system, and adequate reserve,
depreciation, and improvement accounts.
         (b)   It is expressly declared that rates and charges set forth
pursuant to this division (B) are initial only, and are not contractual, but
will be increased, if increase should be required at any time, or from time to
time, to comply with the requirements set forth in the statutes and in said
ordinance.
      (15)   Effective date. This division (B) shall be effective upon its
adoption, approval, and publication, as provided by law.
(Ord. 316, passed 10-3-1960; Ord. 443, passed 7-6-1964; Ord. 469, passed 11-17-
1969; Ord. 711-04, passed 6-7-2004) Penalty, see §
53.99
Cross-reference:
   Sewer rates, see §
53.35
WATER
§ 53.15 CONSTRUCTION OF WATER MAINS GENERALLY.
   (A)   After the enactment and publication of this section, all newly
installed water mains in the city shall be a minimum of six inches in diameter.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to water pipes connecting customers’
plumbing to the city mains.
   (C)   After the effective date of this section, water service may be refused
to any area where water mains are installed that fail to comply with this
section.
(Ord. 542, passed 3-14-1977)
§ 53.16 WATER CONSERVATION.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to establish procedures for the
equitable distribution and rationing for water supplied by the city Waterworks
system.
   (B)   The water rationing provisions of this section shall become effective
upon a declaration by the city which shall occur upon the water level in the
Maysville Road tank being reduced to a level of 20 feet or the water level in
the White Plains tank being reduced to a level of ten feet.
   (C)   Upon the occurrence of the initiating provision of division (B) above,
the city shall issue a water rationing declaration to all local print and
electronic media to notify customers of the imposition of rationing.
   (D)   Residential customers of the city’s water system shall be allotted a
base entitlement of 80% of the customer’s average monthly usage for the last
six months, except customers using the 2,000 gallons minimum or less.
   (E)   Nonresidential customers (commercial, industrial, institutional,
public, and all other users except hospitals and health care facilities) shall
be allotted a base entitlement of 80% of the water usage for the last month of
unrationed use.
   (F)   During the effective periods of this section, no lawns, gardens,
crops, trees, or shrubs shall be watered except at nurseries or businesses
engaged in the production and sale of such items.
   (G)   No motor vehicles, machinery, or equipment shall be washed except at
places of business engaged in the washing of such items.
   (H)   No swimming pools shall be filled.
   (I)   In the event that the mandated reduction in water usage required by
this section cannot be obtained without imposing a threat to health and safety
or a permanent damage to property or economic loss substantially more severe
than the sacrifices borne by other water users, ay customer may apply to the
city for a variance.
   (J)   Any customer who exceeds the rationed, allotted base entitlement
established by this section shall be subject to an excess use charge of $25 per
1,000 gallons for each 1,000 gallons or portion thereof per month.
   (K)   For the first excess use, a warning of possible disconnect shall be
issued to the customer. For a second or subsequent excess use, service to the
customer may be shut off and disconnected for a period of 48 hours and a
reconnect service fee of $50 shall be imposed.
   (L)   The rationing provisions contained pursuant to this section shall
cease and terminate upon the water level in the Maysville Road tank reaching a
sustained level of 35 feet for a 48-hour period.
   (M)   Any customer who has been subjected to the excess use charges or
disconnect provisions of this section may request a hearing before the Mayor,
City Superintendent, City Attorney, and Chief Operator of the Water Treatment
Plant.
(Ord. 658-97, passed 7-29-1997) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.17 FLUORIDE TREATMENT INTO WATERWORKS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Waterworks shall be authorized, directed, and empowered
to obtain and use fluoride in the process of treating of said public water
system for consumption and use by the consumers receiving water from said
source through the facilities of said system in accordance with the
specifications, plans, and recommendations of the Commonwealth Board of Health.
      (2)   This division (A) shall be and become in full force and effect upon
its passage, approval, and publication as the law directs.
   (B)   Upon receiving the consent and approval of the Commonwealth Board of
Health, is hereby authorized and directed to provide the means and to proceed
with the introduction of approximately 0.6 to 1.0 parts of fluoride to every
million parts of water being distributed in the water supply system of the
city.
(Ord. 262, passed 6-6-1953; Ord. 313, passed 8-29-1960)
§ 53.18 TAP FEES.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation tapping or connecting with the mains
of the City Water Department shall pay to the city, with application for
service, a tap fee in the sum of $500.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation making application for city
water service shall pay to the city a deposit of $50 to be refunded by the city
to said consumer, if and when said consumer leaves the city and/or ceases to be
a water consumer of the City Water Department, and after all sums owing to the
City Water Department for water service have been paid and satisfied in full.
      (2)   The deposit may be applied by the city to any bills owed the city
by the consumer in the event the consumer fails to pay or satisfy charges
against him or her for water service.
(Ord. 443, passed 7-6-1964)
SEWER
§ 53.30 REGULATION AND USE OF SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Any commercial or public facility engaged in the manufacture,
processing, preparation, or service of food or food products shall have an
appropriate grease trap as defined at KRS 211.970(4). Wastewater drain piping
from food processing equipment, sinks for washing of food, equipment and
utensils, mop or cleaning sinks, hand sinks, dishwashers, floor drains, and
ventilation systems and filters in food preparation and processing areas, shall
be separated from other wastewater piping and shall be discharged into grease
trap prior to introduction into the sanitary sewer system of the city. The
grease trap shall be a minimum size of 1,000 gallons and be located as close as
practicable to the source of the wastewater. The grease trap shall be of
substantial construction, water-tight, and with removable covers.
   (B)   Grease traps shall be maintained in continuously efficient operating
condition at all times.
   (C)   Grease traps shall be pumped and emptied on a regular basis before
complete filling to prevent any overflow, backflow, or wastewater piping
stoppage, at a minimum of every three months.
   (D)   (1)   All users shall maintain records of the pumping and emptying of
the grease trap and shall provide such records for inspection by
representatives of the city to ensure compliance with this section.
      (2)   All users shall deliver to the city such releases or authorizations
as necessary to enable the city’s verification of the pumping and emptying of
grease traps.
   (E)   (1)   Within 90 days after the enactment and publication of this
section, all users shall file a plan for compliance and a copy of a contract
for the installation of the necessary grease trap.
      (2)   All users shall be in compliance with the provisions on this
section on or before 180 days after its publication.
(Ord. 755-09, passed 6-15-2009)
§ 53.31 OPERATION OF CITY’S SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   There shall be no connections permitted to the city’s sanitary sewer
service system unless and until the property owner or its contractors have
demonstrated to the city’s inspectors that a backflow prevention check valve
assembly designed to prevent the backflow of sewage into the improvements on
the property has been properly installed.
   (B)   The aforesaid backflow check valve shall be installed between the
cleanout fitting and the building to be serviced.
(Ord. 744-07, passed 1-14-2008) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.32 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, STREETS, AND ALLEYS; EASEMENTS USE FOR SEWER
SYSTEM.
   (A)   All property, streets, and alleys owned by the city may be used for
the construction of additions to the sewer system of the city.
   (B)   Since all of its sewer lines and pumping stations have been in open,
peaceable, continuous, and adverse use by the city, with the acquiescence in
such use by the owners of the property upon which the sewer lines and pumping
stations are located for a period of time exceeding 15 years, the city has
acquired easements for such sewer lines and pumping stations by prescription.
(Ord. 507, passed 7-8-1974; Ord. 649-96, passed 4-8-1996)
§ 53.33 PRECLUDING HOOKING OR CONNECTING GUTTERS OR DOWNSPOUTS TO SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   No city sewer user, resident, or any person shall connect or hook on
any gutters or down spouts or other such drainage devises to the city sewer
system and any such connections now in existence shall forthwith be
disconnected.
   (B)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this section shall subject
the violator to the sanction of having the city discontinue sewer and water
services.
(Ord. 512, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.34 DRAINAGE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   From and after the establishment of a sewer system in the city, all
owners and occupants of houses, hotels, manufacturing, or commercial
establishments, or any building of any kind, situated upon lots abutting upon
any street or alley in which there is established a sewer line which is a part
of the sanitary sewer system of the city, shall connect therewith all sewage
drainpipes of such houses, hotels, manufacturing, or commercial establishment,
or other buildings conveying human sewage therefrom; such connections to be
under such regulations as the city may establish by ordinance, and to fail to
do so, is hereby declared to be unlawful and to be a nuisance.
   (B)   All architects, contractors, builders, or other persons who shall
apply to the city for permits to erect new buildings or repair old buildings
shall exhibit to the city before such permit is granted, satisfactory evidence
that such applicant has provided means of connecting, or will as soon as
practicable, connect the sanitary sewage drain from the proposed building with
said sewer system; provided such building to be erect or repaired shall be
situated on a lot abutting on a street or alley in which there is located a
lateral of such sewer system.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain a privy, vault,
cesspool, or similar contrivance for the reception of human excreta or other
sewage when the premises abut upon a public sewer lateral in either street or
alley and all such privies or toilets shall be removed by the owners and the
occupants of said property abutting on any street or alley on which runs a
sewer lateral and to which the drainage from such premises may be connected on
or before the establishment of the municipal sewer system.
      (2)   All such privies or surface toilets or other similar means of
casting or depositing the excretions of the human bowels or kidneys or other
sewage upon or into the soil or into any running or percolating stream of water
or into any cistern well or sink whereby the soil is contaminated with such
sewage, are hereby
[missing text]
(Ord. 106, passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.35 SEWER RATES.
   (A)   Compliance with federal regulations for the implementation of user
charges.
      (1)   Sewer service charges.
         (a)   Generally.
            1.   Sewer service charges shall be charges levied on all users who
discharge, cause, or permit the discharge of sewage into the public sewage
treatment system.
            2.   Sewer service charges shall be comprised of a system of user
charges, excessive strength, or toxicity surcharges and a system of charges for
debt service.
         (b)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (A)(1), the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
            CHARGES FOR DEBT SERVICES. Charge levied on users of the sewage
treatment system to support the annual debt service obligations of the system.
            EXCESSIVE STRENGTH OR TOXICITY SURCHARGES. Charges levied on users
of the sewage treatment system whose contribution contains pollutants (both
conventional and toxic) in concentrations which exceed limits specified by
latest city sewer use ordinance for such pollutants.
            USER CHARGES. Charges levied on users of the sewage system to
offset the cost of operations and maintenance of the system.
      (2)   Sewer rates.
         (a)   The following schedule of rates shall apply to each user of the
sewage treatment system. This schedule includes the rate for user charges as
established in this division (A)(2) and the rate for debt service charge, each
based on the volume of metered water consumption unless otherwise noted.
         (b)   Sewer rate schedule for city customers are the same as water
rates.
         (c)   1.   Sewer rates provided in this division (A)(2) are based on
the underlying assumption that all metered water consumption in eventually
returned to the sewage treatment system. Where it can be evidenced that the
proportion of water actually returned to the treatment system by an individual
customer is significantly different from the metered consumption, service
charges shall be determined on the basis of measured or estimated wastewater
discharge.
            2.   The city reserves the right to determine by whatever means and
methods it may find practicable, the amount of water consumption, and/or
wastewater discharge that shall be used to compute sewer service charges.
         (d)   Users having a discharge over the normal sewage strength of 300
mg/l total suspended solids and/or 250 mg/l biochemical oxygen demand shall
incur an additional charge of $.066 per pound of biochemical oxygen demand and
$0.055 per pound of suspended solids.
      (3)   Method of billing.
         (a)   Sewer service charge shall be billed to each user on a monthly
basis and shall be computed in accordance with each user’s water consumption
and strength or toxicity of discharge during the billed-for period.
         (b)   No reduction in sewer charges, fees, or taxes shall be permitted
in the event that certain wastes discharged to the sewage treatment system
contain pollutants in less concentrations than specified maximum limitations.
         (c)   Each user shall be notified, at least annually, in conjunction
with a regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the total charge which is
attributable to operations and maintenance of the sewage system.
         (d)   Sewer charges to any customer who is initially rendered services
for less than one month shall be pro-rated on the basis of the foregoing
charges for the fractional part of the month for which services were rendered.
      (4)   Rate review.
         (a)   The city shall review rates as follows:
            1.   The city shall review not less often than every two years the
sewage contributions of users, the total cost of operation and maintenance of
the sewage works, and user charges; and
            2.   User charges shall be revised as necessary to accomplish the
following:
               a.   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operations and
maintenance cost among users of the treatment system; and
               b.   Generate sufficient revenues to offset costs associated
with the proper operation and maintenance of the sewage system.
         (b)   Excessive strength and toxicity surcharges shall be reviewed at
the time of and in conjunction with the review of user charges. Surcharge rates
shall be revised where necessary to reflect current treatment and monitoring
costs.
   (B)   Sewer use charge.
      (1)   (a)   It is determined and declared to be necessary and conducive
to the protection of the public health, safety, welfare, and convenience of the
city to collect charges from all users who contribute wastewater to the city
treatment works.
         (b)   The proceeds of such charges so derived will be used for the
purpose of operating and maintain the public wastewater treatment works.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (B), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         BOD (DENOTING BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter
(mg/l).
         COMMERCIAL USER. All retail stores, restaurants, office buildings,
laundries, and other private business and service establishments.
         DEBT SERVICE. Charges levied on users of the wastewater treatment
works to support the annual debt service obligations of the system.
         GOVERNMENTAL USER. Includes legislative, judicial, administrative, and
regulatory activities of federal, state, and local governments.
         INDUSTRIAL USER (IU). A source of indirect discharge which does not
constitute a discharge of pollutants under regulations issued pursuant to § 402
of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
         INSTITUTIONAL USER. Includes social, charitable, religious, and
educational activities such as schools, churches, hospitals, nursing homes,
penal institutions, and similar institutional users.
         NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater that has a BOD concentration of
not more than 200 mg/l and a suspended solids concentration of not more than
200 mg/l and any other pollutant to be determined.
         OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Those junctions that result in expenditures
during the useful life of the treatment works for materials, labor, utilities,
and other items which are necessary for managing and for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes
REPLACEMENT as stated below.
         REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
         RESIDENTIAL USER. Any contributor to the Scottsville Treatment Works
whose lot, parcel, or real estate, or building is used for domestic dwelling
purposes only.
         SHALL. Is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
         SS (DENOTING SUSPENDED SOLIDS). Solids that either float on the
surface of or are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids and which
are removable by laboratory filtering.
         TREATMENT WORKS. Any devices and systems for the storage, treatment,
recycling, and reclamation of municipal wastewater, domestic wastewater, or
liquid industrial wastes. These include interception sewers, outfall sewers,
wastewater collection systems, pumping, power, and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions, and alterations
thereof elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply such as
standby treatment units and clearwell facilities; and any works, including site
acquisition of the land that will be an integral part of the treatment process
or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such treatment
(including land for composting sludge, temporary storage of such compost, and
land used for the storage of treated wastewater in land treatment systems
before land application); or any other method or system for preventing,
abating, reducing, storing, treating, separating, or disposing of municipal
waste or industrial waste, including waste in combined stormwater and sanitary
sewer systems.
         USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which a treatment works will
be operated.
         USER CHARGE. The total wastewater service charge which is levied in a
proportional and adequate manner for the cost of operation, maintenance,
replacement, and debt service expenses of the wastewater treatment works.
         WATER METER. A water volume measuring and recording device, furnished,
and/or installed by the city and approved by the Water/Sewer/Gas Department.
   (C)   The revenues collected, as a result of the user charges levied, shall
be deposited in a separate non-lapsing fund known as the Operation,
Maintenance, and Replacement Fund.
   (D)   Fiscal year-end balances in the Operation, Maintenance, and
Replacement Fund shall be used for no other purposes than those designated.
Monies which have been transferred from other sources to meet temporary
shortages in the Operation, Maintenance, and Replacement Fund shall be returned
to their respective accounts upon appropriate adjustment of the user charge
rates for operation, maintenance, and replacement. The user charge rate(s)
shall be adjusted such that the transferred monies will be returned to their
respective accounts within six months of the fiscal year in which the monies
were borrowed.
   (E)   (1)   The following schedule of user charge rates shall apply to each
user of the wastewater treatment works. This schedule includes rates for OM&R
and rates for debt service charges, each based on the volume of metered or
estimated water consumption.
 
Wastewater Services Monthly Rate Schedule
Water Consumption Total Gallons Minimum Bill
From  To
0     2,000                     $17.47
2,000 Over                      Same as water rates
 
      (2)   For residential, industrial, institutional, and commercial users,
monthly user charges will be based on actual water usage (100%). If a
residential, commercial, institutional, or industrial user has a consumptive
use of water, or, in some other manner, uses water which is not discharged into
the wastewater collection system, the user charge for that contributor may be
based on readings of a wastewater meter(s) or separate water meter(s) installed
and maintained at the user’s expense.
 
The City of Scottsville’s industrial pretreatment program is active. Should the
program become inactive, then divisions (E)(3) and (E)(4) below will be left
blank.
 
      (3)   (a)   For those users whose wastewater has a greater strength than
the normal domestic wastewater, a surcharge in addition to the normal use
charge will be collected.
         (b)   The following surcharge rates shall apply to each user of the
treatment works that has received permission from the Superintendent or his or
her designated authority to contribute excessive strength sewage.
 
Surcharge Rates
BOD          $0.24 per pound
SS           $0.18 per pound
Ammonia as N $1.10 per pound
 
      (4)   The excessive strength surcharge shall be based on a formula with
the total applied to the monthly bill of affected users.
 
Surcharge Formula
No reduction in wastewater service charges, fees, or taxes shall be permitted
because of the fact that certain wastes discharges to the wastewater works
contain less than 250_mg/l of BOD, 250.0 mg/l of SS or 20.0 mg/l of Ammonia as
N
 
   (F)   The City Finance Officer shall maintain financial records to
accurately account for revenues generated by the treatment system and
expenditures for operation and maintenance of the system, including normal
replacement costs.
   (G)   The city shall review not less often than annually the wastewater
contribution of users, the total cost of OM&R of the wastewater works, debt
service obligations, and user charge rates. Based on such review, the city
shall revise, when necessary, the schedule of user charge rates to accomplish
the following:
      (1)   Maintain an equitable distribution of OM&R costs among users of the
treatment system;
      (2)   Generate sufficient revenues to offset costs associated with the
proper operation and maintenance of the wastewater system and to meet debt
service requirements; and
      (3)   Excessive strength and toxicity surcharges shall be reviewed at the
time of and in conjunction with the review of user charges. Surcharge rates
shall be revised where necessary to reflect current treatment and monitoring
costs.
      (4)   Each user shall be notified, at least annually, in conjunction with
a regular bill of the rate and that portion of the total charge which is
attributable to OM&R of the wastewater system.
   (H)   (1)   All users shall be billed monthly. Billings for an particular
month shall be by the first of the month. Payments are due by the twentieth day
of the month. Any payment not received by the fifth of the following month
shall be considered delinquent.
      (2)   A late payment penalty of 10% of the user charge bill will be added
to each delinquent bill for each 30 days or portions thereof of delinquency.
When any bill is more than 30 days in default, water and/or wastewater service
to such premises shall be disconnected until such bill is paid.
   (I)   This section shall be in full force and effect immediately following
its passage, approval, and publication, as provided by law.
(Ord. 592, passed - -; Ord. 656-97, passed 5-5-1997) Penalty, see §
53.99
Cross-reference:
   Consolidated water and sewer system, see §
53.01
§ 53.36 UNSANITARY DISPOSALS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   It shall be unlawful to maintain or have any privy or
toilet without sewer connection within the city limits except what is known as
the commonwealth sanitary privy, the commonwealth concrete privy, the
commonwealth earth pit privy, the commonwealth concrete riser, or toilet with
the commonwealth septic tank.
         (b)   All privies or toilets in the city shall be constructed and
maintained in good working order and condition according to the requirements
and specifications provided and promulgated by the Commonwealth Board of
Health, which are hereby adopted and incorporated as part of this code of
ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein by this Council and which
will be furnished by the city on request when application by proper party is
made to the City Clerk or to the County Health Department.
      (2)   The plans and specifications approved by the Commonwealth Board of
Health are filed herewith and marked as follows:
         (a)   Exhibit A - commonwealth sanitary privy;
         (b)   Exhibit B - commonwealth concrete pit privy;
         (c)   Exhibit C - commonwealth earth pit privy;
         (d)   Exhibit D - commonwealth septic tank; and
         (e)   Exhibit E - commonwealth concrete riser.
   (B)   The County Health Department may exercise authority in providing such
supervision over the construction and maintenance or privies or toilets coming
within the meaning of this section as may be necessary for the protection of
public health, and inspect and report to the City Council privies or toilets in
accordance with this section.
(Ord. 80, passed 3-2-1933) Penalty, see §
53.99
SANITARY SEWER AND WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT SYSTEM
§ 53.50 OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Objectives generally. The objectives of this subchapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly-owned
treatment works that will interfere with its operation;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly-owned
treatment works that will pass through the publicly-owned treatment works,
inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or otherwise be incompatible with
the publicly-owned treatment works;
      (3)   To protect both publicly-owned treatment works personnel who may be
affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment and the
general public;
      (4)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge
from the publicly- owned treatment works; and
      (5)   To enable the city to comply with its national pollutant discharge
elimination system permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements, and
any other federal or commonwealth laws to which the publicly-owned treatment
works is subject.
   (B)   Applicability. This subchapter shall apply to all users of the
publicly-owned treatment works.
(Ord. 775-11, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 53.51 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, the Superintendent
shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Any powers granted to or duties imposed upon the Superintendent may be
delegated by the Superintendent to a duly authorized city employee.
(Ord. 775-11, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 53.52 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations, when used in this subchapter, shall have the
designated meanings.
Abbreviations
Abbreviations
BOD - biochemical oxygen demand
BMP - best management practice
BMR - baseline monitoring report
C.F.R. - Code of Federal Regulations
CIU - categorical industrial user
COD - chemical oxygen demand
EPA - U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
gpd - gallons per day
IU - industrial user
mg/l - milligrams per liter
NPDES - national pollutant discharge elimination system
NSCIU - non-significant categorical industrial user
POTW - publicly-owned treatment works
RCRA - Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.
SIU - significant industrial user
SNC - significant noncompliance
TSS - total suspended solids
U.S.C. - United States Code
 
(Ord. 775-11, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 53.53 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   AUTHORIZED OR DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER.
      (1)   If the user is a corporation:
         (a)   The President, Secretary, Treasurer, or a Vice-President of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operating facilities; provided, the manager is authorized to make management
decisions that govern the operation of the regulated facility, including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure
long-term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather
complete and accurate information for individual wastewater discharge permit
requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been assigned or
delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship, a general
partner or proprietor, respectively;
      (3)   If the user is a federal, commonwealth, or local governmental
facility, a director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the
operation and performance of the activities of the government facility or their
designee; or
      (4)   The individuals described in divisions (1) through (3) of this
definition may designate a DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE if the authorization
is in writing, the authorization specifies the individual or position
responsible for the overall operation of the facility from which the discharge
originates or having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the
company, and the written authorization is submitted to the City of Scottsville.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES or BMPs. Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to implement
the prohibitions listed in §
53.54(A) and
53.54(B) (see 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(a)(1) and (b)). BMPs include treatment
requirements, operating procedures, and practices to control plant site runoff,
spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or drainage from raw materials
storage. (Note: BMPs also include alternative means (i.e., management plans) of
complying with, or in place of certain established categorical pretreatment
standards and effluent limits.)
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20°C, usually expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/l).
   CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER. An industrial user subject to a categorical
pretreatment standard or categorical standard.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance with §
307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) that apply to a specific category
of users and that appear in 40 C.F.R. Ch. 1, Subchp. N, pts. 405 through 471.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or COD. A measure of the oxygen required to oxidize
all compounds, both organic and inorganic, in water.
   CITY. City of Scottsville, Kentucky.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The City of Scottsville.
   DAILY MAXIMUM. The arithmetic average of all effluent samples for a
pollutant collected during a calendar day.
   DAILY MAXIMUM LIMIT. The maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant
during a calendar day. Where DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITS are expressed in units of
mass, the daily discharge is the total mass discharged over the course of the
day. Where DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITS are expressed in terms of a concentration, the
daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant
concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or, where appropriate, the Regional Water Management Division Director,
the Regional Administrator, or other duly authorized official of said agency.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any source of discharge that is not a new source.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample that is taken from a wastestream without regard to the
flow in the wastestream and over a period of time not to exceed 15 minutes.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The introduction of pollutants into the
POTW from any nondomestic source.
   INSTANTANEOUS LIMIT. The maximum concentration of a pollutant allowed to be
discharged at any time, determined from the analysis of any discrete or
composited sample collected, independent of the industrial flow rate, and the
duration of the sampling event.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment
processes or operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
therefor, is a cause of a violation of the City of Scottsville’s NPDES permit
or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of
the following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued there under, or
any more stringent state or local regulations: § 405 of the Act, being 33
U.S.C. § 1345; the Solid Waste Disposal Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.,
including Title II commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act (RCRA); any state regulations contained in any state sludge
management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the Solid Waste Disposal
Act; the Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.; the Toxic Substances
Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.; and the Marine Protection,
Research, and Sanctuaries Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 1431 et seq. and 33 U.S.C. §§
1401 et seq.
    LOCAL LIMIT. Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by the City
of Scottsville upon industrial or commercial facilities to implement the
general and specific discharge prohibitions listed in 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(a)(1)
and 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(b).
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE. The sum of all daily discharges measured during a calendar
month divided by the number of daily discharges measured during that month.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE LIMIT. The highest allowable average of daily discharges
over a calendar month calculated as the sum of all daily discharges measured
during a calendar month divided by the number of daily discharges measured
during that month.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there
is (or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307(c) of the
Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(c) that will be applicable to such source if such
standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section; provided,
that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility, or installation is
constructed at a site which no other source is located;
         (b)   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. Determining whether these are
substantially independent factors, such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a NEW SOURCE if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the
criteria of divisions (1)(b) or (1)(c) above but otherwise alters, replaces, or
adds to existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a NEW SOURCE as defined under this division (3) has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous onsite
construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which
is necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source
facilities or equipment.
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering, and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation
under this division (3)(b).
      NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling that does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product, or
finished product.
      PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the City of Scottsville’s NPDES permit, including an increase in
the magnitude or duration of a violation.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents, or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state, and local governmental
entities.
      PH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in
standard units.
      POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter
backwash, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical
wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked, or
discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and
industrial wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH,
temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity, or odor).
      PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination
of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such pollutants into the POTW.
This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical, or
biological processes; by process changes; or by other means, except by diluting
the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
pretreatment standard.
      PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
      PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge standards,
categorical pretreatment standards, and local limits.
      PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in §
53.54(A).
      PUBLICLY-OWNED TREATMENT WORKS or POTW. A treatment works, as defined by
§ 212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is owned by the City of Scottsville.
This definition includes any devices or systems used in the collection,
storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes
of a liquid nature and any conveyances, which convey wastewater to a treatment
plant.
      SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels,
chemical toilets, campers, trailers, and septic tanks.
      SEWAGE. Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing
operations, and the like).
      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU). Except as provided in paragraphs (3)
and (4) of this section, a SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER is:
         (a)   An industrial user subject to categorical pretreatment
standards; and
         (b)   An industrial user that:
            1.   Discharges an average of 25,000 gpd or more of process
wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling, and boiler
blowdown wastewater);
            2.   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
            3.   Is designated as such by the City of Scottsville on the basis
that it has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation
or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
      SLUG LOAD or SLUG DISCHARGE. Any discharge at a flow rate or
concentration which could cause a violation of the prohibited discharge
standards in §
53.54(A). A SLUG DISCHARGE is any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature,
including, but not limited to, an accidental spill or a non-customary batch
discharge which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass
through, or in any other way violate the POTW’s regulations, local limits, or
permit conditions.
      STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
      SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the City of Scottsville to
supervise the operation of the POTW and who is charged with certain duties and
responsibilities by this subchapter. The term also means a duly authorized
representative of the SUPERINTENDENT.
      TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS or SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter
that floats on the surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other
liquid, and that is removable by
laboratory filtering.
      USER or INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge.
      WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
      WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW
which is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial
waste.
(Ord. 775-11, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 53.54 GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Prohibited discharge standards.
      (1)   General prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through
or interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW
whether or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any
other national, commonwealth, or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
      (2)   Specific prohibitions.
         (a)   No user shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the POTW
the following pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
            1.   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the
POTW, including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed-cup flashpoint
of less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. §
261.21;
            2.   Wastewater having a pH less than 5.5 or more than 9.0, or
otherwise causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
            3.   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause
obstruction of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference with the proper
operation of the sanitary sewer and wastewater treatment plant system of the
city;
            4.   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD, and
the like), released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant
concentration which, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants,
will cause interference with the POTW;
            5.   Wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F, or which
will inhibit biological activity in the treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
            6.   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
            7.   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases,
vapors, or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker
health and safety problems; and
            8.   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the Superintendent in accordance with §
53.55(C).
         (b)   Pollutants, substances, or wastewater prohibited by this section
shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged
to the POTW.
   (B)   National categorical pretreatment standards.
      (1)   Users must comply with the categorical pretreatment standards found
at 40 C.F.R. Ch. I, Subchp. N, pts. 405 through 471.
      (2)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the Superintendent
shall impose an alternate limit in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e).
   (C)   Commonwealth pretreatment standards. Users must comply with city
pretreatment standards codified at KRS Ch. 224 and Kentucky Administrative
Regulations thereto.
   (D)   Local limits.
      (1)   The Superintendent is authorized to establish local limits pursuant
to 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(c).
      (2)   (a)   The following pollutant limits are established to protect
against pass through and interference.
         (b)   No person shall discharge wastewater containing in excess of the
following daily maximum limit:
Arsenic              2.33
Cadmium              0.03
Chromium, Total      2.77
Chromium, Hexavalent 0.21
Copper               3.39
Cyanide              0.27
Iron                 10
Lead                 0.62
Mercury              0.007
Nickel               3.17
Selenium             0.22
Silver               1.01
Zinc                 1.74
 
         (c)   The above limits apply at the point where the wastewater is
discharged to the POTW. All concentrations for metallic substances are for
total metal unless indicated otherwise. The Superintendent may impose mass
limitations in addition to the concentration-based limitations above.
   (E)   City’s right of revision. The city reserves the right to establish, by
ordinance or in individual wastewater discharge permits, more stringent
standards or requirements on discharges to the POTW consistent with the purpose
of this subchapter.
   (F)   Dilution.
      (1)   No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way
attempt to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly
authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement.
      (2)   The Superintendent may impose limitations on users who are using
dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements or in other
cases when the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate.
(Ord. 775-11, passed 7-11-2011; Ord. 806-16, passed - -2016)
§ 53.55 PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Pretreatment facilities. Users shall provide wastewater treatment as
necessary to comply with this subchapter and shall achieve compliance with all
categorical pretreatment standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out
in §
53.53(A) within the time limitations specified by EPA, the commonwealth, or the
Superintendent, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for
compliance shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the user’s expense.
Detailed plans describing such facilities and operating procedures shall be
submitted to the Superintendent for review and shall be acceptable to the
Superintendent before such facilities are constructed. The review of such plans
and operating procedures shall in no way relieve the user from the
responsibility of modifying such facilities as necessary to produce a discharge
acceptable to the city under the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Additional pretreatment measures.
      (1)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil or sand, except that
such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interception
units shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent, shall
comply with the §
53.30, and shall be so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. Such interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned, and repaired in
accordance with §
53.30, by the user at their expense.
      (2)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
      (3)   Accidental discharge/slug discharge control plans.
         (a)   The Superintendent shall evaluate whether each SIU needs an
accidental discharge/slug discharge control plan or other action to control
slug discharges. The Superintendent may require any user to develop, submit for
admit approval, and implement such a plan or take such other action that may be
necessary to control slug discharges. Alternatively, the Superintendent may
develop such a plan for any user.
         (b)   An accidental discharge/slug discharge control plan shall
address, at a minimum, the following:
            1.   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine
batch discharges;
            2.   Description of stored chemicals;
            3.   Procedures for immediately notifying the Superintendent of any
accidental or slug discharge, as required by §
53.58(F); and
            4.   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or
slug discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
   (C)   Hauled wastewater.
      (1)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the Superintendent, and at such times as are established by the
Superintendent. Such waste shall not violate §
53.54 or any other requirements established by the city. The Superintendent may
require septic tank waste haulers to obtain individual wastewater discharge
permits.
      (2)   The Superintendent may require haulers of industrial waste to
obtain individual wastewater discharge permits. The Superintendent may require
generators of hauled industrial waste to obtain individual wastewater discharge
permits. The Superintendent also may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial
waste. The discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all other
requirements of this subchapter.
      (3)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the Superintendent. No load may be discharged without prior
consent of the Superintendent. The Superintendent may collect samples of each
hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The Superintendent
may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load
prior to discharge.
      (4)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for
every load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The
form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste
constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Ord. 775-11, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 53.56 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER PERMITS.
   (A)   Wastewater analysis.
      (1)   When requested by the Superintendent, a user must submit
information on the nature and characteristics of its wastewater within 30 days
of the request.
      (2)   The Superintendent is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose
and may periodically require users to update this information.
   (B)   Individual wastewater discharge permit.
      (1)   No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the
POTW without first obtaining an individual wastewater discharge permit from the
Superintendent, except that a significant industrial user that has filed a
timely application pursuant to division (C) below may continue to discharge for
the time period specified therein.
      (2)   The Superintendent may require other users to obtain individual
wastewater discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this
subchapter.
      (3)   Any violation of the terms and conditions of an individual
wastewater discharge permit shall be deemed a violation of this subchapter and
subjects the wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in §
53.62 and §
53.63. Obtaining an individual wastewater discharge permit does not relieve a
permittee of its obligation to comply with all federal and commonwealth
pretreatment standards or requirements or with any other requirements of
federal, commonwealth, and local law.
   (C)   Individual wastewater discharge permitting; existing connections. Any
user required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit who was
discharging wastewater into the POTW prior to the effective date of this
subchapter and who wishes to continue such discharges in the future, shall,
within 30 days after said date, apply to the Superintendent for an individual
wastewater discharge permit in accordance with division (E) below, and shall
not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to continue after 30 days to the
effective date of this subchapter except in accordance with and individual
wastewater discharge permit issued by the Superintendent.
   (D)   Individual wastewater discharge permitting; new connections. Any user
required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit who proposes to
begin or recommence discharging into the POTW must obtain such permit prior to
the beginning or recommencing of such discharge. An application for this
individual wastewater discharge permit, in accordance with division (E) below,
must be filed at least 45 days prior to the date upon which any discharge will
begin or recommence.
   (E)   Individual wastewater discharge permit application contents. All users
required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit must submit a
permit application. Users that are eligible may request a general permit under
division (F) below.
   (F)   Specific permit contents. The Superintendent may require users to
submit all or some of the following information as part of permit application:
      (1)   Identifying information.
         (a)   The name and address of the facility, including the name of the
operator and owner; and
         (b)   Contact information, description of activities, facilities, and
plant production processes on the premises.
      (2)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by of for the facility;
      (3)   Description of operation.
         (a)   A brief description of the nature, average rate of production
(including each product produced by type, amount, processed, and rate of
production), and standard industrial classifications of the operation(s)
carried out by such user. This description should include a schematic process
diagram, which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from the regulated
processes.
         (b)   Types of wastes generated and a list of all raw materials and
chemicals used or stored at the facility which are, or could accidentally or
intentionally be, discharged to the POTW;
         (c)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed
or actual hours of operation;
         (d)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day); and
         (e)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and
details to show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location,
and elevation, and all points of discharge.
      (4)   Duration. Time and duration of discharges;
      (5)   Location. The location for monitoring all wastes covered by the
permit;
      (6)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula(40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e));
      (7)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process and any new categorically regulated processes for existing
sources;
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the
Superintendent, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated
process;
         (c)   Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average
concentrations or mass, where required, shall be reported;
         (d)   The sample shall be representative of daily operations and shall
be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in §
53.58(J). Where the standard requires compliance with a BMP or pollution
prevention alternative, the user shall submit documentation as required by
Superintendent or the applicable standards to determine compliance with the
standard; and
         (e)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in §
53.58(K).
      (8)   Additional information. Any other information as may be deemed
necessary by the Superintendent to evaluate the permit application; and
      (9)   Revisions. Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be
processed and will be returned to the user for revision.
   (G)   Application signatories and certifications.
      (1)   All wastewater discharge permit applications, user reports and
certification statements must be signed by an authorized representative of the
user and contain the certification statement in §
53.58(N)(1).
      (2)   If the designation of an authorized representative is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new written authorization satisfying the
requirements of this section must be submitted to the Superintendent prior to
or together with any reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
   (H)   Individual wastewater discharge permit decisions.
      (1)   The Superintendent will evaluate the data furnished by the user and
may require additional information within 20 days of receipt of a complete
permit application. The Superintendent will determine whether to issue an
individual wastewater discharge permit.
      (2)   The Superintendent may deny any application for and individual
wastewater discharge permit.
(Ord. 775-11, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 53.57 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Individual wastewater discharge permit duration.
      (1)   An individual wastewater discharge permit shall be issued for a
specified time period, not to exceed five years from the effective date of the
permit.
      (2)   An individual wastewater discharge permit may be issued for a
period less than five years at the discretion of the Superintendent. Each
individual wastewater discharge permit will indicate a specific date upon which
it will expire.
   (B)   Individual wastewater discharge permit contents. An individual
wastewater discharge permit shall include such conditions as are deemed
reasonably necessary by the Superintendent to prevent pass through or
interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving the treatment
plant’s effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge
management and disposal, and protect against damage to the POTW.
      (1)   Individual wastewater discharge permit must contain:
         (a)   A statement that indicated the wastewater discharge permit
issuance date, expiration date, and effective date;
         (b)   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is
nontransferable without prior notification to the city in accordance with
division (D) below, and provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator
with a copy of the existing wastewater discharge permit;
         (c)   Effluent limits, including best management practices, based on
applicable pretreatment standards; and
         (d)   Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and record-
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants (or best management practice) to be monitored, sampling location,
sampling frequency, and sample type based on federal, commonwealth, and local
law;
         (e)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable
compliance schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance
beyond that required by applicable federal, commonwealth, or local law; and
         (f)   Requirements to control slug discharge, if determined by the
Superintendent to be necessary.
      (2)   Individual wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not
be limited to, the following conditions:
         (a)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge, and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
         (b)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control, or construction of appropriate containment devices designed
to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works;
         (c)   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill
control plans or other special conditions including management practices
necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated, or non-routine
discharges;
         (d)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount pollutants discharged to the POTW;
         (e)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
         (f)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment, including flow measurement devices;
         (g)   A statement that compliance with the individual wastewater
discharge permit does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for
compliance with all applicable federal and commonwealth pretreatment standards,
including those which become effective during the term of the individual
wastewater discharge permit; and
         (h)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Superintendent to
ensure compliance with this subchapter, and commonwealth and federal laws,
rules, and regulation.
   (C)   Permit modification. The Superintendent may modify an individual
wastewater discharge permit for good cause, including, but not limited to, the
following reasons:
      (1)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, commonwealth, or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
      (2)   To address significant alterations or additions to the user’s
operation, processes, or wastewater volume or character since the time of the
individual wastewater discharge permit issuance;
      (3)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
      (4)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat
to the city’s POTW, city personnel, or the receiving waters;
      (5)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the individual wastewater
discharge permit;
      (6)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
      (7)   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.13;
      (8)   To correct typographical or other errors in the individual
wastewater discharge permit; or
      (9)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a
new owner or operator where requested in accordance with division (D) below.
   (D)   Individual wastewater discharge permit transfer.
      (1)   Individual wastewater discharge permits may be transferred to a new
owner or operator only if the permittee gives at least 45 days’ advance notice
to the Superintendent and the Superintendent approves the individual wastewater
discharge permit transfer. The notice to the Superintendent must include a
written discharge permit transfer.
      (2)   The notice to the Superintendent must include a written
certification by the new owner or operator which:
         (a)   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate
intent to change the facility’s operations and processes;
         (b)   Identifiers the specific date on which the transfer is to occur;
and
         (c)   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
individual wastewater discharge permit.
      (3)   Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the
individual wastewater discharge permit void as of the date of facility
transfer.
   (E)   Individual wastewater discharge permit revocation.
      (1)   The Superintendent may revoke an individual wastewater discharge
permit for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
         (a)   Failure to notify the Superintendent of significant changes to
the wastewater prior to the changed discharge:
         (b)   Failure to provide prior notification to the Superintendent of
changed conditions pursuant to §
53.58(E);
         (c)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant
facts in the wastewater discharge permit application;
         (d)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports and certification statements;
         (e)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
         (f)   Refusing to allow the Superintendent timely access to the
facility premises and records;
         (g)   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
         (h)   Failure to pay fines;
         (i)   Failure to pay sewer charges;
         (j)   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
         (k)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater
discharge permit application;
         (l)   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership of a permitted facility; or
         (m)   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any
terms of the wastewater discharge permit to that user.
      (2)   Individual wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon
cessation of operations of transfer of business ownership. All individual
wastewater discharge permits insureds to a user are void upon the issuance of a
new individual wastewater discharge permit to that user.
   (F)   Individual wastewater discharge permit re-issuance. A user with an
expiring individual wastewater discharge permit shall apply for individual
wastewater discharge permit reassurance by submitting a complete permit
application, in accordance with §
53.56(E), a minimum of 60 days prior to the expiration of the user’s existing
individual wastewater discharge permit.
   (G)   Regulation of waste received from other jurisdictions.
      (1)   If another municipality or user located within another municipality
contributes wastewater to the POTW, the Superintendent shall enter into an
inter-municipal agreement with the contributing municipality.
      (2)   Prior to entering into and agreement required by division (G)(1)
above, the Superintendent shall request the following information from the
contributing municipality:
         (a)   A description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharged
to the POTW by the contributing municipality;
         (b)   An inventory of all users located within the contributing
municipality that are discharging to the POTW; and
         (c)   Such other information as the Superintendent may deem necessary.
      (3)   An inter-municipal agreement, as required by division (G)(1) above,
shall contain the following conditions:
         (a)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to adopt a sewer
use ordinance which is at least as stringent as this subchapter and local
limits, including required baseline monitoring reports (BMRs) which are at
least as stringent as those set out in section §
53.54(D). The requirement shall specify that such ordinance and limits must be
revised as necessary to reflect changes made to the city’s ordinance or local
limits;
         (b)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to submit a
revised user inventory on at least an annual basis;
         (c)   A provision specifying which pretreatment implementation
activities, including individual wastewater discharge permit issuance,
inspection and sampling, and enforcement, will be conducted by the contributing
municipality; which of these activities will be conducted by the Superintendent
and which of these activities will be conducted jointly by the contributing
municipality and the Superintendent;
         (d)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to provide the
Superintendent with access to all information that the contributing
municipality obtains as part of its pretreatment activities;
         (e)   Limits on the nature, quality, and volume of the contributing
municipality’s wastewater at the point where it discharges to the POTW;
         (f)   Requirements for monitoring the contributing municipality’s
discharge;
         (g)   A provision ensuring the Superintendent access to the facilities
of users located within the contributing municipality’s jurisdictional
boundaries for the purpose of inspection, sampling, and any other duties deemed
necessary by the Superintendent; and
         (h)   A provision specifying remedies available for breach of the
terms of the inter-municipal agreement.
(Ord. 775-11, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 53.58 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Baseline Monitoring Reports.
      (1)   (a)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a
categorical pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a
category determination under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later,
existing categorical industrial users currently discharging to or scheduled to
discharge to the POTW shall submit to the Superintendent a report which
contains the information listed in division (A)(2) below.
         (b)   At least 90 days prior to commencement of their discharge, new
sources and sources that become categorical industrial users subsequent to the
promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, shall submit to the
Superintendent a report which contains the information listed in division (A)
(2) below. A new source shall report the method of pretreatment it intends to
use to meet applicable categorical standards. A new source also shall give
estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
      (2)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
         (a)   Generally. All information required in §
53.56(F)(1), (F)(2), (F)(3)(a), (F)(6) (Note: See 40 C.F.R. § 403.12 (b)(1)
through (b)(7)).
         (b)   Measurement of pollutants.
            1.   The user shall provide the information required in §
53.56(F)(7)(a) through (F)(7)(d).
            2.   The user shall take a minimum of one representative sample to
compile that data necessary to comply with the requirements of this division
(A)(2)(b)2.
            3.   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from
pretreatment facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the
regulated process if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed
with the regulated wastewater prior to pretreatment, the user should measure
the flows and concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined wastestream
formula in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e) to evaluate compliance with the pretreatment
standards. Where an alternate concentration or mass limit has been calculated
in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e), this adjusted limit along with
supporting data shall be submitted to the control authority.
            4.   Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with
division (J) below.
            5.   The Superintendent may allow the submission of a baseline
report which utilizes only historical data so long as the data provides
information sufficient to determine the need for industrial pretreatment
measures.
            6.   The baseline report shall indicate the time, date, and place
of sampling and methods of analysis, and shall certify that such sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
discharges to the POTW.
      (c)   A statement, reviewed by the user’s authorized representative, as
defined in §
53.53 and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
      (d)    If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be required to meet the
pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will provide
such additional pretreatment and/or O&M must be provided. The completion date
in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for
the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to this
section must meet the requirements set out in division (B) below.
      (e)   All baseline monitoring reports must be certified in accordance
with division (N)(1) below and signed by an authorized representative as
defined in §
53.53.
   (B)   Compliance schedule progress reports. The following conditions shall
apply to the compliance schedule required by division (A)(2)(d) above.
      (1)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation).
      (2)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months.
      (3)   The user shall submit a progress report to the Superintendent no
later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule.
      (4)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such
progress reports to the Superintendent.
   (C)   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline.
      (1)   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with
applicable categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source
following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any
user subject to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to
the Superintendent a report containing the information described in §§
53.56(F)(6) and (F)(7), and division (A)(2)(b) above.
      (2)   For users subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits
established in accordance with the procedures in §
53.54(B). Note: See 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c), this report shall contain a
reasonable measure of the user’s long-term production rate. For all other users
subject to categorical pretreatment standards expressed in terms of allowable
pollutant discharge per unit of production (or other measure of operation),
this report shall include the user’s actual production during the appropriate
sampling period. All compliance reports must be signed and certified in
accordance with division (N)(1) below. All sampling will be done in conformance
with division (K) below.
   (D)   Periodic compliance reports.
      (1)   Except as specified in division (D)(3) below, all significant
industrial users must, at a frequency determined by the Superintendent submit
no less than twice per year (June and December) reports indicating the nature,
concentration of pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment
standards, and the measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows for
the reporting period. In cases where the pretreatment standard requires
compliance with a best management practice (BMP) or pollution prevention
alternative, the user must submit documentation required by the Superintendent
or the pretreatment standard necessary to determine the compliance status of
the user.
      (2)   (a)   The city may reduce the requirement for periodic compliance
reports (see division (D)(1) above (40 C.F.R. § 403.12(e)(1))) to a requirement
to report no less frequently than once a year, unless required more frequently
in the pretreatment standard or by the (EPA/commonwealth) where the industrial
user’s total categorical wastewater flow does not exceed any of the following:
            1.   0.01% of 1,720,000 gallons per day, as measured by a
continuous effluent flow monitoring device unless the industrial user
discharges in batches;
            2.   0.01% of 3,156 pounds of BOD per day; and
            3.   0.01% per day for the following pollutant allowable headworks
loading: arsenic - 0.492 lbs/day; cadmium - 0.005 lbs/day; chromium - 6.74 lbs/
day; copper - 0.41 lbs/day; cyanide - 0.083 lbs/day; lead - 0.058 lbs/day;
mercury - 0.025 lbs/day; nickel - 0.553 lbs/day; selenium - 0.049 lbs/day;
silver - 0.117 lbs/day; zinc -1.158 lbs/day; iron - 22.37 lbs/day; BOD - 3156
lbs/day. The foregoing amounts must be multiplied by .0001 (0.01%).
         (b)   Reduced reporting is not available to industrial users that have
in the last two years been in significant noncompliance, as defined in §
53.61. In addition, reduced reporting is not available to an industrial user
with daily flow rates, production levels, or pollutant levels that vary so
significantly that, in the opinion of the Superintendent, decreasing the
reporting requirement for this industrial user would result in data that are
not representative of conditions occurring during the reporting period.
      (3)   All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in
accordance with division (N)(1) below.
      (4)   (a)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s
discharge.
         (b)   Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be
properly operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all
times.
         (c)   The failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good
working order shall not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results
are unrepresentative of its discharge.
      (5)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any regulated pollutant at the appropriate sampling location more
frequently than required by the Superintendent, using the procedures prescribed
in division (K) below, the results of this monitoring shall be included in this
report. (Note: See 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(g)(6).)
   (E)   Reports of changed conditions. Each user must notify the
Superintendent of any significant changes to the user’s operations or system
which might alter the nature, quality, or volume of its wastewater at least 45
days before the change.
      (1)   The Superintendent may require the user to submit such information
as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
53.56(E).
      (2)   The Superintendent may issue an individual wastewater discharge
permit under §
53.57(F) or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit in response to
changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
   (F)   Reports of potential problems.
      (1)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge, a slug discharge or slug load that might cause
potential problems for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and
notify the Superintendent of the incident. This notification shall include the
location of the discharge, type of waste, concentration, and volume, if known,
and corrective actions taken by the user.
      (2)   Within five day following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the Superintendent, submit a detailed written report describing the
cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which might be incurred as result of
damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties,
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this subchapter.
      (3)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board
or other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (F)(1) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees, who could cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
      (4)   Significant industrial users are required to notify the
Superintendent immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the
potential for a slug discharge.
   (G)   Reports from unpermitted users. All users not required to obtain an
individual wastewater discharge permit shall provide appropriate reports to the
Superintendent as the Superintendent may require.
   (H)   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting. If sampling
performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify the
Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation. The user
shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the
repeat analysis to the Superintendent within 30 days after becoming aware of
the violation. Resampling by the industrial user is not required if the city
performs sampling at the user’s facility at least once a month, or if the city
performs sampling at the user between the time when the initial sampling was
conducted and the time when the user or the city receives the results of this
sampling, or if the city has performed the sampling and analysis in lieu of the
industrial user.
   (I)   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste. There shall be no
discharge of hazardous waste under 40 C.F.R. pt. 261 into the sanitary sewer
and wastewater treatment plant system (POTW) of the city.
   (J)   Analytical requirements. All pollutant analyses, including sampling
techniques, to be submitted as part of a wastewater discharge permit
application or report shall be performed in accordance with the techniques
prescribed in 40 C.F.R. pt. 136 and amendments thereto, unless otherwise
specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard. If 40 C.F.R. pt.
136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the pollutant in
question, or where the EPA determines that 40 C.F.R. pt. 136 sampling and
analytical techniques are inappropriate for the pollutant in question, sampling
and analyses shall be performed by using validated analytical methods or any
other applicable sampling and analytical procedures, including procedures
suggested by the Superintendent or other parties approved by EPA.
   (K)   Sample collection. Samples collected to satisfy reporting requirements
must be based on data obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis
performed during the period covered by the report based on data that is
representative of conditions occurring during the reporting period.
      (1)   Except as indicated in divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) below, the user
must collect wastewater samples using 24-hour flow-proportional composite
sampling techniques, unless time-proportional composite sampling or grab
sampling is authorized by the Superintendent. Where time-proportional composite
sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the city, the samples must be
representative of the discharge. Using protocols (including appropriate
preservation) specified in 40 C.F.R. pt. 136 and appropriate EPA guidance,
multiple grab samples collected during a 24-hour period may be composited prior
to the analysis as follows: for cyanide, total phenols, and sulfides the
samples may be composited in the laboratory or in the field; for volatile
organics and oil and grease, the samples may be composited in the laboratory.
Composite samples for other parameters unaffected by the compositing procedures
as documented in approved EPA methodologies may be authorized by the city, as
appropriate. In addition, grab samples may be required to show compliance with
instantaneous limits.
      (2)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, total phenol,
sulfides, and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
      (3)   For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and 90-day
compliance reports required in divisions (A) and (C) above (40 C.F.R. § 403.12
(b) and 403.12(d)), a minimum of four grab samples must be used for pH,
cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and volatile organic compounds
for facilities for which historical sampling data do not exist; for facilities
for which historical sampling data are available, the Superintendent may
authorize a lower minimum. For the reports required by division (D) above (40
C.F.R. § 403.12(e) and 403.12(h)), the industrial user is required to collect
the number of grab samples necessary to assess and assure compliance by with
applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
   (L)   Date of receipt of reports. Written reports will be deemed to have
been submitted on the date postmarked. For reports, which are not mailed,
postage prepaid, into a mail facility serviced by the U.S. Postal Service, the
date of receipt of the report shall govern.
   (M)   Recordkeeping.
      (1)   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this subchapter
shall retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all records of
information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this
subchapter, any additional records of information obtained pursuant to
monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements,
and documentation associated with best management practices established in this
chapter.
      (2)   Records shall include the date, exact place, method, and time of
sampling, and the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates the
analyses were performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques
of methods used; and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain
available for a period of at least three years. This period shall be
automatically extended for the duration of any litigation concerning the user
or the city or where the user has been specifically notified of a longer
retention period by the Superintendent.
   (N)   Certification statements.
      (1)   The following certification statement is required to be signed and
submitted by users submitting permit applications in accordance with §
53.56(G); users submitting baseline monitoring reports under division (A)(2)(e)
above (Note: See 40 C.F.R. § 403.12 (I)); users submitting reports on
compliance with the categorical pretreatment standard deadlines under division
(C) above (Note: See 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(d)); users submitting periodic
compliance reports required by divisions (D)(1) through (D)(4) above (Note: See
40 C.F.R. § 403.12(e) and (h)), and users submitting an initial request to
forego sampling of a pollutant on the basis of division (D)(2) above. (Note:
See 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(e)(2)(iii).)
      (2)   The following certification statement must be signed by an
authorized representative as defined in §
53.53.
 
I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge, true, accurate, and
complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false
information, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment for knowing
violations
 
(Ord. 775-11, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 53.59 COMPLIANCE MONITORING.
   (A)   Right of entry; inspection and sampling. The Superintendent shall have
the right to enter the premises of any user to determine whether the user is
complying with all requirements of this subchapter and any individual
wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder. Users shall allow the
Superintendent ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of
inspection, sampling, records examination, and copying, and the performance of
any additional duties.
      (1)   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Superintendent shall be permitted to enter
without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
      (2)   The Superintendent shall have the right to set up the user’s
property or require installation of such devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling and/or metering of the user’s operations.
      (3)   The Superintendent may require the user to install monitoring
equipment as necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user
at its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality
shall be calibrated semi-annually to ensure their accuracy.
      (4)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
user at the written or verbal request of the Superintendent and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be born by the user.
      (5)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Superintendent access to the
user’s premises shall be a violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   Search warrants. If the Superintendent has been refused access to a
building, structure, of property, or any part thereof, and is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be violation of this
subchapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a
routine inspection and sampling program of the city designed to verify
compliance with this subchapter or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to
protect the overall public health, safety, and welfare of the community, the
Superintendent may seek issuance of a search warrant from the County District
Court.
(Ord. 775-11, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 53.60 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys,
wastewater discharge permit applications, individual wastewater discharge
permits, and monitoring programs, and from the Superintendent’s inspection and
sampling activities, shall be available to the public without restriction,
unless the user specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the Superintendent, that the release of such information would
divulge information, processes, or methods of production entitled to protection
as trade secrets under applicable commonwealth law.
   (B)   (1)   Any such request must be asserted at the time of submission of
the information or data. When requested and demonstrated by the user furnishing
a report that such information should be held confidential, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public, but shall be made available immediately
upon request to governmental agencies for uses related to the NPDES program or
pretreatment program, and in enforcement proceedings involving the person
furnishing the report.
      (2)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics and other effluent
data, as defined at 40 C.F.R. § 2.302 shall not be recognized as confidential
information and shall be available to the public without restriction.
(Ord. 775-11, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 53.61 PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall publish annually, in a newspaper of general
circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdictions
served by the POTW, a list of the users which at any time during the previous
12 months, were in significant noncompliance with applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements.
   (B)   (1)   The term significant noncompliance shall be applicable to all
significant industrial users (or any other industrial user that violates
divisions (B)(3), (B)(4), or (B)(8) below and shall mean the following.
      CHRONIC VIOLATIONS OF WASTEWATER DISCHARGE LIMITS. Those in which 66% or
more of all the measurements taken for the same pollutant parameter taken
during a six-month period exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric pretreatment
standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits as defined in §
53.53.
      TECHNICAL REVIEW CRITERIA (TRC) VIOLATIONS. Those in which 33% or more of
wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant parameter during a six-month
period equals or exceeds the product of the numeric pretreatment standard or
requirement including instantaneous limits, as defined by §
53.53 multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and
grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH).
      (2)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirements as
defined by §
53.53 (daily maximum, long-term average, instantaneous limit, or narrative
standard) that the Superintendent determines has caused, alone or in
combination with other discharge, interference, or pass through, including
endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public;
      (3)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the Superintendent’s
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (4)   Failure to meet, within 90 days of the scheduled date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in an individual wastewater discharge permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
      (5)   Failure to provide within 45 days after the due date, any required
reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with
categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring reports,
and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
      (8)   Any other violation(s), which may include a violation of best
management practices, which the Superintendent determines will adversely affect
the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
(Ord. 775-11, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 53.62 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Notice of violation. When the Superintendent finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this subchapter, an
individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the Superintendent may serve upon that
user written notice of violation. Within 20 days of the receipt of such notice,
an explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and
prevention thereof to include specific required actions, shall be submitted by
the user to the Superintendent. Submission of such a plan in no way relieves
the user of liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of
the notice of violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of
the Superintendent to take any action, including emergency actions or any other
enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
   (B)   Consent orders. The Superintendent may enter into consent orders,
assurances of compliance, or other similar documents establishing an agreement
with any user responsible for noncompliance. Such documents shall include
specific action to be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance within a
time period specified by the document. Such documents shall have the same force
and effect as the administrative orders issued pursuant to divisions (D) and
(E) below and shall be judicially enforceable.
   (C)   Show cause hearing. The Superintendent may order a user which has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this subchapter, an
individual wastewater discharge permit, order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirements to appear before the Superintendent and
show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. Notice
shall be served on the user specifying the time and place for the meeting, the
proposed enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a request that
the user show just cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be
taken. The notice of the meeting shall be served personally or by the
registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) at least 14 days prior
to the hearing. Such notice may be served on any authorized representative of
the user as defined in §
53.53 and required by §
53.56(G)(1). A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite
for, taking any other action against the user.
   (D)   Compliance orders.
      (1)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate any provision of this subchapter, an individual wastewater
discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirements, the Superintendent may issue an order to the user responsible
for the discharge directing that the user come into compliance within a
specified time. If the user does not come into compliance within the time
provided, sewer service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment
facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances are installed and properly
operated.
      (2)   Compliance orders also may contain other requirements to address
the noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring and management
practices designed to minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the
sewer. A compliance order may not extend the deadline for compliance
established for a pretreatment standard or requirements, nor does a compliance
order relieve the user of liability for any violation, including any continuing
violation. Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   (E)   Cease and desist orders. When the Superintendent finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this subchapter, an
individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued here under, or any
other pretreatment standard or requirements, or that the user’s past violations
are likely to recur, the Superintendent may issue an order to the user
directing it to cease and desist all such violations and directing the user to:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
      (2)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge. Issuance of a cease and
desist order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the user.
   (F)   Emergency suspensions.
      (1)   The Superintendent may immediately suspend a user’s discharge,
after informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension is necessary to
stop an actual or threatened discharge, which reasonably appears to present or
cause an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons.
      (2)   The Superintendent may also immediately suspend a user’s discharge,
after notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the
operation of the POTW, or which presents or may present, an endangerment to the
environment.
         (a)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall
immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user’s
failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the
Superintendent may take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate
severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW,
its receiving stream, or endangerment to any individuals. The Superintendent
may allow the user to recommence its discharge when the user has demonstrated
to the satisfaction of the Superintendent that the period of endangerment has
passed, unless the termination proceedings in division (G) below are initiated
against the user.
         (b)   A user is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution, and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the Superintendent prior to the date of any
show cause or termination hearing under division (C) above or division (G)
below.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
   (G)   Termination of discharge.
      (1)   In addition to the provisions in §
53.57(E), any user who violates the following conditions is subject to
discharge termination:
         (a)   Violation of individual wastewater discharge permit conditions;
         (b)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
         (c)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or
wastewater volume, constituents, and characteristics prior to discharge;
         (d)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the
purpose of inspection, monitoring, or sampling; or
         (e)   Violation of the pretreatment standards in §
53.54.
      (2)   Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its
discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause under division (C) above
why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by the
Superintendent shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for, taking any other
action against the user.
(Ord. 775-11, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 53.63 JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Injunctive relief.
      (1)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated or continues
to violate any provision of this subchapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirements, the Superintendent may petition the County Circuit Court through
the city’s Attorney for the issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction, as
appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific performance of the
individual wastewater discharge permit, order, or other requirement imposed by
this subchapter on activities of the user.
      (2)   The Superintendent may also seek such other action as is
appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief, including a requirement for the
user to conduct environmental remediation. A petition for injunctive relief
shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action
against a user.
   (B)   Remedies nonexclusive.
      (1)   The remedies provided for in this subchapter are not exclusive. The
Superintendent may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant user.
      (2)   Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with the city’s enforcement response plan; however, the
Superintendent may take other action against any user when the circumstances
warrant. Further, the Superintendent is empowered to take more than one
enforcement action against any noncompliant user.
(Ord. 775-11, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 53.64 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upset.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, UPSET means an exceptional
incident in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable
control of the user. An UPSET does not include noncompliance to the extent
caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities,
inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or
improper operation.
      (2)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action
brought for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the
requirements of division (C) below are met.
      (3)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset
shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or
other relevant evidence that:
         (a)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
         (b)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
         (c)   The user has submitted the following information to the
Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset if this
information is provided orally, a written submission must be provided within
five days:
            1.   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
            2.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
            3.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
      (4)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
      (5)   Users shall have the opportunity for a judicial determination on
any claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
      (6)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
   (B)   Prohibited discharge standards. A user shall have an affirmative
defense to an enforcement action brought against it for noncompliance with the
general prohibitions in §
53.54(A)(1) or the specific prohibitions in §
53.54(A)(2)(a) if it can prove that it did not know, or have reason to know,
that its discharge, alone or in conjunction with discharges from other sources
would cause pass through or interference and that either:
      (1)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was
in compliance with each limit directly prior to and during the pass through or
interference; or
      (2)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change
substantially in nature or constituents from the user’s prior discharge when
the city was regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of
interference, was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal
requirements.
   (C)   Bypass.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         BYPASS. The intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of
a user’s treatment facility.
         SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property,
damage to the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
      (2)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is
for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not
subject to the provision of divisions (C)(3) and (C)(4) below.
      (3)   Bypass notifications are as follows.
         (a)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the Superintendent, at least ten days before the date of
the bypass, if possible.
         (b)   A user shall submit oral notice to the Superintendent of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall
also be provided within five days of the time the user becomes aware of the
bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and
its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if
the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass. The Superintendent may waive the written report on
a case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
      (4)   (a)   Bypass is prohibited, and the Superintendent may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
            1.   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury, or severe property damage;
            2.   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
            3.   The user submitted notices as required under division (C)(3)
above.
         (b)   The Superintendent may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the Superintendent determines that it will
meet the three conditions listed in division (C)(4)(a) above.
(Ord. 775-11, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 53.65 PRETREATMENT CHARGES AND FEES.
   The city may adopt reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up
and operating the city’s pretreatment program, which may include:
   (A)   Fees for wastewater discharge permit applications including the cost
of processing such applications;
   (B)   Fees for monitoring, inspection, and surveillance procedures including
the cost of collection and analyzing a user’s discharge, and reviewing
monitoring reports and certification statements submitted by users;
   (C)   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge procedures
and construction;
   (D)   Fees for filing appeals;
   (E)   Fees to recover administrative and legal costs associated with the
enforcement activity taken by the Superintendent to address IU noncompliance;
and
   (F)   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained pursuant to this subchapter. These fees relate solely to
the matters covered by this subchapter and are separate from all other fees,
fines, and penalties chargeable by the city.
(Ord. 775-11, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 53.66 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect immediately following its
passage, approval, and publication, as provided by law.
(Ord. 775-11, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions §
53.01(B) relating to sewers and sewer connections, or failing, or refusing to
comply with the same, whether or not he, she, or it shall be the owner or the
occupant of the premises involved, shall be fined not less than $5, nor more
than $25 for each offense. Each day such person, firm, or corporation fails or
refuses to connect the sanitary sewer drain from any property or building owned
or occupied by him, her, or it with the municipal sewer system, and each day
any such privy, well, pool, cistern, septic tank, or sink into which such
sewage is cast or permitted to be disposed of is kept or maintained in
violation of §
53.01(B), and each day any stormwater drain remains connected to any separate
sanitary, sewer shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Any facility that fails to comply with §
53.30, shall be granted a period of 15 days to correct any deficiency and
comply. After the 15-day period, any facility still not in compliance with the
provisions of §
53.30 shall incur a civil penalty of $500 per day with each day to constitute a
separate penalty.
   (D)   Pursuant to §
53.36, any person or persons, firm, or corporation owning property within the
city and who maintains or permits their premises a privy or toilet without
sewer connections other than those provided and required in §
53.36(A) and who fails within a reasonable time, not exceeding 60 days after
notice served on such person by the Chief of Police when ordered by the Council
so to do, to erect and maintain a privy or toilet as above required, shall be
fined a sum not less than $1, nor more than $5 for each day of such failure or
refusal.
   (E)   (1)   (a)   A user who has violated or continues to violate any
provision of §§
53.50 through
53.66, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued under §§
53.50 through
53.66, or any other pretreatment standard or requirements, shall be liable to
the city for a maximum civil penalty of $1,000 per violation, per day. In the
case of a monthly or other long-term average discharge limit, penalties shall
accrue for each day during the period of the violation.
         (b)   The Superintendent may recover reasonable attorney’s fees, court
costs, and other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including
sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred
by the city.
         (c)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the Court shall
take into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to,
the extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation any economic benefit gained through the user’s violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor
as justice requires.
         (d)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or
a prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
      (2)   (a)   A user who willfully or negligently violates any provision of
§§
53.50 through
53.66, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued under §§
53.50 through
53.66, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than
$250 per violation, per day, or imprisonment for not more than 89 days, or
both.
         (b)   A user who willfully or negligently introduces any substance
into the POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a penalty of at least
$250, or be subject to imprisonment for not more than 89 days or both. This
penalty shall be in addition to any other cause of action for personal injury
or property damage available under commonwealth law.
         (c)   A user who knowingly makes any false statements,
representations, or certifications in any application, record, report, plan, or
other documentation filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to §§
53.50 through
53.66, individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued under §§
53.50 through
53.66, or who falsifies, tempers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any
monitoring device or method required under §§
53.50 through
53.66, shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $250 per
violation, per day, or imprisonment for not more than 89 days or both.
         (d)   In the event of a second conviction, a user shall be punished by
a fine of not more than $250 per violation, per day, or imprisonment for not
more than 89 days, or both.
(Ord. 80, passed 3-2-1933; Ord. 469, passed 11-17-1969; Ord. 755-09, passed 6-
15-2009; Ord. 775-11, passed 7-11-2011)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Regulations
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Signal legends
   
70.16   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.17   Obedience to signals
   
70.18   Interference with signals
   
70.19   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.20   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.21   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Police vehicle lights, see §
32.48
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney’s office when on official
business, and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing the BOULEVARD.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and other portions of the roadway between two
intersections that may be legally designated as crossing places and marked by
stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles, whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION. That part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle, whether or not
one street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the Chief
of Police.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Chief of
Police and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and
footpaths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to proceed
in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. That portion of any street, improved, designated, or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses, and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn on any street, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any driver to violate any
of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in this
traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or any other signal.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
shall, at his or her discretion, have authority to impose traffic regulations
as he or she may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two weeks.
If these temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than two
weeks, the City Clerk shall be notified in writing of the extended order.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “Go,” “Caution,” or “Stop,” or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows:
   (A)   Green alone or “Go.” Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at that place prohibits
either turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other
vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time the
signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or
“Go” signal. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “Stop.” Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at
another point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or “Go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at another point as
may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed until
it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by the
signal.
   (F)   “Yield Right-of-Way.” Vehicular traffic facing the “Yield Right-of-
Way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a “Yield Right-of-Way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 miles per hour, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles
entering an expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights. When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane, all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above the lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at that place prohibits
the turn.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Accident involving death or serious injury; penalty for not reporting, see
KRS 189.990
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.16 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.17 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic- control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for the barrier
or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.19 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the
movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal. No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal or any commercial advertising.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any public department
or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily from marking or
erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been approved by the
city.
   (B)   Every prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a public
nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to be
removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
§ 70.21 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may at his or her discretion disregard
traffic-control lights or signals or established regulations in order to
facilitate the movement of traffic.
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U-turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
Accidents
   
71.15   Duty of operator
   
71.16   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.25   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.26   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.27   Smoke emission or other nuisance
Parades
   
71.40   Definitions
   
71.41   Permit required
   
71.42   Application for permit
   
71.43   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.44   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.45   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.46   Alternative permit
   
71.47   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.48   Contents of permit
   
71.49   Duties of permittee
   
71.50   Public conduct during parades
   
71.51   Revocation of permit
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he or she shall be deemed to have violated this
division rather than division (B) above.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U-TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless the movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8)) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Chief of Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension. On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. The operator
of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley from the
roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
Penalty, see §
71.99
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.15 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident, in which any person is injured or
property damaged, to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render any assistance as may be needed.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.16 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner, or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
Penalty, see §
71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.25 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure the highway.
   (C)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure the vehicles or equipment located in or near a
highway work zone.
   (D)   A person shall not operate any vehicle in a reckless or negligent
manner as to endanger persons or property in or near a highway, or in or near a
highway work zone.
   (E)   In addition to any other penalty, an operator who violates divisions
(C) or (D) of this section shall be subject to revocation of his or her
operator’s license under KRS 186.560.
(KRS 189.290) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.26 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
emergency vehicle; or the driver is given audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-
way, immediately drive to a position parallel to and as close as possible to,
the edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and stop and remain
stopped until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed
by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall remain stopped until the
emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer or
firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he or she
drive into, park the vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the block where
the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he or
she is directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train, or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway, or track for use at any fire alarm unless the fire department
official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   The provisions of division (F) shall apply to any driver approaching a
stationary:
      (1)   Emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when the emergency
vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal by displaying alternately
flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or blue lights; or
      (2)   Disabled vehicle, when the disabled vehicle is displaying some type
of warning signal, such as emergency flashers, flares, or retroreflective
signals.
   (F)   The driver of a vehicle that is approaching a vehicle described in
division (E) above shall, while proceeding with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes
with at least two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the approaching
vehicle; and
         (b)   It is possible to make the lane change with due regard to safety
and traffic conditions; or
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if the road has less than four lanes or if changing lanes would be
impossible or unsafe.
   (G)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.27 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke, or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) Penalty, see §
71.99
PARADES
§ 71.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any PARADE, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
§ 71.41 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.42 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by the
official.
   (A)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   Application. The application for a parade permit shall set forth the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by and on behalf of or for
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his or her behalf; and
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   Fee. There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a
parade permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.43 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of or ambulance service to areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.44 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he or she disapproves the
application, he or she shall mail to the applicant within the three days,
Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excepted, after the date on which the
application was filed, a notice of his or her action stating the reasons for
his or her denial of the permit.
§ 71.45 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
§ 71.46 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his or her acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall
conform to the requirements of and shall have the effect of a parade permit
under this subchapter.
§ 71.47 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief; and
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
§ 71.48 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement of
this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.49 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairperson or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his or
her person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.50 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when the vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
§ 71.51 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.26 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $60 nor
more than $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 30 days,
or both. (KRS 189.993(8))
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Parking and weight limits
   
72.02   Parking near the Public Square
§ 72.01 PARKING AND WEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be illegal for any owner or operator of a motor vehicle
having a gross vehicle weight rating in excess of 15,000 pounds or a trailer
having a gross vehicle weight rating in excess of 15,000 pounds to remain
parked in a residential area on the public streets of the city for a period in
excess of four hours.
   (B)   Any such motor vehicle or trailer shall not remain parked on the
public streets of the city in a commercial, governmental, or public service
area for a period in excess of 12 hours.
(Ord. 664-98, passed 1-11-1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02 PARKING NEAR THE PUBLIC SQUARE.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
keep or store or park any motor vehicle on the Public Square or streets of the
city in front of or on any side of any filling station or service station where
said Public Square or street abuts the sidewalk in front of or on the side of
any filling station or service station.
      (2)   No provision of this division (A) shall be construed to prohibit
customers from stopping at any filling station, or service station in the
ordinary manner of obtaining service thereat in the usual course of business of
said filling station, or service station.
      (3)   This division (A) shall become effective from and after its
passage, approval, and publication as required by law.
   (B)   (1)   All vehicles that are parked or placed on the streets of the
city or on the Public Square in the city shall be parked or placed in the space
set apart for the same and on the Public Square in spaces set apart and
designated on said Square by white chalk or painted lines, leaving the space
designated and set apart by a double line for passage way for pedestrians, open
and unobstructed.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (B), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         DOUBLE PARKING. Any car parked behind the car that is parked behind
the car that is parked in the lines and up to the curb.
         LEGAL PARKING OF CARS OR VEHICLES. Cars or vehicles shall park in the
lines set apart for them and up against the curb.
         VEHICLE. Include any and all conveyances used for hauling passengers
or freight and any and all vehicles by whatever power operated.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to park or place any car or vehicle within
seven and one-half feet of either side of a fire plug.
      (4)   Trucks hauling merchandise to the various business houses in the
city shall not be allowed to exceed one hour to unload said merchandise.
      (5)   Business persons who deliver merchandise to customers shall also be
allowed a reasonable time to load trucks for deliveries to said customers not
to exceed one hour.
      (6)   This division (B) shall be and becomes a law on and after its
passage and publication as the law directs.
(Ord. 123, passed 6-2-1938; Ord. 176, passed 6-7-1945) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed regulations
      
II.   One-way streets
      
III.   Stop signs and stop streets
      
IV.   Stopping generally
      
V.   Prohibited driving
SCHEDULE I. SPEED REGULATION.
   (A)   Twenty-five miles per hour.
      (1)   Section
71.01(B) is hereby amended to reduce the maximum speed limit on N. Welch Street
as set forth pursuant to this schedule. No operator of a motor vehicle shall
drive at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour on N. Welch Street, beginning
at W. Main Street and running to the end of said N. Welch Street.
      (2)   Appropriate signs shall be installed indicating the speed limits in
division (A) above as well as a dead-end street sign on N. Welch Street, north
of W. Cherry Street.
      (3)    The penalty for violation of this division (A) shall be a fine of
not less $10, nor more than $100.
   (B)   Twenty miles per hour. The maximum speed limit is hereby set and
established as 20 miles per hour on the following three routes:
      (1)   East Maple Street beginning at South Court Street, then east to
Maysville Road.
      (2)   East Locust Street beginning at South Court Street, then east to
Holland Road (KY Hwy. No. 100).
      (3)   Cottage Drive, beginning at its northwesterly terminus, then
southeast to Youth, Inc.
(Ord. 537, passed 8-9-1976; Ord. 840-21, passed 5-24-2021)
SCHEDULE II. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   (1)   It is hereby ordained that First Street shall hereafter be a
one-way street going north between Main and Cherry Street.
      (2)   It is ordered and directed that the provisions of division (A) be
fully enforced by the Police Department and any violation of the provisions as
set fourth above shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $1, nor more
than $15.
   (B)   The intersection of E. Main Street and First Street before entering E.
Main Street shall be a one-way street.
(Ord. 484, passed 9-7-1971)
SCHEDULE III. STOP SIGNS AND STOP STREETS.
   (A)   (1)   The streets pursuant to this division (A) shall be stop streets
designated by stop signs and it shall be the duty of the operator of any
vehicle that he or she shall bring the same to a complete stop before entering
or crossing the intersecting street are as follows.
Intersection Description
Intersection                            Description
At the intersection of E. Locust Street Before entering E. Locust Street
and S. First Street
At the intersection of E. Locust Street Before entering E. Locust Street
and S. Seventh Street
At the intersection of E. Locust Street Before entering E. Locust Street
and S. Sixth Street
At the intersection of E. Main Street   Before entering E. Main Street
and Depot Street
At the intersection of E. Main Street   Before entering E. Main Street
and Eight Street
At the intersection of E. Main Street   Before entering E. Main Street
and Fourth Street
At the intersection of E. Main Street   Before entering E. Main Street
and Ninth Street
At the intersection of E. Main Street   Before entering E. Main Street
and Second Street
At the intersection of E. Main Street   Before entering E. Main Street
and Seventh Street
At the intersection of E. Main Street   Before entering E. Main Street
and Sixth Street
At the intersection of E. Main Street   Before entering E. Main Street
and Third Street
At the intersection of E. Maple Street  Before entering S. Fifth Street
and S. Fifth Street
At the intersection of E. Maple Street  Before entering S. First Street
and S. First Street
At the intersection of E. Maple Street  Before entering S. Fourth Street
and S. Fourth Street
At the intersection of E. Maple Street  Before entering E. Maple Street
and S. Second Street
At the intersection of E. Maple Street  Before entering E. Maple Street
and S. Seventh Street
At the intersection of E. Maple Street  Before entering S. Third Street
and S. Third Street
At the intersection of E. Poplar Street Before entering E. Poplar Street
and N. Eight Street
At the intersection of N. Court Street  Before entering N. Court Street
and Cedar Street
At the intersection of N. Court Street  Before entering N. Court Street
and E. Cherry Street
At the intersection of N. Court Street  Before entering N. Court Street
and E. Poplar Street
At the intersection of N. Court Street  Before entering N. Court Street
and Oak Street
At the intersection of N. Court Street  Before entering N. Court Street
and Walnut Street
At the intersection of N. First Street  Before entering E. Cherry Street
and E. Cherry Street
At the intersection of N. Fourth Street Before entering Cedar Street
and Cedar Street
At the intersection of N. Fourth Street Before entering N. Fourth Street, also
and E. Cherry Street                    before entering E. Cherry Street, being
                                        a four-way stop
At the intersection of N. Forth Street  Before entering N. Fourth Street, also
and E. Poplar Street                    before entering E. Poplar Street, being
                                        a four-way stop
At the intersection of N. Fourth Street Before entering N. Fourth Street
and E. Walnut Street
At the intersection of N. Fourth Street Before entering N. Fourth Street
and Elm Street
At the intersection of N. Sixth Street  Before entering N. Sixth Street
and E. Cherry Street
At the intersection of N. Seventh       Before entering E. Poplar Street
Street and E. Poplar Street
At the intersection of N. Sixth Street  Before entering N. Sixth Street
and. E. Cherry Street
At the intersection of N. Sixth Street  Before entering N. Sixth Street, also
and. E. Poplar Street                   before entering E. Poplar Street, being
                                        a four-way stop
At the intersection of N. Sixth Street  Before entering N. Sixth Street before
and. E. Walnut                          entering N. Sixth Street
At the intersection of N. Third Street  Before entering N. Third Street, also
and E. Poplar Street                    before entering E. Poplar Street, being
                                        a four-way stop
At the intersection of N. Third Street  Before entering N. Third Street
and E. Walnut Street
At the intersection of N. Third Street  Before entering N. Third Street
and Elm Street
At the intersection of S. Court Street  Before entering S. Court Street
and Maple Street
At the intersection of S. Fifth Street  Before entering S. Fourth Street
and E. Locust Street
At the intersection of S. Fifth Street  Before entering S. Third Street
and E. Maple
At the intersection of S. Fourth Street Before entering S. Fifth Street
and E. Locust Street
At the intersection of S. Second Street Before entering E. Locust Street
and E. Locust Street
At the intersection of S. Third Street  Before entering S. Third Street
and E. Locust Street
At the intersection of S. Third Street  Before entering S. Third Street
and Railroad Crossing Road
At the intersection of Third Street and Before entering Cedar Street
Cedar Street
At the intersection of W. Cherry Street Before entering W. Cheery Street
and N. Cemetery Street
At the intersection of W. Cherry Street Before entering W. Cherry Street
and N. Welch Street
At the intersection of W. Cherry Street Before entering N. Welch Street
and N. Welch Street
At the intersection of W. Main Street   Before entering W. Main Street
and Bedelia Street
At the intersection of W. Main Street   Before entering W. Main Street
and Cemetery Street
At the intersection of W. Main Street   Before entering W. Main Street
and S. Dixon Street
At the intersection of W. Main Street   Before entering W. Main Street
and W. Locust Street
At the intersection of W. Main Street   Before entering W. Main Street
and W. Maple Street
At the intersection of W. Main Street   Before entering W. Main Street
and Welch Street
At the intersection of W. Maple Street  Before entering W. Maple Street
and Bedelia Street
At the intersection of W. Maple Street  Before entering W. Maple Street
and S. Cemetery
                                        Before entering W. Maple Street and
At the intersection of W. Maple Street  also before entering S. Dixon Street,
and S. Dixon Street                     being a four-way stop at this
                                        intersection
At the intersection of W. Maple Street  Before entering W. Maple Street
and S. Welch Street
 
      (2)   The city has erected and shall maintain stop signs and upon the
locations above mentioned for the guidance and observation of drivers and
operation of motor vehicles and for the regulation of traffic at said points.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any motor vehicle upon
approaching the stop sign at said points or either of them to fail to come to a
full stop before proceeding and it shall be the duty of each driver of a motor
vehicle in the city upon approaching stop signs at either of the places
designated to come to a full stop before proceeding.
      (4)   This division (A) shall be and become into full force and effect
upon its passage by the Council and approval by the Mayor and publication as
the law directs.
      (5)   Any operator of any vehicle, propelled by a motor- or horse-drawn
vehicle or otherwise, failing to stop at any said stop street designated
pursuant to this division (A), and as provided, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $1, nor more
than $15 and the costs of the action.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be a stop sign painted upon N. Court Street where
said street enters the Public Square and a like sign painted on W. Main Street
at the point where said Street enters said Public Square; on the south side of
the Courthouse; and on the Public Square at a place which will stop traffic
proceeding from west to east around said Square in such a way as not to
interfere with the free flow of traffic on U.S. 31 either northbound or
southbound; and likewise a stop sign shall be placed on the east side of the
Public Square to halt traffic proceeding north around the Square before
entering said U.S. Highway 31-E.
      (2)   The word stop shall be painted, as set out pursuant to this
division (B), on the customary yellow or warning color and the letters shall be
at least two feet in size. It shall be the duty of the operator of any vehicle,
regardless of how propelled, to bring said vehicle to a complete stop before
crossing said sign and not proceed further until the same can be done with
reasonable safety, yielding the preference or right-of-way to approaching
traffic.
      (3)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this
division (B) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be fined no less $1, nor more than $15 for each offense.
      (4)   This division (B) shall be in full force and effect upon its
passage, approval, and publication as the law direct.
   (C)   (1)   Regulation stop signs shall be installed and maintained at the
following street intersections and junctions:
         (a)   Shady Lane at both of its junctions with Woodland Drive;
         (b)   Ormand Street at both of its junctions with Woodland Drive;
         (c)   Dogwood Drive at both of its junctions with Woodland Drive;
         (d)   Circle Drive at its junction with Woodland Drive;
         (e)   Kerry Drive at its junction with Ormand Street;
         (f)   Carter Street at both of its junctions with southwest Circle;
and
         (g)   Southwest Circle at both of its junctions with Circle Drive.
      (2)   The operators of all motor vehicles shall come to a complete stop
before proceeding through the above intersections in accordance with the
general traffic laws of the commonwealth.
      (3)   Any person violating the provisions of this division (C) shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not less than $10, nor more than $100.
(Ord. 59, passed 9-4-1930; Ord. 238, passed 6-1-1950; Ord. 282, passed 2-7-
1957; Ord. 539, passed 11-8-1976)
SCHEDULE IV. STOPPING GENERALLY.
   (A)   Any and all vehicles, except horses, mules, or other animal-drawn
vehicles, shall be caused to be brought to a dead stop when approaching E. Main
or W. Main Street from any street which intersects said Main Street and it
shall be the duty of any and all drivers of said vehicles to a dead stop before
proceeding upon said Main Street as hereinbefore set out.
   (B)   Any person or persons, firm or firms, partnership or partnerships,
corporation or corporations, individual, or individuals who shall violate this
schedule, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
therefor, shall be fined not less than $1, nor more than $15 for each offense,
and each failure to stop at said Street as hereinbefore set out shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such.
   (C)   This schedule shall become law on and after its passage, approval, and
publication as the law directs.
(Ord. 31, passed 6-4-1925)
SCHEDULE V. PROHIBITED DRIVING.
   (A)   No motortruck, tractor, trailer, bus, or other motor vehicle shall be
operated upon Parkway Drive in the city (from U.S. Highway 31-E to Kentucky
Highway No. 101) if the combined weight of vehicle exceeds 10,000 pounds.
   (B)   This schedule shall not apply to school buses, emergency vehicles,
deliveries to residents, and vendors of essential services to residents.
   (C)   Any operator of a motor vehicle in violation of this schedule shall be
fined not less than $25, nor more than $100.
(Ord. 554, passed 6-12-1978)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking prohibitions generally
      
II.   Parking prohibited at all times
      
III.   Parking prohibited at limited times
      
IV.   Downtown parking
      
V.   Oversized vehicle and truck parking prohibited
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm, partnership,
corporation, or individual to park any vehicle or suffer or cause the same to
be parked on the asphalt on E. and W. Main Street from the city limits to the
Public Square except in legally marked parking space.
   (B)   For the purpose of this schedule, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      VEHICLE. Includes any and all conveyances used, for hauling passengers or
freight and any and all vehicles by whatever power operated.
   (C)   Any person, persons, firms, partnership, corporation, or individual
violating this schedule or any part of the same shall, upon conviction, be
fined not less than $1, nor more than $16 for each offense.
   (D)   This schedule shall be and become a law on and after its passage and
publication as the law directs.
(Ord. 16, passed 9-4-1924)
SCHEDULE II. PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES.
   (A)   (1)   There shall be no parking of any vehicles of any kind, motor-
driven or horse-drawn or of any other kind, on the north side of W. Maple
between S. Welch Street and S. Court Street; and on the south side of E. Maple
between S. Court Street and S. First Street in the city.
      (2)   This division (A) shall not be construed to prevent emergency
parking nor bona fide parking for the purpose of loading or unloading at any
business house abutting said prohibited area, but only so long as necessary.
      (3)   This division (A) shall be effective upon its passage, approval,
and publication as the law directs.
      (4)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating this division (A) shall
be fined not less than $1, nor more than $15 for each offense, and each day
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be no parking of any vehicles of any kind, motor-
driven or horse-drawn, or any other kind on the west side of S. First Street in
the city between E. Main and E. Maple Streets and the Chief of Police is hereby
ordered and directed immediately to paint the curb of said street with
customary yellow paint and otherwise see that this division (B) be enforced
strictly.
      (2)   This division (B) shall not be construed to prevent emergency
parking or bona fide parking for the purpose of loading or unloading at any
business house abutting said street, but only so long as is necessary.
      (3)   This division (B) shall be effective upon its passage, approval,
and publication as the law directs.
      (4)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating this division (B) shall
be fined not less than $1, nor more than $15, for each offense, and each day
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   (1)   No vehicle of any kind, character, or description, whether the
same be horse-, mule-, or other animal-drawn, or whether the same be self-
propelled by gasoline or any fuel or electric motor shall be parked on the east
side of S. Third Street beginning at the south side of Maple Street and between
there and the city limits of said city at its southern border.
      (2)   This division (C) shall be effective upon its passage, approval,
and publication as the law directs.
      (3)   Any person, corporation, firm, or individual violating this
division (C) shall, upon conviction, be fined in the sum of not less than $1,
nor more than $15 for each offense and each vehicle and each day each vehicle
be so parked shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   (1)   The south side of Cherry Street from N. Court Street (Kentucky
Highway No. 101) east to N. Third Street, with the exception of a loading space
at the rear entrance of Doyle Florist, is hereby designated a no parking zone.
The aforementioned area shall be marked with no parking signs and appropriate
yellow line markings.
      (2)   This division (D) shall be effective upon its passage, approval,
and publication as the law directs.
   (E)   The west side of Second Street between Main and Maple shall hereafter
be a no parking zone.
   (F)   The entire 914 feet length of the street shown by a plat recorded at
Minor Subdivision Plat Book 11, page 33, Allen County Clerk’s office (50-feet
wide) is hereby established as a no parking zone on both sides of the street.
(Ord. 210, passed 3-10-1948; Ord. 216, passed 9-13-1948; Ord. 223, passed 1-6-
1949; Ord. 246, passed 3-6-1952; Ord. 484, passed 9-7-1971; Ord. 504, passed 2-
11-1974; Ord. 840-21, passed 5-24-2021)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. PARKING PROHIBITED AT LIMITED TIMES.
   (A)   No motor-propelled or driven vehicle, or any trailer, other than
ordinary passenger cars, not exceeding seven-passenger capacity and pick-up
trucks, shall park on Main Street in the city for more than two hours without
moving said vehicle from the entire space wherein the same shall be parked. Any
such vehicle while parked as permitted pursuant to this schedule after sunset
and before sunrise, shall have burning continuously at the front and rear such
warning lights as will clearly outline said vehicle to the public for at least
100 feet.
   (B)   The provisions of this schedule shall not apply to any space now
controlled by parking meters or hereafter so controlled during the hours that
money is required to be deposited in said meters, and in that event the
ordinance applying to said parking meters shall control.
   (C)   This schedule shall be in full effect on and after its passage,
approval, and publication as the law directs.
   (D)   Any person or persons, firm, partnership, or corporation violating
this schedule shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $5, nor more than
$15 for each offense.
(Ord. 214, passed 6-3-1948)
SCHEDULE IV. DOWNTOWN PARKING.
   (A)   There are 114 appropriately established and designated parking spaces
on the City Public Square and one block from said Public Square on N. and S.
Court Streets and E. and W. Main Streets.
   (B)   The aforesaid 114 parking spaces shall be used for motor vehicle
parking only. No double parking shall be allowed.
   (C)   The maximum period of time allowed for the use of a parking space
shall be two hours from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., local time Monday through
Friday, excepting legal holidays.
   (D)   Violation of this schedule shall be punished by a fine of $20 per
violation. The amount of the fine shall be doubled if not paid within 30 days.
The registered owner of the motor vehicle in violation of this schedule shall
be responsible for the payment of the fine.
(Ord. 796-14, passed 8-11-2014)
SCHEDULE V. OVERSIZED VEHICLE AND TRUCK PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle which is over 17
feet in length from the front part or fixtures thereof to the rear part of
fixtures, that is from tip to tip or any truck, even 17 feet or shorter which
has on it any cargo or other thing that makes said truck of greater length than
17 feet as aforesaid, upon the Public Square or on either side of Main Street
extending from Public Square eastward to intersection of First Street, or
westward from the Public Square extending to intersection of Cemetery Street or
northward from Public Square one block to intersection of State Highway 71 or
Bowling Green Road, except for the purpose of loading or unloading such truck
and then such truck shall not be parked for any greater period of time than
reasonably necessary for the loading or unloading of said truck.
      (2)   This division (A) shall be in full force and effect on end after
its passage by the City Council.
      (3)   Any person, partnership, firm, or corporation violating this
division (A) shall be fined not less than $1, nor more than $15 for each
offense and each time such person, partnership, firm, or corporation shall
suffer or permit such truck to be parked as prohibited pursuant to this
division (A), shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   (1)   No trucks or trailer-trucks or any other truck except pick-up
trucks shall park on S. Court Street from the Square, south and following the
new 31E to the city limits.
      (2)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating this division (B) shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not less that $1, nor more than $15, for
each offense and each day that such offender shall violate the same shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 183, passed 4-4-1946; Ord. 227, passed 7-20-1949)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND THE LIKE
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   CEMETERIES
      
94.   FIREWORKS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.04   Torture of dogs or cats
   
90.05   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.06   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.07   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
   
90.08   Keeping animals; raising of livestock
   
90.09   Fowl to be kept in secure enclosures
   
90.10   Number limitation for cats and dogs
   
90.11   Restrictions upon the ownership of vicious animals
Dogs
   
90.15   Definitions
   
90.16   License required
   
90.17   Registration and issuance of license
   
90.18   License tag to be attached to dog
   
90.19   Dogs running at large
   
90.20   Noise disturbance
   
90.21   Impoundment
   
90.22   Reclaiming impounded dog
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To forsake entirely, or to neglect or refuse to provide or perform
the legal obligations for care and support of an animal by its owner or his or
her agent.
(KRS 257.010)
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care, or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
§ 90.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or permit it to go on any private yard, lot, or enclosure without the
consent of the owner of the yard, lot, or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by the animal upon the premises
of another.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when,
except as authorized by law, he or she intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in KRS 525.125 in
causing it to fight for pleasure or profit (including but not limited to being
a spectator or vendor at an event where a four-legged animal is caused to fight
for pleasure or profit), mutilation, beating, torturing any animal other than a
dog or cat, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food, drink, space, or
health care, or by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his or her custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This division shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including but not
limited to horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows, or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with the United States Department of
Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject to other federal laws
governing animal research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
   (C)   Activities of animals engaged in hunting, field trials, dog training
other than training a dog to fight for pleasure or profit, and other activities
authorized either by a hunting license or by the Department of Fish and
Wildlife shall not constitute a violation of this section.
   (D)   Cruelty to animals in the second degree is a Class A misdemeanor
   (E)   (1)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to an offense under
division (A) of this section arising from the person's treatment of an equine,
the court may impose one or both of the following penalties against the person,
in addition to fines and imprisonment:
         (a)   An order that the person pay restitution for damage to the
property of others and for costs incurred by others, including reasonable
costs, as determined by agreement or by the court after a hearing, incurred in
feeding, sheltering, veterinary treatment, and incidental care of any equine
that was the subject of the offense resulting in conviction; or
         (b)   An order terminating or imposing conditions on the person's
right to possession, title, custody, or care of any equine that was the subject
of the offense resulting in conviction.
      (2)   If a person's ownership interest in an equine is terminated by a
judicial order under division (F)(1)(b) of this section, the court may order
the sale, conveyance, or other disposition of the equine that was the subject
of the offense resulting in conviction.
(KRS 525.130) Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross-reference:
   Torture of dogs or cats, see §
90.04
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a Class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 90.04 TORTURE OF DOGS OR CATS.
   (A)   As used in this section, unless the context otherwise requires:
      SERIOUS PHYSICAL INJURY OR INFIRMITY. Physical injury or physical
infirmity that creates a substantial risk of death, protracted loss, or
impairment of the function of the limb or bodily organ caused by willful or
wanton disregard while restrained. As used in this section:
         (a)   PHYSICAL INFIRMITY. Includes intentional starvation,
dehydration, hypothermia, hyperthermia, muscle atrophy, restriction of blood
flow to a limb or organ, mange or other skin disease or parasitic infection for
which medical care has been denied, denial of life-saving medical care or
professional euthanasia while intentionally restraining with the intent to
cause or the wanton disregard for extreme physical pain, serious injury, or
death; and
         (b)   PHYSICAL INJURY. Includes substantial physical pain, serious
injury, or death intentionally caused by fractures, cuts, burns, punctures,
bruises due to crushing, burning, drowning, beating, poisoning, suffocating,
hanging, impaling or skinning alive, physical disfigurement, loss of function
of a limb or body organ or other wounds or illnesses produced by violence or a
thermal or chemical agent while intentionally restrained with the intent to
cause or the wanton disregard for extreme physical pain, serious injury, or
death.
      TORTURE. The intentional infliction of or subjection to extreme physical
pain or serious injury or death to a dog or cat, motivated by intent or wanton
disregard that causes, increases, or prolongs the pain or suffering of the dog
or cat, including serious physical injury or infirmity. TORTURE shall include
situations where the extreme physical pain, serious physical injury or
infirmity, or death results from restraint of the dog or cat, which may include
being:
         (a)   Locked in a cage or kennel;
         (b)   Sealed in a plastic bag or box;
         (c)   Chained or tied down to restrict motion;
         (d)   Pitched in a dumpster;
         (e)   Abandoned in a building for three days or more with no intention
of returning or having made provisions for the animal’s care;
         (f)   Physically restrained with tie wraps, rope, chains, or tape;
         (g)   Intentionally injured to cause immobility so that the animal
cannot save itself from starvation, dehydration, physical impairment, serious
physical injury or infirmity, or death; or
         (h)   Manually restrained.
   (B)   A person is guilty of torture of a dog or cat when he or she without
legal justification intentionally tortures a domestic dog or cat.
   (C)   Under recommendation of a veterinarian, a tortured dog or cat may be
humanely euthanized after it is seized if it is still alive but suffering from
the intentional torture that will lead to its death.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing or injuring of a
dog or cat without intent to cause, or without wanton disregard of, increasing
or prolonging the pain, suffering, or death of the dog or cat:
      (1)   In accordance with a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   For humane purposes;
      (3)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes or breed- specific alterations such as cropping of ears, docking of
tails, or declawing of a cat, all done by a veterinarian;
      (4)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including but not
limited to training for organized dog or cat shows, or other animal shows in
which a dog or a cat, or both, participate;
      (5)   For bona fide animal research activities, using dogs or cats, of
institutions of higher education; or a business entity registered with the
United States Department of Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject
to other federal laws governing animal research;
      (6)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased dog or cat;
      (7)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
dog or cat;
      (8)   For animal or pest control; or
      (9)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
   (E)   Activities of animals engaged in hunting, field trials, dog training
other than training a dog to fight for pleasure or profit, and other activities
authorized either by a hunting license or by the Department of Fish and
Wildlife Resources shall not constitute a violation of this section.
   (F)   The acts specified in this section shall not constitute cruelty to
animals under KRS 525.125 or 525.130.
(KRS 525.135) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Torture of dogs and cats resulting in physical injury, second and subsequent
offenses, a Class D felony, see KRS 525.135
   Torture of dogs and cats resulting in serious physical injury or death, a
Class D felony, see KRS 525.135
§ 90.05 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, animal control officer, or any person authorized by
the Board may destroy or kill, or cause to be destroyed or killed, any animal
found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or appearing to be
injured, diseased, or suffering past recovery for any useful purpose.
(KRS 257.100(1))
   (B)   Before destroying the animal the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian or of two reputable citizens called by him or her
to view the animal in his or her presence, or shall obtain consent to the
destruction from the owner of the animal.
(KRS 257.100(2))
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding, or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or
his or her agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or
his or her agent at his or her last known address, shall be deemed to be
abandoned and may be turned over to the nearest humane society or animal
shelter or disposed of as the custodian may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed veterinarian shall relieve the licensed veterinarian and
any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
(KRS 257.100(3))
   (D)   Abandonment shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and
claims by the owner to the animal.
(KRS 257.100(4))
§ 90.08 KEEPING ANIMALS; RAISING OF LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   No person, firm, partnership, or corporation shall raise hogs or any
other kind of livestock within the city and have the feeding place or pen for
keeping the same closer than 200 feet to any building used or occupied by any
person or persons as living quarters.
   (B)   Any person keeping a dog or dogs at all times in the city shall keep
the same on his or her own premises, or if not, then he or she shall have said
dog or dogs under leash and, further, that if necessary, to prevent such dog or
dogs from barking at night, that the same shall be provided with a “barker” or
other device to prevent the same and; provided further, that every dog owned by
anyone shall be vaccinated against rabies and shall have a certificate from a
veterinarian showing that the vaccination has been done, and any dog kennel
shall be maintained in a sanitary condition and not closer that 200 feet from
any building occupied as living quarters by any person or persons.
   (C)   There shall be hereafter no dogs at any public meeting in the city
with the exception of a dog on show, a dog performing in a parade or other
performance, trained guide dogs, or K-9 police officers.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the keeping of a
milch cow for family purposes.
(Ord. 295, passed 5-8-1958; Ord. 713-04, passed 7-12-2004)
§ 90.09 FOWL TO BE KEPT IN SECURE ENCLOSURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of the city
to harbor any chickens unless done so in the following manner.
   (A)   The harboring of any chicken flocks must be maintained so as to not
constitute a public nuisance or disturb neighboring residents due to noise,
odor, or property damage.
   (B)   Any person harboring chickens shall operate in a manner so as to not
pose a threat to public health. Individuals harboring chickens shall isolate
any chickens who are sick or diseased so as to not endanger the health and
well-being of other animals and/or humans. When necessary for protection of the
public health and safety, the City Code Enforcement Officer may require any
chicken to be kept or confined to a secured enclosure and the Code Enforcement
Officer shall make this determination in his or her absolute discretion as he
or she deems necessary to protect the welfare of the citizens of the city. This
provision is subordinate to any local, state, or federal code governing the
treatment of chickens in the event of a threat to human health.
   (C)   No individual harboring chickens shall slaughter chickens on the
harborer’s property.
   (D)   Any individual harboring chickens shall keep all chickens completely
and securely enclosed and under the control of the harborer on the harborer’s
property at all times.
   (E)   Individual harborers must provide a chicken coop and attached chicken
run that affords a combined 12 square feet per chicken and is clean, dry, odor-
free, and maintained in a sanitary condition, and provides adequate shelter
from the elements.
   (F)   Individual harborers must provide a chicken coop and attached chicken
run that, combined, provide adequate ventilation and adequate sun and shade and
that are both impermeable to rodents, wild birds, and predators, including, but
not limited to, dogs.
   (G)   Individual harborers must provide chickens with access to feed and
clean water at all times and shall maintain the feed and water in a manner that
is unavailable to rodents, wild birds, and predators.
   (H)   Individual harborers must provide adequate safeguards to prevent
unauthorized access to the chickens by members of the general public.
   (I)   Individual harborers shall keep the chicken coop, chicken run, and
surrounding area free from trash and accumulated droppings. The harborer shall
dispose of chicken waste and uneaten feed in a timely and sanitary manner.
   (J)   The chicken coop and run shall:
      (1)   Provide a sight fence or shrub screening of at least four feet in
height around both coop and run if visible to occupants of neighboring lots;
      (2)   The chicken coop and run must be located at least 20 feet from any
building used for human housing and not owned by the chicken harborer, and must
be located at least 12 feet from the property line of any neighboring lot; and
      (3)   All chicken coops and runs shall remain in a constant state of good
repair.
   (K)   Enforcement; penalty. The penalty for violating this section shall be
a civil penalty or fines as determined pursuant to the penalty schedule set
forth in §
10.99. The Code Enforcement Officer or any officer of the Police Department
shall have the authority to issue citations for the purpose of enforcing this
section. Any issues of dispute arising as a result of the issuance of a civil
citation for violation of this section shall be referred to and/or appealable
to the Code Enforcement and Nuisance Board pursuant to the rules and
regulations adopted by it and/or the City Council.
(Ord. 828-19, passed 4-8-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 NUMBER LIMITATION FOR CATS AND DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful to keep at any one residence within the city limits
more than four dogs or cats, or a combination of the same; however, a two-month
grace period shall be allowed for the disposition of litters. This shall
pertain to the animals that are kept outdoors only and shall, in no way,
pertain to the animals kept inside of a residence. No animals are allowed on
any unoccupied household premises.
(Ord. 828-19, passed 4-8-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 RESTRICTIONS UPON THE OWNERSHIP OF VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is widely recognized that potentially dangerous and
vicious animals are a serious threat to the safety and welfare of the citizens
of the city. The City Council strongly believes that certain restrictions,
requirements, and regulations should be established for owning or harboring
animals that are deemed to pose a threat to the general public's safety and
well-being. The restrictions and requirements for owning or the harboring of
animals that are defined as vicious shall be as follows.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PIT BULL DOG. Includes the Staffordshire Bull Terrier breed of dog; the
American Staffordshire Terrier breed of dog; the American Pit Bull Terrier
breed of dog; and any and all dogs that have the appearance and characteristics
of being predominantly of the breed of dogs known as  Staffordshire Bull
Terrier, American Staffordshire Terrier, or American Pit Bull Terrier, and that
conform to the standards established by the American Kennel Club for
Staffordshire Bull Terriers, American Staffordshire Terriers or American Kennel
Club for Rottweilers, Rotties, German Rottweilers, or American Rottweilers.
      ROTTWEILER. Includes a Rottweiler breed of dog; the Rottie breed of dog;
the German Rottweiler breed of dog; the American Rottweiler breed of dog; and
all dogs that have the appearance and characteristics of being predominantly of
the breeds of dogs known as Rottie, Rottweiler, German Rottweiler, or American
Rottweiler, and that conform to the standards established by the American
Kennel Club for Rottweilers, Rotties, German Rottweilers, or American
Rottweilers.
      VICIOUS ANIMAL. Includes:
         (a)   Any animal with a propensity, tendency, or disposition to
attack, to cause injury to, or to otherwise endanger the safety of human beings
or domestic animals;
         (b)   Any animal which chases or approaches a person upon the streets,
sidewalks, or any public place in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of
attack;
         (c)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the
purpose of fighting, or any animal trained for fighting;
         (d)   Any animal which attacks a human being or domestic animal
without provocation; and/or
         (e)   Pit Bulls, Rottweilers, and any mix breeds thereof.
   (C)   Proper confinement for vicious animals.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor within the
city a vicious animal unless it is at all times kept on the owner or harborer's
property, securely contained indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked
outdoor pen or shelter suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and
designed to prevent the animal from escaping. Such pen must have either sides
six feet high or a secure top. If it has no concrete, cement, or asphalt
bottom, the sides must be imbedded into the ground no less than one foot. All
such pens must provide protection from the elements for the animal and be kept
in a clean and sanitary condition.
      (2)   When any animal is required by this section to be confined, it
shall also be required that a conspicuous notice be posted at the place of
confinement of such a nature as to warn the public of the nature of the animal
therein confined.
   (D)   Restraint off owner's premises. Vicious animals shall be permitted off
the owner or harborer's property only if such animals are muzzled and
restrained by a substantial chain or leash not exceeding six feet in length and
under the control of a responsible adult at least 18 years of age. The muzzle
must be made in a manner that will not cause injury to the animal or interfere
with its vision or respiration but must prevent the animal from biting any
person or animal.
   (E)   Other requirements.
      (1)   No vicious animal shall be maintained, at any time, so as to
prevent access to the primary entrance to any residence.
      (2)   No person under 18 years of age shall be permitted to own, harbor,
or handle a vicious dog.
      (3)   Owners of vicious animals must provide proof to the City Clerk of
public liability insurance in the amount of at least $100,000, insuring the
owner for any personal injuries inflicted by his or her vicious animal.
   (F)   Enforcement, penalty, and exemptions.
      (1)   Authority to enforce this section shall be vested in officers of
the City Police Department and the City Animal Control Officer(s).
      (2)   The violation of any provision of this section shall constitute a
Class A misdemeanor punishable by a fine up to $500 or imprisonment up to 12
months in the county jail, or both. Each day of such violation of this section
shall constitute a separate offense.
      (3)   Specifically excluded from the provisions of this section shall be
the following;
         (a)   Trained service dogs that are actually being used to assist
disabled persons, such as dogs for the blind or deaf;
         (b)   A trained service dog that is in the custody of any law
enforcement person or agency and that is actually being used to assist in law
enforcement; and
         (c)   Licensed veterinary clinics.
(Ord. 828-19, passed 4-8-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS
§ 90.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
§ 90.16 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep a dog or dogs in the city
without first obtaining a license for each dog. This section and §
90.17 shall not apply to dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within
the city for a period less than 30 days.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 REGISTRATION AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All dogs kept in the city shall be registered as to sex, breed, name
and address of the owner, and name of the dog. At the time of the registration
the owner shall obtain a license tag for the dog and shall pay a fee as
established by City Council for each dog.
   (B)   The license tag shall be valid for one year from the date of issue. A
new tag shall be obtained each year by every owner and a new fee paid.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 LICENSE TAG TO BE ATTACHED TO DOG.
   The license tag shall be fastened to the collar of the dog and shall be worn
continuously, and the failure to have the tag so attached shall subject the
owner or keeper thereof to the penalties provided herein.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog, either licensed or
unlicensed, regardless of the age of the dog, to allow the dog to be at large
and unattended or to run in any street, park, lawn, garden, schoolyard,
playground, or on any other public or private property.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.20 NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the city which, by frequent
and habitual barking, howling, or yelping, creates unreasonably loud and
disturbing noises of a character, intensity, and duration as to disturb the
peace, quiet, and good order of one or more of the inhabitants of two or more
separate residences. Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to remain,
be lodged, or fed within any dwelling, yard, or enclosure which he or she
occupies or owns shall be considered as harboring the dog.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every police officer, peace officer, or other authorized official shall have
the authority to apprehend any dog running at large in violation of this
chapter and any unlicensed dog in the city, and to impound the dog or have the
dog impounded in the appropriate place.
§ 90.22 RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED DOG.
   The owner of any dog so impounded may reclaim the dog upon the payment of
all appropriate fees and after fulfilling any and all other requirements.
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day
the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
90.03 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than
$500, imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both for each offense.
(KRS 525.130)
   (C)   (1)   Violations of §
90.04 are a Class D felony.
      (2)   Each act of torture of a dog or cat may constitute a separate
offense.
(KRS 525.135)
   (D)   Any person who violates §
90.05 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500.
(KRS 436.600)
   (E)   Any person who violates §
90.09 shall be subject to a civil penalty or fines as determined pursuant to
the penalty schedule set forth in §
10.99.
   (F)   Any person who violates §
90.11 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor punishable by a fine up to $500
or imprisonment up to 12 months in the county jail, or both. Each day of such
violation of this section shall constitute a separate offense.
(Am. Ord. 828-19, passed 4-8-2019)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND THE LIKE
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Regulating the sale of fruits, vegetables, and food stuffs or wares and
merchandise in or near city streets
Streets
   
91.15   Routing of commonwealth and federal highways over city streets
   
91.16   Regulating the entrance of private passways, walks, and extensions into
streets
   
91.17   Obstructions in the streets
   
91.18   Protection of water hose in streets
Sidewalks
   
91.30   Property owner’s obligation to repair
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Adoption of ten-year payment for permanent improvement of sidewalks, see §
34.10
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 REGULATING THE SALE OF FRUITS, VEGETABLES, AND FOOD STUFFS OR WARES AND
MERCHANDISE IN OR NEAR CITY STREETS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, or
corporation to offer for sale or sell from truck or trucks or other vehicles,
upon or within two blocks of the Public Square in the city, any fruits or
vegetables not grown or produced by such person, firm, partnership, or
corporation, or his, her, or its tenants or employees upon land owned or rented
by such person, firm, partnership, or corporation.
      (2)   The City Treasurer, when issuing any license for the sale of any
fruits or vegetables as provided for in this division (A), shall inform the
applicant therefor of the provisions of this division (A), and shall also make
suitable notation of the same upon the licence issued.
      (3)   Nothing contained in this division (A) shall be construed as
restricting bona fide farmers or tenants from selling the fruits and vegetables
grown or produced upon their land, upon the Public Square, or within the two-
block area mentioned in this division (A).
      (4)   This division (A) shall be effective upon and after its passage,
approval, and publication as the law directs.
   (B)    It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, or
corporation to offer for sale from any truck or trucks or any other vehicle
within 200 feet of any church with the city limits any fruits, vegetables, or
produce not grown or produced by such person, firm, partnership, or
corporation, or his, her, or its tenants or employees, upon land owned or
rented by such person, firm, partnership, or corporation.
   (C)   The sale of fruits, vegetables, and produce from trucks or other
vehicles shall be unlawful and is prohibited upon the public streets or
sidewalks in the city, except in the following described space and location in
the city: the east side of S. First Street between Maple Street and Locust
Street.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or partnership
to place upon display merchandise for sale upon the sidewalks or any of them in
the city.
   (E)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, or
corporation to display for sale or sell goods, wares, and merchandise upon any
public way of the city.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (E), the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         PUBLIC WAY. Public streets, sidewalks, alleys, avenues, roads, lanes,
and the like, as defined in KRS 67A.871(9), except; however, nothing in this
division (E) shall be construed as prohibiting the sale of fruits, vegetables,
and produce of farmers produced by them on their private farms.
      (3)   This division (E) shall be construed to supplement the provisions
of Ord. 250 and 286, except wherein there is a conflict, in which instance the
provisions of this division (E) shall prevail and the provisions of such prior
ordinance or ordinances shall be deemed to be repealed.
   (F)   No food establishment or person, firms, or corporations, or operating
the same shall place any food stuffs upon the public streets and sidewalks of
the city for display purposes or to offer to sell, barter, or trade.
(Ord. 114, passed 6-4-1937; Ord. 215, passed 7-1-1948; Ord. 244, passed 10-4-
1951; Ord. 250, passed 6-6-1952; Ord. 286, passed 6-6-1957; Ord. 334, passed 6-
21-1962) Penalty, see §
91.99
STREETS
§ 91.15 ROUTING OF COMMONWEALTH AND FEDERAL HIGHWAYS OVER CITY STREETS.
   (A)   Whenever the Commonwealth Commissioner of Highways, by authority of
KRS 177.047 designated any streets or portions thereof, including viaducts and
bridges, as connecting links of commonwealth or federal maintained highways, or
necessary feeder streets thereto and thereby undertakes the future maintenance,
repair, construction, or reconstruction of such streets, bridges, or viaducts
in the manner provided by the aforesaid statutes, the Mayor Pro-Tem of said
city is hereby expressly authorized, instructed, and directed to enter into any
and all contracts and agreements with the said Department of Highways necessary
to carry out the purposes and provisions of said statutes.
   (B)   Should the Department of Highways construct or reconstruct any streets
in said city, such work shall be done by said Department as the agent of said
city, as set out in KRS 177.055.
(Ord. 320, passed 1-2-1961)
§ 91.16 REGULATING THE ENTRANCE OF PRIVATE PASSWAYS, WALKS, AND EXTENSIONS INTO
STREETS.
   (A)   Any person or persons hereafter desiring to open a passway on a street
or streets, alley or alleys, of the city into his or her private property for
any purpose shall apply to the Mayor and Chief of Police who are hereby
empowered to regulate and establish such entrances or passways and the same to
be so established that the street must be properly protected from water
entering the street or alley or alleys from all such private passways or walk
or extensions of walk or walks, cross ditches, or drains on the sides of the
streets or public alleys, must be large enough to fully take care of all water
which may flow through said ditches or drains during any rainy seasons.
   (B)   (1)   Any person or persons desiring to extend walkways or private
passways or such from private residences or other private place or places for
his or her own other convenience or for any other purpose, shall notify the
Mayor and Chief of Police of the city and shall erect all such extensions of
walks or passways under the supervision of said Mayor and Chief of Police.
      (2)   The officers shall take into consideration the amount of water
likely to pass through the ditches or drains or gutters on the sides of the
street or alley and shall have tiles or culverts under all such private
passways or walkways or any other kind of private entrance large enough to
fully carry and take care of all water that may pass through said ditches,
gutters, or drains during heavy rainy seasons.
   (C)   It shall further be the duty of the Mayor and Chief of Police to, in
such cases, see that all such private passways or walks be so constructed and
kept in such repair that they will not lead water out on the streets or public
alleys to the injury of the same.
   (D)   This section shall become a law and be in full force and effect on and
after its or their passage and publication as the law directs.
(Ord. 3, passed - -)
§ 91.17 OBSTRUCTIONS IN THE STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to throw, rake, or in any manner to put into the
ditches or gutters on the streets of city any leaves, grass, brush, ashes, or
garbage or any other thing or substance whereby the said ditches or gutters may
be obstructed, or whereby any such leaves, grass, brush, ashes, or garbage or
things or substances may be washed into culverts or tiles and obstruct the
same, thus causing water to flow through the streets to injury or destruction
of the same.
   (B)   This section shall become a law and be in full force and effect on and
after its passage and publication as the law directs.
(Ord. 2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18 PROTECTION OF WATER HOSE IN STREETS.
   (A)   In case of a fire, or in case the Fire Department is called out and
have laid or stretched a water hose for the purpose of conveying water from a
fire or water plug for the purpose of extinguishing a fire, it shall be
unlawful for any person or persons to drive or carry or in any other manner to
convey over, across, or into said water hose any automobile, truck, car, buggy,
wagon, bicycle, motorcycle, or any other vehicle whereby said water hose might
be injured.
   (B)   This section shall become a law and be in full force and effect on and
after its passage and publication as the law directs.
(Ord. 4, passed 9-7-1923) Penalty, see §
91.99
SIDEWALKS
§ 91.30 PROPERTY OWNER’S OBLIGATION TO REPAIR.
   (A)   All property owners who have had sidewalks along or abutting their
property and said sidewalks have for any reason been torn up or damaged or have
gotten into a bad state of repair, will immediately repair and rebuild said
sidewalks out of concrete according to the specifications for building
sidewalks.
   (B)   It is further ordained that all other property owners who do not have
sidewalks along and abutting their property, where there should be sidewalks,
or where it should be necessary to build sidewalks for themselves and the
traveling public, the necessity therefor to be determined by this Council will
build said sidewalks out of concrete, according to the plans and specifications
for building sidewalks in the city, immediately upon notice from the City
Council to said property owners to build and construct said sidewalks.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to fail to rebuild or repair said
walks and to build new sidewalks after they have received notice so to do.
   (D)   This section will become law and be in full force and effect on and
after its passage and publication, as required by law.
(Ord. 159, passed 12-3-1942) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, persons, firm or corporation violating §
91.01, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
fined not less than $1, nor more than $15 on each offense.
      (2)   Any person, firm, partners hip or corporation violating §
91.01(A) shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $5, nor more than $15
for each offense.
      (3)   Any such firm, person, corporation, or partnership violating §
91.01(D), shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not less than $1,
nor more than $15 for each offense, and each day that any such merchandise is
displayed upon any city sidewalk shall constitute a separate offense.
      (4)   Any person, firm, corporation, or partnership violating the
provisions of §
91.01(E), shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not less than $1, nor more than $15 for each offense,
and each day that such violation or violations continue shall constitute a
separate offense.
      (5)   Any persons, firms, or corporations violating §
91.01 (F) or any part thereof, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, shall be fined the sum of $5, and each day such food stuffs
are displayed or placed upon the public streets or sidewalks shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (C)   Any person or persons violating any of the provisions of §
91.16, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and fined a sum not less than
$1, nor more than $10 for each offense. After conviction, the person or persons
convicted shall pay $1 for each day said work for which he or she or she was
convicted is allowed to stay on the street or alley.
   (D)   Any person or persons violating §
91.17, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and fined a sum not less than
$1, nor more than $10 for each offense.
   (E)   Any person or persons violating any of the provisions of §
91.18, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and fined a sum of not less than
$1, nor more than $25 for each offense.
(Ord. 2, passed - -; Ord. 3, passed - -; Ord. 4, passed 9-7-1923; Ord. 114,
passed 6-4-1937; Ord. 286, passed 6-6-1957; Ord. 334, passed 6-21-1962)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.03   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
92.04   Abatement procedure
   
92.05   Nuisance created by others
   
92.06   Unlawful conduct
   
92.07   Standards for noise pollution; exemptions
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   International Property Maintenance Code, see §
150.07
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS. Any portion or parts of any motor driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   BONA FIDE FARMING OPERATION. The operation and maintenance of a farm,
situated on five contiguous acres or more of land used for the production of
livestock, poultry, poultry products, dairy, dairy products, or horticulture
products or for the growing of crops such as, but not limited to, tobacco,
corn, soybeans and wheat.
   CONSTRUCTION or DEMOLITION ACTIVITY. The erection (including excavation),
demolition, alteration, or repair of any building, structure or roadway, for
which all necessary and proper governmental permits have been obtained.
   INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Unable to move under its own power due to defective
or missing parts, and which has remained in such condition for a period of not
less than ten consecutive days.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any style or type of motor driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   NUISANCE. Any condition or the use of premises or of building exteriors
which is detrimental to the property of others or which causes or tends to
cause substantial diminution in the value of other properties or which renders
such properties as dangerous or detrimental or adverse to the health or welfare
or is offensive to the senses of the residents in the city.
   PARKING LOTS. Any off-street parking facility for public use, and the
approaches to same, whether publicly or privately-owned, and shall include but
not be limited to: parks, shopping centers, restaurants, entertainment centers,
taverns, car washes, banking or financial institutions, whether publicly or
privately-owned, operated, or controlled.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, association, partnership, joint venture,
corporation or any private entity of any nature.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any road, street, avenue, alley, boulevard, highway, lane, or
court, including the berm, shoulder or any public property adjacent thereto,
bridge, viaduct, trestle and the approaches to them, or sidewalk.
   SCRAP METAL. Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum, or
any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE. In a dangerous condition; having defective or missing
parts; or in such a condition generally as to be unfit for further use as a
conveyance.
   VEHICLE. Any machine or device in, on, or by which any person or property is
or may be transported or drawn on any right-of-way or parking lot.
(Ord. 809-16, passed 4-11-2016)
§ 92.02 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of the state as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided
in this chapter or in accordance with any other provision of law.
(Ord. 809-16, passed 4-11-2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or person having control or
management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance to develop
thereon. The following conditions are declared to be public nuisances:
   (A)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street. Any tree, stack, or other
object standing in such a condition that it will, if the condition is allowed
to continue, endanger the life, limb, or property of, or cause hurt, damage, or
injury to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways adjacent
thereto, by the falling thereof or of parts thereof.
   (B)   Accumulation of rubbish/debris and abandoned, discarded or unused
objects or equipment. Including, but not limited to, an accumulation on any
premises of filth, refuse, trash, garbage or other waste material and/or
abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment such as furniture, stoves,
refrigerators, toys, freezers, washers, dryers, cans, containers which endanger
the public health, welfare, or safety, or is materially detrimental to the
property of others or which causes or tends to cause a nuisance because of the
danger that it will catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin,
rodents, or insects, or blow rubbish into any street, sidewalk or property of
another or cause substantial diminution in the value of other properties.
Garbage containers deposited on the street 24 hours prior to scheduled pickup
and garbage containers left on the street 24 hours after scheduled pickup.
   (C)   Storage of explosives. The storage of explosive material which creates
a safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity.
   (D)   Weeds and grass. The excessive growth of weeds, grass or other
vegetation. Excessive growth shall be deemed the growth of weeds, grass or
other vegetation to a height in excess of one foot.
   (E)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered, or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation, or vault situated upon private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place.
   (F)   Trees and shrubbery, athletic goals and equipment, skateboard ramps,
vehicles obstructing streets, sidewalks and drainage. The growing and
maintenance of trees or shrubbery, the use or storage of athletic goals,
equipment, skateboard ramps or vehicles which in any way interferes with the
use, construction, or maintenance of streets or sidewalks, causes injury to
streets or sidewalks, or constitutes an obstruction to drainage.
   (G)   Keeping of animals. The failure to keep an animal’s pen, yard, lot or
other enclosure in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive
odors.
   (H)   Junk; scrap metal; motor vehicles. The storage of motor vehicles in an
inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for further use, automobile parts,
or scrap metal within the city limits except on premises authorized by the city
for such purposes.
(Ord. 809-16, passed 4-11-2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   When one of the conditions specified in §
92.03 is discovered, the Code Enforcement Officer discovering such conditions
shall give five days written notice to the owner of the property to remedy the
situation. This notice shall be mailed to the last known address of the owner
of the property as it appears on the current tax assessment roll.
   (B)   Upon failure of the owner of the property to comply, the Chairman of
the Board or designee may authorize city employees to go upon the property to
remove the rubbish, excessive growth of weeds or grass; or other condition
constituting a nuisance.
   (C)   The city shall have a lien against the property for the reasonable
value of labor and materials used in remedying the situation. The Chairman of
the Board or designee shall submit an affidavit to the County Clerk evidencing
the amount of the lien and the regularity of the proceedings to clear the
property. The affidavit shall be filed in the County Clerk’s office where it
shall constitute notice to all persons of the lien of the city.
   (D)   The lien shall bear interest at 6% per annum.
   (E)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges for the removal of
rubbish, excessive weeds and grass, or the correction of any condition
constituting a nuisance shall be sold for nonpayment for the same and the
proceeds of such sale shall be applied to pay the charges after deducting the
costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory liens. The foreclosure
shall be in equity in the name of the city and shall join all persons having an
interest in the property as shown in the record of the County Court Clerk’s
office. The foreclosure action may be maintained against any property for which
such a bill or lien has remained unpaid for 60 days after it has been rendered.
   (F)   In the alternative to the above procedure, the city, at its
discretion, may issue a citation to the offending property owner to appear in
the County District Court to answer to a misdemeanor offense.
(Ord. 809-16, passed 4-11-2016)
§ 92.05 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant, or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests, or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care ought to have become aware of.
(Ord. 809-16, passed 4-11-2016)
§ 92.06 UNLAWFUL CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to make, continue,
or cause to be made or continued, any unreasonably loud, harsh or excessive
noise which either annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose,
health, peace, or safety of others, unless the making and continuing of the
noise is necessary for the protection or preservation of property or the life,
health, or safety of a person or persons.
   (B)   The following acts are hereby declared to be unreasonably loud, harsh
or excessive noises in violation of this chapter, but the enumeration shall not
be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or other such audible signaling device on
any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle on any right-of-way, parking lot or
other public place, except as a danger warning, for an unreasonable period of
time;
      (2)   The use or operation of any radio, stereo, or other machine or
device for the producing, reproducing or amplification of sound in any vehicle
in such a manner as to create and unreasonably loud, harsh, or excessive noise,
that disturbs the peace, quiet or comfort of others;
      (3)   The use or operation of, or allowing the use or operation of, any
radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, or other machine or device
for the producing or reproducing of sound in such a manner as to create an
unreasonably loud, harsh or excessive noise, which disturbs the peace, quiet,
and comfort of others by creating or allowing a louder volume than is necessary
for the convenient hearing of the person or persons who are voluntarily in the
room, chamber, or vehicle in which any above described machine, device, or
musical instruments is located;
      (4)   The use or operation of any vehicle in such a manner as to produce
any unreasonably loud, harsh or excessive noise, or to discharge into the open
air the exhaust of any vehicle except through a muffler or other device which
will effectively prevent any unreasonably loud, harsh or excessive noises
therefrom;
      (5)   Creation of any unreasonably loud, harsh, or excessive noise in
connection with the loading or unloading of any vehicle, or by the operation of
any such vehicle; and
      (6)   The use of any mechanical loud speaker, amplifier, sound system,
stereo or radio on any moving or standing vehicle for advertising,
entertainment or any other purpose, in such a manner as to create an
unreasonably loud, harsh or excessive noise.
(Ord. 809-16, passed 4-11-2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 STANDARDS FOR NOISE POLLUTION; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Standards. The standards which shall be considered in determining
whether a violation exists shall include but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   The volume of the noise;
      (2)   The intensity of the noise;
      (3)   The volume and intensity of back-ground noise, if any;
      (4)   The proximity of the noise to a residential area, place of public
accommodation such as a hotel, motel, inn, campground and the like, health care
facilities, churches or schools;
      (5)   The nature and zoning of the area within which the noise emanates;
      (6)   The density of inhabitation of the area within which the noise
emanates;
      (7)   The time of day or night the noise occurs;
      (8)   The duration of the noise; and
      (9)   Whether the noise is recurrent, intermittent or constant.
   (B)   Exemptions. The following uses and activities shall be exempt:
      (1)   Noises originating or emanating from safety signals, warning
devices and emergency pressure relief valves;
      (2)   Noises resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle or law
enforcement training facilities;
      (3)   Noises resulting from construction or demolition activity provided
such activity takes place between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.;
      (4)   Noises relating to the use of farm machinery, or other machinery
for agricultural purposes in bona fide farming operations;
      (5)   Noises relating to the use of lawn mowers or other machinery for
landscaping purposes between the hours of sunrise and sunset;
      (6)   Noises originating or emanating from public recreational
facilities, such as but not limited to fairgrounds, sports arenas, sports
stadiums, amusement parks, racetracks and other public amusement
establishments; and
      (7)   The operation of any aircraft in conformity with, or pursuant to,
federal law, federal air regulations and/or air traffic control instructions to
include use of drones.
(Ord. 809-16, passed 4-11-2016)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   First offense. A fine of $50, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $50 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (B)   Second offense. A fine of $100, if paid within 30 days of citation;
and additional $100 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at
the rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (C)   Third offense. A fine of $500, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $500 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (D)   Attorney fees and legal costs. Nothing in this section will affect the
imposition of attorney fees or legal costs and this section does not repeal the
imposition of the same in prior ordinances or ordinances that may be enacted
and ordained after this section is enacted or ordained.
   (E)   Unlawful conduct. Any person violating §
92.06 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $250 for a first offense
within a two-year period. Any person violating any provision §
92.06 a second time within a two-year period shall be fined not less than $250
nor more than $500 and/or imprisoned for a period not exceeding 60 days. Any
person violating any provision of §
92.06 a third time within a two-year period shall be fined not less than $500
and/or imprisoned for a period not exceeding 180 days. Each separate occurrence
or each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate offense. It shall be a defense for an owner, lessee or
occupant of any premises involved in an offense by some other party, if there
is posted on said property a sign adequately noticeable in size (no larger than
12 square feet), which contains sufficient warnings as to the criminal
liability applicable for noise pollution violations. Said sign shall not
contain any other messages such as advertising for said business.
(Ord. 809-16, passed 4-11-2016)
CHAPTER 93: CEMETERIES
Section
   
93.01   Operation of Crescent Hill Cemetery
   
93.02   Setting the prices for Crescent Hill Cemetery
§ 93.01 OPERATION OF CRESCENT HILL CEMETERY.
   (A)   No interment by casket only, without any outside container, shall be
permitted at Cresent Hill Cemetery.
   (B)   All interments at Cresent Hill Cemetery shall have a concrete box or
vault, steel box or vault, or plastic vault. No wooden boxes or wooden vaults
shall be allowed.
   (C)   Interments which do not comply with the provisions of this section
shall not be permitted.
(Ord. 673-2000, passed 1-31-2000)
§ 93.02 SETTING THE PRICES FOR CRESCENT HILL CEMETERY.
   (A)   The price to be charged by the city for the base for each monument
erected in Crescent Hill Cemetery shall be the sum of $100 for a single and
$150 for a double and the Superintendent of said Cemetery shall have
supervision over the construction of any and all such bases and is empowered to
prescribe the requirements for the same as to size and quality of material to
be placed therein.
   (B)   (1)   The price of grave lots in Cresent Hill Cemetery are  $600  per
grave lot.
      (2)   No old-section lots shall be exchanged for lots in the new addition
to Crescent Hill Cemetery unless the old-section lots can be resold.
      (3)   Notwithstanding this increase in price, any lot owner may transfer
his or her lots to a member of his or her immediate family (parents, spouse,
children, brother, or sister) without any additional charge. This may be
accomplished by a conveyance by the lot owner to the city and a reconveyance by
the city to the lot owner’s relatives. There is a $5 administrative fee.
(Ord. 287, passed 6-6-1957; Ord. 445, passed 8-3-1964)
CHAPTER 94: FIREWORKS
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Storage of fireworks
   
94.03   Display fireworks
   
94.04   Permit fees
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANCILLARY FIREWORKS RETAILER. Any person, partnership, corporation or other
business entity which is open to the public year round and which offers for
sale, exposes for sale, sells at retail or wholesale, or keeps with the intent
to sell fireworks defined in KRS 227.702(1), with such sale being ancillary to
its primary business, with ANCILLARY being defined as 10% or less of the gross
sales of the business entity.
   COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR. The same definition as set out in KRS 227.710.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS. The same definition as set out in KRS 227.702.
   DISPLAY FIREWORKS. The same definition as set out in KRS 227.700, including
the applicable exceptions set forth in that statute.
   PERMANENT FIREWORKS RETAILER. Any person, partnership, corporation or other
business entity whish is open to the public year-round and which offers for
sale, exposes for sale, sells at retail or wholesale or keeps with the intent
to sell any consumer fireworks as its primary course of business.
   PYROTECHNIC DEVICES. The same definition as set out in KRS Chapter 227.
   SEASONAL FIREWORKS RETAILERS. The same definition as set out in KRS Chapter
227.715.
(Ord. 844-21, passed 7-12-2021)
§ 94.02 STORAGE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The storage of fireworks, consumer fireworks, display fireworks or
theatrical pyrotechnic devices at retail, wholesale, storage or manufacturing
facilities shall be reported in writing to the City of Scottsville Fire Chief
or his or her designee and shall comply with all of the provisions set out in
KRS Chapter 227, Nation Fire Association (NFPA) 1124 (current edition) and
other applicable federal and state laws with the exception that the storage of
fireworks, consumer fireworks, display fireworks or theatrical pyrotechnic
devices shall not be allowed within 75 feet of fuel pumps or in multiple-tenant
building. All such storage shall be in stand alone permanent structures. All
such stand-alone permanent structures shall have a minimum of 50 feet
separation from adjacent buildings and structures.
   (B)   The storage of such fireworks shall also comply with applicable city
building and fire regulations, zoning regulations and business registration
requirements and the notification to the Fire Chief or his or her designee
shall include a zoning verification letter and copy of the city’s business
registration form. The notification shall also include a site plan showing the
size of the lot, the location of the permanent structure, the setback of the
structure from the right-of-way, locations of adjacent structures, including
fuel pumps and other information that may be required by the Fire Chief. The
notification shall include a copy of a deed to the property of a written lease
from the owner or authorized agent of the owner of the property granting
permission or consent to the tenant to store fireworks at that location.
(Ord. 844-21, passed 7-12-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 DISPLAY FIREWORKS.
   (A)   No person, firm, partnership, corporation or other business entity
shall offer for sale, expose for sale, sell at retail, keep with the intent to
sell, possess, use or explode any display fireworks except as authorized in KRS
227.710.
   (B)   All permit applications shall be submitted a minimum of 15 days prior
to the proposed sale of fireworks, including consumer fireworks. Each seasonal
fireworks retailer and permanent fireworks retailer permit shall be valid for
one year and may be renewed annually for the same location.
   (C)   Ancillary fireworks retailers may only sell consumer fireworks as
defined in KRS 227.702(1). Ancillary fireworks retailers are not subject to the
remaining provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   The sale of fireworks, including consumer fireworks, by permanent
fireworks retailers and seasonal fireworks retailers is subject to the
provisions of KRS Chapter 227 and NFPA 1124 (current edition) except as set out
hereinbelow:
      (1)   The sale of consumer fireworks as defined in KRS 227.702(1) shall
be allowed in multiple-tenant buildings and in stand-alone structures. All
permitted structures shall have a minimum of 75 feet separation from adjacent
gas pumps.
      (2)   The sale of consumer fireworks as defined in KRS 277.702(1) shall
comply with applicable city building and fire regulations, zoning regulations,
sign regulations and business registration regulations and a copy of the city’s
business registration form shall be submitted with the permit application.
      (3)   The sale of consumer fireworks as defined in KRS 227.702(2) and (3)
shall not be allowed in multiple-tenant buildings and all such sales shall be
in stand-alone structures. All such stand-alone structures shall have a minimum
of 50 feet separation from adjacent buildings and structures and 75 feet
separation from and fuel pumps.
      (4)   The sale of consumer fireworks as defined in KRS 227.702(2) and (3)
shall comply with applicable city building and fire regulations, zoning
regulations, sign regulations and business registration form shall be submitted
with the permit application. The application shall also include a site plan
showing the size of the lot, the location of the stand-alone structure, the
setback of the structure from the right-of-way, locations of adjacent
structures, including fuel outlets and other fireworks retail locations, and
other information that may be required by the Fire Chief or his or her
designee. Applicants for fireworks sales permits, shall provide a copy of a
deed to the property or a written lease or similar document from the owner or
authorized agent of the owner of the property granting permission or consent
for the applicant to sell fireworks at that location.
      (5)   Any language in NFPA 1124 establishing a size exemption for the
applicability of NFPA 1124 is hereby repealed and all sales of fireworks,
including consumer fireworks, shall be subject to the provisions of this
chapter.
   (E)   No fireworks, including consumer fireworks, may be given to, offered
for sale, or sold to any person under the age of 18 and no person under the age
of 18 shall sell fireworks, including consumer fireworks, unless the individual
is supervised by a parent or guardian.
   (F)   Any person or business entity applying for a permit to sell consumer
fireworks as defined in KRS 227.702(2) and (3) shall provide proof of general
liability insurance in an amount of not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence for
bodily injury liability, property damage liability or both combined.
   (G)   Any permit issued for the sale of fireworks, including consumer
fireworks, shall be prominently displayed at each location where the fireworks
are sold.
   (H)   Appropriate city fire inspectors, building inspectors, code
enforcement officers and police officers shall be authorized to inspect the
permitted site without notice and without consent during the reasonable
operating hours of the permittee.
   (I)   Persons may use, ignite, fire or explode those fireworks authorized by
KRS Chapter 227 and this chapter in the city. Fireworks, including consumer
fireworks, may only be used between the hours of noon and 10:00 p.m. on June 27
through July 3 and on July 5 and between the hours of noon and 11:00 p.m. on
July 4 of any year. Any person wishing to use, ignite, fire or explode those
fireworks authorized by KRS 227 and this chapter in the city on any other days
shall obtain a permit from the city Fire Chief or his or her designee with the
issuance of the permit conditioned on the applicant complying with all
applicable state and local laws, rules and regulations. The permit application
shall be filed no later than 15 days prior to the proposed use of the fireworks
and shall be on a form provided by the city. The permit, if granted, shall be
valid for a four-hour period on the permitted date between the hours of noon
and 9:00 p.m. Consumer fireworks, as defined in KRS 227.702(2) and (3) may only
be used by individuals at least 18 years of age and shall not be ignited within
200 feet of any structure, vehicle or any other person. Fireworks, including
consumer fireworks, shall not be ignited or discharged from motor vehicle and
shall not be ignited or discharged on property of another without the consent
of the owner or occupant or on public property.
   (J)   New Year’s Eve from 10:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m. New Year’s Day.
(Ord. 844-21, passed 7-12-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 PERMIT FEES.
   Due to the need to closely inspect and monitor the sale of fireworks, the
city hereby imposes fees to cover the cost of the inspection of facilities and
inspections of the sale of fireworks. The fees for permits required by this
chapter are as follows:
   (A)   There shall be no fee for the review, issuance and inspections for a
display firework permit or for the use permit required in §
94.03(I) above.
   (B)   The fee for the review, issuance and inspections for a seasonal
fireworks retail permit and a permanent fireworks retail permit for the sale of
consumer fireworks as defined in KRS 227.702(1) shall be $25 for the initial
annual permit and the same for each annual renewal. This permit fee shall be in
addition to all other occupational license fees payable by the permittee.
   (C)   The fee for the review, issuance and inspections for a seasonal
fireworks retail permit and a permanent fireworks retail permit for the sale of
consumer fireworks as defined in KRS 227.702(2) and (3) shall be $1,000
annually. This permit fee shall be in addition to all other occupational
license fees payable by the permittee. If consumer fireworks as defined in KRS
227.702(1) are also sold, the total annual fee shall be $1,000.
   (D)   All permits required by this chapter shall be issued by the Fire Chief
or his or her designee. All permit fees shall be payable to the city and are to
be submitted to the City’s Treasurer located in the City-County Building prior
to the issuance of any permit.
(Ord. 844-21, passed 7-12-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person convicted of violating § 94-03(I) shall be deemed guilty of
a violation and subject to the monetary fine set out in the Kentucky Revised
Statues.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violation the remaining provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more
than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both.
   (C)   The Fire Chief may revoke or suspend the permit of any person or
business entity that violates the provisions of this chapter, including by not
limited to, the failure of the permittee to comply with this chapter and other
laws and regulations involving the sale, display or storage of fireworks, the
failure of the permittee to pay the appropriate permit fees and other taxes and
fees payable to the city, and the submission by the permittee of an application
that contains material false or untrue statements.
   (D)   Any fireworks started, sold or used in violation of this chapter my be
removed by the Fire Chief or his or her designee in cooperation with the State
Fire Marshal pursuant to the provisions of KRS 227.750.
(Ord. 844-21, passed 7-12-2021)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX
      
111.   PERMITS AND LICENSES
      
112.   LABOR PRACTICES
      
113.   ADULT BUSINESSES
      
114.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL
      
115.   CANNABIS BUSINESS OPERATIONS
CHAPTER 110: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Occupational license application required
   
110.03   Occupational license tax payment required
   
110.04   Apportionment
   
110.05   Employers to withhold
   
110.06   Returns required
   
110.07   Extensions
   
110.08   Refunds
   
110.09   Federal audit provisions
   
110.10   Administrative provisions
   
110.11   Information to remain confidential
   
110.12   Use of occupational license tax
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any enterprise, activity, trade, occupation, profession, or
undertaking of any nature conducted for gain or profit. BUSINESS shall not
include a board of trade, chambers of commerce, trade associations, or unions,
or other associations performing services usually performed by trade
associations or unions as recognized by the Internal Revenue Service. BUSINESS
shall not include funds, foundations, corporations, or associations organized
and operated for the exclusive and sole purpose of religious, charitable,
scientific, literary, educational, civic, or fraternal purposes, where no part
of the earnings, incomes, or receipts of such unit, group, or association,
inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or other person.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. Each separate corporation, limited liability company,
business development corporation, partnership, limited partnership, sole
proprietorship, association, joint stock company, receivership, trust,
professional service organization, or other legal entity through which business
is conducted.
   CITY. The City of Scottsville. Kentucky.
   COMPENSATION. Wages, salaries, commissions, or any other form of
remuneration paid or payable by an employer for services performed by an
employee, which are required to be reported for federal income tax purposes and
adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Includes any amounts contributed by an employee to any retirement,
profit sharing, or deferred compensation plan, which are deferred for federal
income tax purposes under a salary reduction agreement or similar arrangement,
including, but not limited to, salary reduction arrangements under I.R.C. §§
401(a), 401(k), 402(e), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 414(h), or 457; and
      (2)   Includes any amounts contributed by an employee to any welfare
benefit, fringe benefit, or other benefit plan made by salary reduction or
other payment method which permits employees to elect to reduce federal taxable
compensation under the Internal Revenue Code, including, but not limited to,
I.R.C. § 125 and § 132.
   CONCLUSION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The date that the adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service to net income as reported on the business entity’s
federal income tax return become final and unappealable.
   EMPLOYEE.
      (1)   Any person who renders services to another person or any business
entity for compensation, including an officer of a corporation and any officer,
employee, or elected official of the United States, a state, or any political
subdivision of a state, or any agency of instrumentality of any one or more of
the above.
      (2)   A person classified as an independent contractor under the Internal
Revenue Code shall not be considered an EMPLOYEE.
   EMPLOYER. The person for whom an individual performs or performed any
service, of whatever nature, as the employee of such person, except that:
      (1)   If the person for whom the individual performs or performed the
services does not have control of the payment of the wages for such services,
the term EMPLOYER means the person having control of the payment of such wages;
      (2)   In the case of a person paying wages on behalf of a nonresident
alien individual, foreign partnership, or foreign corporation, not engaged in
trade or business within the United States, the term EMPLOYER means such
person;
   FINAL DETERMINATION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The revenue agent’s report or
other documents reflecting the final and unappealable adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service.
   FISCAL YEAR. An accounting period of 12 months ending on the last day of any
month other than December.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code in effect on December 31,
2007, and as subsequently amended.
   NET PROFIT. Gross income as defined in I.R.C. § 61, minus all the deductions
from gross income allowed by I.R.C. Ch. 1 and adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Includes any amount claimed as a deduction for state tax or local
tax which is computed, in whole or in part, by reference to gross or net income
and which is paid or accrued to any state of the United States, local taxing
authority in a state, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, or any foreign country
or political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Includes any amount claimed as a deduction that directly or
indirectly is allocable to income which is either exempt from taxation or
otherwise not taxed;
      (3)   Includes any amount claimed as a net operating loss carryback or
carryforward allowed under I.R.C. Ch. 172;
      (4)   Includes any amount of income and expenses passed through
separately as required by the Internal Revenue Code to an owner of a business
entity that is a pass-through entity for federal tax purposes; and
      (5)   Excludes any amount of income that is exempt from state taxation by
the Commonwealth Constitution, or the Constitution and statutory laws of the
United States.
   PERSON.
      (1)   Every natural person, whether a resident or nonresident of the
city.
      (2)   Whenever the word PERSON is used in a clause prescribing and
imposing a penalty in the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as
applied to a partnership or other form of unincorporated enterprise, shall mean
the partners or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, shall mean the
officers and directors thereof.
   RETURN or REPORT. Any properly completed and, if required, signed form,
statement, certification, declaration, or any other document permitted or
required to be submitted or filed with the city.
   SALES REVENUE. Receipts from the sale, lease, or rental of goods, services,
or property.
   TAX DISTRICT. Any city of the first through the fifth class with the
authority to levy net profits or occupational license taxes.
   TAXABLE NET PROFIT.
      (1)   In case of a business entity having payroll or sales revenue only
within the city means net profit as defined in above.
      (2)   In case of a business entity having payroll or sales revenue both
within and without the city means net profit as defined above and as
apportioned under §
110.04.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year or fiscal year ending during the calendar
year, upon the basis of which net profit is computed.
(Ord. 745-08, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 110.02 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person and business entity engaged in any business in the city
shall be required to apply for and obtain a occupational license form the city
before the commencement of business or in the event of a change of business
status.
   (B)   Licensees are required to notify the city of any changes of address,
of the cessation of business activity, or any other changes which render the
information supplied to the city in the license application inaccurate.
(Ord. 745-08, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 110.03 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX PAYMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B) below, every person or
business entity engaged in any business for profit and any person or business
entity that is required to make a filing with the Internal Revenue Service or
the Commonwealth Revenue Cabinet shall be required to file and pay to the city
an occupational license tax for the privilege of engaging in such activities
within the city.
      (2)   The occupational license tax shall be measured by 1.5% of:
         (a)   All wages and compensation paid or payable in the city for work
done or services performed or rendered in the city by every resident and
nonresident who is an employee;
         (b)   The net profit from business conducted in the city by a resident
or nonresident business entity; and
         (c)   Also, there is an annual minimum payment of $30 for each year.
   (B)   The occupational license tax imposed in this section shall not apply
to the following:
      (1)   Any exemption provided by the Kentucky Revised Statutes; and
      (2)   The occasional, casual sale by county residents of vegetables and
produce grown in the county.
(Ord. 745-08, passed 6-9-2008) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 APPORTIONMENT.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) below, net profit shall be
apportioned as follows:
      (1)   For business entities with both payroll and sales revenue in more
than one tax district, by multiplying the net profit by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the payroll factor described in division (B) below, plus
the sales factor described in division (C) below, and the denominator of which
is two;
      (2)   For business entities with sales revenue in more than one tax
district, by multiplying the net profit by the sales factor as set forth in
division (C) below; and
      (3)   For the purposes of this division (A) and divisions (B) through (D)
below, the business entity shall file an apportionment form provided by the
Occupational Tax Office.
   (B)   The payroll factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
amount paid or payable in the city during the tax period by the business entity
for compensation, and the denominator of which is the total compensation paid
or payable by the business entity everywhere during the tax period.
Compensation is paid or payable in the city based on the time the individual’s
service is performed within the city.
   (C)   The sales factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
sales revenue of the business entity in the city during the tax period, and the
denominator of which is the total sales revenue of the business entity
everywhere during the tax period.
      (1)   The sales, lease, or rental of tangible personal property is in the
city if:
         (a)   The property is delivered or shipped to a purchaser, other than
the United States government, or to the designee of the purchaser within the
city regardless of the f.o.b. point or other conditions of the sale; or
         (b)   The property is shipped from an office, store, warehouse,
factory, or other place of storage in the city and the purchaser is the U.S.
government.
      (2)   Sales revenues, other than revenue from the sale, lease, or rental
of tangible personal property or the lease or rental of real property, are
apportioned to the city based upon a fraction, the numerator of which is the
time spent in performing such income-producing activity within the city and the
denominator of which is the total time spent performing that income-producing
activity.
      (3)   Sales revenue from the sale, lease, or rental of real property is
allocated to the tax district where the property is located.
   (D)   If the apportionment provisions of this section do not fairly
represent the extent of the business entity’s activity in the city, the
business entity may petition the city or the city may require in respect to all
or any part of the business entity’s business activity, if reasonable:
      (1)   Separate accounting;
      (2)   The exclusion of any one or more of the factors;
      (3)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors which will fairly
represent the business entity’s business activity in the city; or
      (4)   The employment of any other method to effectuate an equitable
allocation and apportionment of net profit.
   (E)   When compensation is paid or payable for work done or services
performed or rendered by an employee, both within and without the city, the
license tax shall be measured by that part of the compensation paid or payable
as a result of work done or service performed or rendered within the city. The
license tax shall be computed by obtaining the percentage which the
compensation for work performed or services rendered within the city bears to
the total wages and compensation paid or payable. In order for the city to
verify the accuracy of a taxpayer’s reported percentages under this division
(E), the taxpayer shall maintain adequate records.
(Ord. 745-08, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 110.05 EMPLOYERS TO WITHHOLD.
   (A)   Every employer making payment of compensation to an employee shall
deduct and withhold upon the payment of the compensation any tax imposed
against the compensation by the city. Amounts withheld shall be paid to the
city in accordance with §
110.03.
   (B)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall, for the quarter ending after January 1 and for each quarter ending
thereafter, on or before the end of the month following the close of each
quarter, make a return and report to the city, and pay to the city the tax
required to be withheld under this section, unless the employer is permitted or
required to report within a reasonable time after some other period as
determined by the city.
   (C)   Every employer who fails to withhold or pay to the city any sums
required by this chapter to be withheld and paid shall be personally and
individually liable to the city for any sum or sums withheld or required to be
withheld in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (D)   The city shall have a lien upon all the property of any employer who
fails to withhold or pay over to the city sums required to be withheld under
this section. If the employer withholds, but fails to pay the amounts withheld
to the city, the lien shall commence as of the date the amounts withheld were
required to be paid to the city. If the employer fails to withhold, the lien
shall commence at the time the liability of the employer is assessed by the
city.
   (E)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall, annually on or before February 28 of each year, complete and file on a
form furnished or approved by the city a reconciliation of the occupational
license tax withheld where compensation is paid or payable to employees. Either
copies of federal forms W-2 and W-3, transmittal of wage and tax statements or
a detailed employee listing with the required equivalent information, as
determined by the city, shall be submitted.
   (F)   Every employer shall furnish each employee a statement on or before
January 31 of each year showing the amount of compensation and occupational
license tax deducted by the employer from the compensation paid to the employee
for payment to the city during the preceding calendar year.
   (G)   An employer shall be liable for the payment of the tax required to be
deducted and withheld under this section.
   (H)   The President, Vice-President, Secretary, Treasurer, or any other
person holding an equivalent corporate office of any business entity subject to
this chapter shall be personally and individually liable, both jointly and
severally, for any tax required to be withheld from compensation paid to one or
more employees of any business entity, and neither the corporate dissolution or
withdrawal of the business entity from the city, nor the cessation of holding
any corporate office shall discharge that liability of any person; provided,
that the personal and individual liability shall apply to each or every person
holding the corporate office at the time the tax becomes or became obligated.
No person shall be personally and individually liable under this division (H)
who had no authority to collect, truthfully account for, or pay over any tax
imposed by this chapter at the time that the taxes imposed by this chapter
become or became due.
   (I)   (1)   Every employee receiving compensation in the city subject to the
tax imposed under §
110.03 shall be personally liable for the tax notwithstanding the provisions of
divisions (G) and (H) above. In all cases where the employer does not withhold
the tax levied under this chapter from the employee, such employee or employees
shall be responsible for filing with the city each quarter in the same manner
as if they were the employer.
      (2)   (a)   If an employer fails, to or is not required to withhold,
report, or pay the license fee, it shall become the duty of the employee to
file with the city. The only employer that is not required to withhold, report,
and pay the occupational license tax is the federal government including the
U.S. Postal Service. The payment required to be made by an employee can be made
quarterly for the periods ending March 31, June 30, September 30, and December
31 of each year, or at anytime the employee wishes to make an estimated payment
for the year in which wages are earned. All license fees must be received by
February 28 for the preceding calendar year, together with a copy of the
employee’s W-2 form.
         (b)   Employers not required to withhold, report, or pay the license
fee must annually during the month of January of each year, make a return to
the Occupational Tax Administrator, in which is set forth the name and Social
Security number of each employee of the employer during the preceding calendar
year, giving the amount of salaries, wages, commissions, or other compensation
earned during such preceding year by each such employee.
         (c)   This list shall include all current full-time employees, part-
time employees, temporary employees, and terminated employees whether it be
voluntary or involuntary.
(Ord. 745-08, passed 6-9-2008) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 RETURNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All business entity returns for the preceding taxable year shall be
made by April 15 of each year, except returns made on the basis of a fiscal
year, which shall be made by the fifteenth day of the fourth month following
the close of the fiscal year. Blank forms for returns shall be supplied by the
city.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of its federal income tax
return and all supporting statements and schedules at the time of filing its
occupational license tax return with the city. Whenever, in the opinion of the
city it is necessary to examine the federal income tax return of any business
entity in order to audit the return, the city may compel the business entity to
produce for inspection a copy of any statements and schedules in support
thereof that have not been previously filed. The city may also require copies
of reports of adjustments made by the federal government.
   (C)   Every business entity subject to a occupational license tax governed
by the provisions of this chapter shall keep records, render under oath
statements, make returns, and comply with rules as the city from time to time
may prescribe. Whenever the city deems it necessary, the city may require a
business entity, by notice served to the business entity, to make a return,
render statements under oath or keep records as the city deems sufficient to
determine the tax liability the business entity.
   (D)   The city may require, for the purpose of ascertaining the correctness
of any return or for the purposes of making an estimate of the taxable income
of any business entity, the attendance of a representative of the business
entity or of any other person having knowledge in the premises.
   (E)   The full amount of the unpaid tax payable by any business entity as it
appears from the face of the return shall be paid to the city at the time
prescribed for filing the occupational license tax return, determined without
regard to any extension of time for filing the return.
   (F)   (1)   It shall be the responsibility of persons who make Federal Form
1099 non-employee compensation payments to natural persons other than employees
for services performed within the city to maintain records of such payments and
to report such payments to the city. Said payments must be reported on by
remitting Federal Form 1099 by February 28 of the year following the close of
the calendar year in which the non-employee compensation was paid. If a
business entity or person is not required to remit Federal Form 1099 to the
IRS, including, but not limited to, payments less than $600, he, she, or it are
still liable to remit the equivalent information to the city.
      (2)   The information required to be reported by the licensee shall
include:
         (a)   Payer’s name, address, Social Security and/or federal
identification number;
         (b)   Recipient’s name and address;
         (c)   Recipient’s Social Security and/or federal identification
number;
         (d)   Amount of non-employee compensation paid in the calendar year;
and
         (e)   Amount of non-employee compensation earned in the or city for
the calendar year.
(Ord. 745-08, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 110.07 EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The city may grant any business entity an extension of not more than
six months unless a longer extension has been granted by the Internal Revenue
Service or is agreed to by the city and the business entity, for filing its
return, if the business entity, on or before the date prescribed for payment of
the occupational license tax, requests the extension and pays the amount
properly estimated as its tax.
   (B)   If the time for filing a return is extended, the business entity shall
pay as part of the tax an amount equal to 12% per annum simple interest on the
tax shown due on the return, but not been previously paid, from the time the
tax was due until the return is actually filed and the tax paid to the city. A
fraction of a month is counted as an entire month.
(Ord. 745-08, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 110.08 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Where there has been an overpayment of tax under §
110.05, a refund or credit shall be made to the employer only to the extent
that the amount of the overpayment was not deducted and withheld under §
110.05 by the employer, unless written application for refund or credit is
received by the city from the employer within two years from the date the
overpayment was made, no refund or credit shall be allowed.
   (B)    An employee who has compensation attributable to activities performed
outside the city based on time spent outside the city whose employer has
withheld and remitted to this city the occupational license tax on the
compensation attributable to activities performed outside the city, may file
for a refund within two years of the date prescribed by law for the filing of a
return. The employee shall provide a schedule and computation sufficient to
verify the refund claim and the city may confirm with the employer the
percentage of time spent outside the city and the amount of compensation
attributable to activities performed outside the city prior to approval of the
refund.
(Ord. 745-08, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 110.09 FEDERAL AUDIT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   As soon as practicable after each return is received, the city
may examine and audit the return. If the amount of tax computed by the city is
greater than the amount returned by the business entity, the additional tax
shall be assessed and a notice of assessment mailed to the business entity by
the city within five years from the date the return was filed, except as
otherwise provided in this division (A).
         (a)   In the case of a failure to file a return or of a fraudulent
return, the additional tax may be assessed at any time.
         (b)   In the case of a return where a business entity understates net
profit or omits an amount properly includable in net profits, or both, which
understatement or omission, or both, is in excess of 25% of the amount of net
profit stated in the return, the additional tax may be assessed at any time
within six years after the return was filed.
         (c)   In the case of an assessment of additional tax relating directly
to adjustments resulting from a final determination of a federal audit, the
additional tax may be assessed before the expiration of the times provided in
this division (A) or six months from the date the city receives the final
determination of the federal audit from the business entity, whichever is
later.
      (2)   The times provided in this division (A) may be extended by
agreement between the business entity and the city. For the purposes of this
division (A), a return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing
the return shall be considered as filed on the last day. Any extension granted
for filing the return shall also be considered as extending the last day
prescribed by law for filing the return.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of the final determination
of the federal audit within 30 days of the conclusion of the federal audit.
   (C)   The city may initiate a civil action for the collection of any
additional tax within the times prescribed in division (A) above.
(Ord. 745-08, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 110.10 ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No suit shall be maintained in any court to restrain or delay the
collection or payment of the tax levied by this chapter.
   (B)   Any tax collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter may be
refunded or credited within two years of the date prescribed by law for the
filing of a return or the date the money was paid to the city, whichever is the
later, except that:
      (1)   In any case where the assessment period contained in §
110.09 has been extended by an agreement between the business entity and the
city, the limitation contained in this division (B) shall be extended
accordingly; and
      (2)   (a)   If the claim for refund or credit relates directly to
adjustments resulting from a federal audit, the business entity shall file a
claim for refund or credit within the time provided for in this division (B) or
six months from the conclusion of the federal audit, whichever is later.
         (b)   For the purposes of this division (B)(2) and division (B)(3)
below, a return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the
return shall be considered as filed on the last day.
      (3)   The authority to refund or credit overpayments of taxes collected
pursuant to this chapter is vested exclusively in the city.
(Ord. 745-08, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 110.11 INFORMATION TO REMAIN CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   No present or former employee of the city shall intentionally and
without authorization inspect or divulge any information acquired by him or her
of the affairs of any person, or information regarding the tax schedules,
returns, or reports required to be filed with the city or other proper officer,
or any information produced by a hearing or investigation insofar as the
information may have to do with the affairs of the person’s business. This
prohibition does not extend to information required in prosecutions for making
false reports or returns for taxation, or any other infraction of the tax laws,
or in any way made a matter of public record, nor does it preclude furnishing
any taxpayer or the taxpayer’s properly authorized agent with information
respecting his or her own return. Further, this prohibition does not preclude
any employee of the city from testifying in any court, or from introducing as
evidence returns or reports filed with the city in an action for violation of a
the city tax laws or in any action challenging the city laws.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to disclose to the Commonwealth
Commissioner of Revenue or his or her duly authorized agent all such
information and rights to inspect any of the books and records of the city if
the Commonwealth Commissioner of Revenue grants to the city the reciprocal
right to obtain information form the files and records of the Commonwealth
Department of Revenue and maintains the privileged character of the information
so furnished; provided further, that the city may publish statistics based on
such information in such a manner as not to reveal data respecting net profits
or compensation of any person or business entity.
   (C)   In addition, the city is empowered to execute similar reciprocity
agreements as described in division (B) above with any other taxing entity
should there be a need for exchange of information in order to effect diligent
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 745-08, passed 6-9-2008) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.12 USE OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX.
   All money derived from the license taxes under the provisions of this
chapter shall be paid to the city and placed to the credit of the city’s
General Revenue Fund.
(Ord. 745-08, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   A business entity subject to tax on net profits may be subject
to a penalty equal to 5% of the tax due for each calendar month or fraction
thereof if the business entity:
         (a)   Fails to file any return or report on or before the due date
prescribed for filing or as extended by the city; or
         (b)   Fails to pay the tax computed on the return or report on or
before the due date prescribed for payment.
      (2)   The total penalty levied pursuant to this division (A) shall not
exceed 25% of the total tax due; however, the penalty shall not be less than
$25.
   (B)   Every employer who fails to file a return or pay the tax on or before
the date prescribed under §
110.05 may be subject to a penalty in an amount equal to 5% of the tax due for
each calendar month or fraction thereof. The total penalty levied pursuant to
this division (B) shall not exceed 25% of the total tax due; however, the
penalty shall not be less than $25.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer shall pay as part of the tax an amount equal to 12% per
annum simple interest on the tax shown due, but not previously paid from the
time the tax was due until the tax is paid to the city. A fraction of a month
is counted as an entire month.
   (D)   Every tax imposed by this chapter, and all increases, interest, and
penalties thereon, shall become, from the time the tax is due and payable, a
personal debt of the taxpayer to the city.
   (E)   The city may enforce the collection of the occupational tax due under
§
110.03 and any fees, penalties, and interest as provided in divisions (A)
through (D) above by civil action in a court of appropriate jurisdiction. To
the extent authorized by law, the city shall be entitled to recover all court
costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by it in enforcing any provision of
this chapter.
   (F)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any person,
business entity, or employer who willfully fails to make a return, willfully
makes a false return, or who willfully fails to pay taxes owing or collected,
with the intent to evade payment of the tax or amount collected, or any part
thereof, shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (G)   Any person who willfully aids or assists in, or procures, counsels, or
advises the preparation or presentation under, or in connection with, any
matter arising under this chapter of a return, affidavit, claim, or other
document, which is fraudulent or is false as to any material matter, whether or
not the falsity or fraud is with the knowledge or consent of the person
authorized or required to present the return, affidavit, claim, or document,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (H)   A return for the purpose of this section shall mean and include any
return, declaration, or form prescribed by the city and required to be filed
with the city by the provisions of this chapter or by the rules of the city or
by written request for information to the business entity by the city.
   (I)   Any person violating the provisions of §
110.11 by intentionally inspecting confidential taxpayer information without
authorization, shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not longer
than six months, or both. Any person violating the provisions of §
110.11, by divulging confidential taxpayer information, shall be fined not more
than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.
(Ord. 745-08, passed 6-9-2008)
CHAPTER 111: PERMITS AND LICENSES
Section
Licenses
   
111.01   Insurance company license fees
   
111.02   Exempting produce from occupational license fee
   
111.03   Administrative hold on delinquent parties
LICENSES
§ 111.01 INSURANCE COMPANY LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for
the privilege of engaging in the business of insurance with the corporate
limits of the city.
   (B)   The license fee imposed on each insurance company which issues life
insurance policies on the lives of persons residing within the corporate limits
of the city shall be 7% on the premiums actually collected within each calendar
quarter by reason of the issuance of such policies.
   (C)   The license fee imposed on each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be 7% of the
premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the
issuance of such policies on risks located within the corporate limits of the
city on those classes of business which such company is authorized to transact,
less all premiums returned to policy holders; however, no license fee or tax
shall be imposed on the insurance policies that are exempt per KRS 91A.080(10).
   (D)   All license fees imposed by this section shall be due no later than 30
days after the end of each calendar quarter. License fees which are not paid on
or before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined
in KRS 131.010(6), plus a penalty of 10%.
   (E)   Every insurance company subject to the license fee imposed by this
section shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city with a written breakdown
of all collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories
of insurance:
      (1)   Casualty;
      (2)   Automobile;
      (3)   Inland marine;
      (4)   Fire and allied permits;
      (5)   Health; and
      (6)   Life.
   (F)   This section shall become effective July 1, 2017.
(Ord. 595, passed 11-13-1984; Ord. 800-15, passed 3-12-2015; Ord. 815-17,
passed 3-13-2017)
§ 111.02 EXEMPTING PRODUCE FROM OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE.
   There shall be no occupational license fee for the sale of vegetables and
produce by residents of the county when such products were grown and produced
in the county.
(Ord. 573, passed 11-10-1980)
§ 111.03 ADMINISTRATIVE HOLD ON DELINQUENT PARTIES.
   Any person, business or legal entity shall be administratively ineligible
for the issuance of any license, permit or other approval issued by the city if
any of the following conditions exist:
   (A)   Unpaid city ad valorem property taxes.
   (B)   Unpaid fines, penalties, abatement costs or assessments or a final
order of a violation of any code or ordinance of the city.
   (C)   Delinquent on payment or filing any occupational or net profits
license, insurance premium taxes or any other taxes or payments of any type
owed to the city, including utilities (natural gas, water, sewer and garbage).
   (D)   Any administrative hold imposed by this section shall run with and be
appurtenant to the land of the violator and shall be applicable and binding on
the violator’s successors, heirs or devisees providing that they have actual or
constructive (recording) notice of the delinquent obligation.
(Ord. 865-22, passed 12-12-2022; Ord. 868-23, passed 4-10-2023)
CHAPTER 112: LABOR PRACTICES
Section
Classifying and Regulating Labor Organizations and Labor Solicitors
   
112.01   Definitions and classifications
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Application
   
112.04   License fee
   
112.05   Revocation of license
Picketing
   
112.20   Definitions and classifications
   
112.21   Employee’s right to self-organize
   
112.22   Interference with picketing
   
112.23   Force, coercion, threats, and the like
   
112.24   Mass picketing
   
112.25   Interference with business transactions or deliveries
   
112.26   Loitering
   
112.27   Union limitations
   
112.28   Inducement
 
   
112.99   Penalty
CLASSIFYING AND REGULATING LABOR ORGANIZATIONS AND LABOR SOLICITORS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS AND CLASSIFICATIONS.
   (A)   As used in this subchapter, the terms “labor organization”, “labor
organizer and promoter”, and “labor solicitor” shall be specifically defined as
set forth pursuant to this subchapter, other words and terms shall be construed
to embrace the meaning in popular usage.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LABOR ORGANIZATION. Any organization of any kind, or any agency or
employee, representation, committee, or plan, in which employees participate
and which exists for the purpose, in whole or in part, of dealing with
employers concerning grievances, labor disputes, wages, rates of pay, hours of
employment, or conditions of work and which requires payment of fees, dues, or
anything of value as a condition of membership therein.
      LABOR ORGANIZER and PROMOTER. Any person who, for pecuniary or financial
compensation, or for any promise of reward or remuneration, solicits any
employee or employees to become a member or members of any labor organization.
Any such person doing so shall be considered as carrying on, or conducting the
business, trade, occupation, or profession of a LABOR ORGANIZER or PROMOTER.
      LABOR SOLICITOR. Any person who for pecuniary or financial compensation,
or for any promise of reward or remuneration, solicits any employee or
employees to become a member or members, of any labor organization. Any such
person doing so shall be considered as carrying on, or conducting the business,
trade, occupation, or profession of LABOR SOLICITOR.
(Ord. 283, passed 3-7-1957)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry on or conduct the
business, trade, occupation, or profession of labor organize and promoter, as
defined in §
112.01 and classified within the city without a license authorizing the same,
which license shall be issued in the manner and under the conditions enumerated
pursuant to this subchapter and in full force and effect at the time.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry on or conduct the
business, trade, occupation, or profession of labor solicitor, as defined in §
112.01 and classified within the city, without a license authorizing the same,
which license shall be issued in the manner and under the conditions enumerated
pursuant to this subchapter and in full force and effect at the time.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any labor organization, as defined in §
112.01, to carry on or conduct in any manner whatsoever within the city the
business trade, occupation, or profession of labor organizer and promoter, as
defined in §
112.01 or labor solicitor, as defined in §
112.01, by or through any official agent or employees, who receives pecuniary
compensation for his or her services as such labor organizer and promoter or
labor solicitor, and who does not at the time have a license authorizing the
same, which license shall be issued in the manner and under the conditions
enumerated pursuant to this subchapter and in full force and effect at the
time.
(Ord. 283, passed 3-7-1957) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   No license shall be issued until an application shall have been
filed therefor. Each application for license hereunder to carry on or conduct
the business, trade, occupation, or profession either of labor organizer and
promoter, as defined in §
112.01, or of labor solicitor, as defined in §
112.01, within the city shall be in writing and shall be filed with the City
Clerk, and shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Name, age, permanent address, local address, and place of birth
of the applicant;
         (b)   Whether the applicant is a citizen of the United States;
         (c)   Whether he or she is an official, agent, or employee of any
labor organization and, if so, the name and address of such organization.
         (d)   Name and address of the agent of such labor organization within
the city on whom process may be served;
         (e)   How long the applicant acted in such capacity;
         (f)   Whether the applicant has even been convicted of any felony, if
so, what and where; and
         (g)   If the applicant has ever been convicted or has had the rights
of citizenship restored.
      (2)   The application shall be signed by the applicant, and the applicant
shall, within the county before some officer authorized to administer oaths,
state under oath that all the information given in the application is true. The
application shall contain such certification by such officer at the time it is
filed.
   (B)   The application hereinabove referred to shall be submitted by the City
Clerk, the Mayor, and City Council at the next meeting of the Council after the
date the application is filed, and if the application gives the information
required in division (A) above, the City Council shall, by order, at the same
meeting, direct the license applied for to be issued to the applicant for the
period set forth pursuant to this subchapter, and the City Clerk shall issue
the same immediately upon receipt of license fee stipulated pursuant to this
subchapter.
   (C)   Any license issued hereunder shall expire at 12:00 p.m., on July 16,
succeeding the date of its issue.
(Ord. 283, passed 3-7-1957)
§ 112.04 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The license fee for carrying on the business, trade, occupation, or
profession of labor organizer and promoter, as defined in §
112.01, shall be $50 for the period of time between the date of issuance of the
license and 12:00 p.m. on July 16, succeeding the date of its issue.
   (B)   The license fee for carrying on the business, trade, occupation, or
profession of labor solicitor, as defined in §
112.01, shall be $50 for the period of time between the date of issuance of the
license and 12:00 p.m. on July 16, succeeding the date of its issue.
   (C)   All sums received as fees for licenses issued hereunder shall be
placed in the City General Fund and used in payment of general operating
expenses of the city.
(Ord. 283, passed 3-7-1957)
§ 112.05 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license issued hereunder may be revoked by the Mayor and City Council
for the following reasons:
   (A)   False information submitted in the application of the licensee, or as
a part thereof; and
   (B)   Conviction of the licensee of a felony either within or without the
commonwealth.
(Ord. 283, passed 3-7-1957)
PICKETING
§ 112.20 DEFINITIONS AND CLASSIFICATIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LABOR DISPUTE. Any controversy concerning a lawful objective between an
employer and the majority of his or her employees in an appropriate bargaining
unit concerning wages, hours, or conditions of employment; provided, that if
any of the employees are members of or represented by a labor union, a
controversy between such employer and a majority of the employees belonging to
or represented by such union concerning wages, hours, or conditions of
employment, shall be deemed as to the employees who are members of or
represented by such union a LABOR DISPUTE within the meaning of this
subchapter.
   LABOR UNION. Any association group, union, national and local branch, or
subordinate organization or any union or working men or women, incorporated or
unincorporated, organized and existing in part for the purpose of protecting
themselves and improving their working conditions, wages, or employment
relationships in any manner, and shall include the local, commonwealth,
national, and international affiliates of such organizations or unions.
   PICKET. Any person stationed at any premises involved in a labor dispute as
that term is defined above, by or acting on behalf of any organization for the
purpose of peacefully inducing anyone not to enter the premises involved, or
for peacefully apprising the public by signs, banners, or other means of the
existence of a labor dispute at or near the premises in question or to observe
the premises involved so as to ascertain who enters or patronizes the same.
(Ord. 284, passed 3-7-1957)
§ 112.21 EMPLOYEE’S RIGHT TO SELF-ORGANIZE.
   Each and every employee shall have the right to self-organization; to form,
join, or assist labor organizations; to bargain collectively through
representatives of their own choosing; and to engage in other concerted
activities for the purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or
protection, and shall also have the right to refrain from any or all of such
activities, but no person, labor union, or organization nor association of
labor or management or otherwise may use strength, force, or action, economic
or otherwise, which can have the effect, either directly or indirectly or tend
to interfere with, restrain, or coerce employees in their right to freedom of
self-organization and right of individual choice and election as set forth in
this subchapter.
(Ord. 284, passed 3-7-1957) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.22 INTERFERENCE WITH PICKETING.
    Nothing in this subchapter, except as specifically provided for pursuant to
this subchapter, shall be construed as either to interfere with, or impede or
diminish in any way the right to strike, or to affect the limitations or
qualifications on that right in respect to wages, hours, or other conditions of
employment when a labor dispute, as defined in §
112.20.
(Ord. 284, passed 3-7-1957)
§ 112.23 FORCE, COERCION, THREATS, AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person by force, violence, or coercion, or
threat of force or violence or insulting, threatening, or obscene language to
prevent or attempt to prevent any person from exercising his or her right to
engage in a labor dispute or picket during the course of a labor dispute, as
the terms are defined in §
112.20, or freely engaging in the exercise of his or her lawful right to work
or to enter upon the performance of an unlawful vocation or from freely
entering or leaving any premises.
(Ord. 284, passed 3-7-1957) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.24 MASS PICKETING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, singly or in concert with others,
to engage in picketing or any form of picketing activity that shall constitute
mass picketing as defined in division (B) below.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MASS PICKETING. Any form of picketing in which:
         (a)   There are more than two pickets at any time within either 50
feet of any entrance to the premises being picketed, or within 50 feet of any
other picket or pickets; or
         (b)    Pickets that constitute or form any character of obstacle to
the free ingress and egress from any entrance to any premises either by
obstructing the free ingress or egress by their persons or by the placing of
vehicles or other physical obstruction.
(Ord. 284, passed 3-7-1957)
§ 112.25 INTERFERENCE WITH BUSINESS TRANSACTIONS OR DELIVERIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to picket in an unlawful manner or
picket or induce others to picket the establishment supply or delivery vehicles
or customers of any person, firm, or corporation engaged in business, or to in
any manner interfere with any person or persons desiring to transact business
with any person, firm, or corporation engaged in business when no labor dispute
exists between such employer and his or her employees or their representatives.
(Ord. 284, passed 3-7-1957) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.26 LOITERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person singly or acting in concert with one or
more other persons to assemble at or near any place where a labor dispute
exists and by force or violence prevent or attempt to prevent any person from
engaging in any lawful vocation, or for any person acting either by himself or
herself or as a member of any group or organization, or acting in concert with
one or more other persons to promote, encourage, or aid any such unlawful
assemblage or to loiter about the scene of a labor dispute.
(Ord. 284, passed 3-7-1957) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.27 UNION LIMITATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for a labor union, its agents, members, or any
employees to engage in, or to induce or encourage the employees of any employer
to engage in a strike to picketing or a concerted refusal in the course of
their employment to use, manufacture, process, transport, or otherwise handle
or work on any goods, articles, materials, or commodities or to perform any
services, where an object of any strike, picketing, or concerted refusal is:
   (A)   Forcing or requiring any employer or self-employed person or any
person to join any labor or employer, organization, labor union, or any
employer or other person to cease using, selling, handling, transporting, or
otherwise dealing in the products of any other producer, processor, or
manufacturer, or to cease doing business with any other person;
   (B)   Forcing or requiring any employer to recognize or bargain with a
particular labor union as the representative of its employees if another labor
union has established that it represents a majority of employees in an
appropriate bargaining unit; or
   (C)   Forcing or requiring any employer to assign particular work to
employees in a particular labor organization or in a particular trade, craft,
or class unless such employer is failing to recognize a labor union, or an
organization which represents a majority of employees in an appropriate
bargaining unit.
(Ord. 284, passed 3-7-1957) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.28 INDUCEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful under this subchapter for any person to either engage
in picketing, or to induce others to engage in picketing, unless the person is
a bona fide employee of the employer actually concerned with the picketing.
(Ord. 284, passed 3-7-1957) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who carries on or conducts within the business,
trade, occupation, or profession of labor organizer and promoter, as defined in
§
112.01, without having obtained a license to do so, and which license shall at
the time be in full force and effect, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine of not less than $5, nor
more than $15. Each day during any part of which the business is carried on or
conducted with in the city without license, as set forth pursuant to §§
112.01 through
112.05, shall be a separate offense.
      (2)   Any person who carries on or conducts within the city the business,
trade, occupation, or profession of labor solicitor, as defined in §
112.01, without having obtained a license to do so, and which license shall at
the time be in full force and effect, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $5, nor
more than $15. Each day during any part of which the business is carried on or
conducted within the city without a license, shall be a separate offense.
      (3)   Any labor organization, as defined in §
112.01 that carries on or conducts within the city the business, trade,
occupation, or profession of labor organizer or promoter, as defined in §
112.01, or labor solicitor, and who does not, at the time have a license to
carry on the trade, business, occupation, or profession, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not
less than $5, nor more than $15. Each day during any part of which the business
is carried on or conducted within the city without a license, shall be a
separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
112.20 through
112.28, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $25, nor more than $10,
and each day during any part of which the picketing is unlawfully carried on or
conducted within the city, shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 283, passed 3-7-1957; Ord. 284, passed 3-7-1957)
CHAPTER 113: ADULT BUSINESSES
Section
   
113.01   Findings, declarations of public policy, and purpose
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Restrictions, requirements, and conditions
   
113.04   Licensing
   
113.05   Administration, suspension or revocation, or refusal to renew a
license
   
113.06   Effect and limitation
   
113.07   Submittal and application
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 FINDINGS, DECLARATIONS OF PUBLIC POLICY, AND PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds that certain sexually-explicit entertainment
activities which may become located near areas zoned for residential use,
schools, public parks, and similar open spaces that cater to use by family
groups and children, would adversely affect the visibility of such properties
and create a public nuisance that:
   (A)   The city and the U.S. government through development and neighborhood
enhancement projects over the past years have attempted to eliminate blight and
to further prevent deterioration of the city’s neighborhoods;
   (B)   Certain sexually-explicit entertainment, because of the conditions of
their operations, may contribute to an increased incidence of crime and
juvenile delinquency;
   (C)   Certain sexually-explicit entertainment facilities tend to attract
undesirable clientele that discourage neighborhood residents from undertaking
civic improvements and cause residents and businesses to move elsewhere and/or
may frustrate attempts to attract new residents and businesses to come into a
particular area, all of which factors in and contributes to a diminution of
property values and to a general deterioration of the city’s neighborhoods;
   (D)   The establishment of small closet-like rooms or booths at sexually-
explicit amusement facilities in the city may encourage persons to loiter for
illegitimate purposes and may encourage lewd conduct in public places, thereby
creating a public nuisance and a danger to health and safety;
   (E)   The concentration of sexually-explicit movies and books and sexual
paraphernalia in the city, and the establishment of businesses that house
sexually-explicit movies and hotel rooms which may be rented by the hour to
couples may afford appealing and visible meeting place to ply their trade; that
this may create public nuisance or may impose supermarkets of sex on otherwise
respectable city neighborhoods;
   (F)   The value of free expression in a free society can be protected by
affording an opportunity for products and services will be just as available to
the public wishing to pay for them, but with dramatically less deleterious
effect on abutting neighborhoods;
   (G)   The noise generated by patrons coming and going from sexually-explicit
entertainment activity establishments may cause a substantial disruption to
nearby residents, and a modest curtailment of the hours during which
entertainment is offered to patrons coming and going from such establishments
would afford some relief to persons residing nearby, without significantly
interfering with the availability of the offered entertainment therein;
   (H)   Sexually-explicit entertainment establishments which may have
integrated several forms of sexually-explicit entertainment in one business
premise have had a greater blighting effect on surrounding land uses than have
establishments which engage in only one form of sexually-explicit
entertainment; that the regulation of escort services providing sexually-
explicit services will deter prostitution and public indecency and will secure
the public health and safety of the city;
   (I)   Nationally there is extensive involvement of organized crime in the
business of sexually-explicit entertainment activities which is regulated
pursuant to this chapter; and
   (J)   The disclosure of the names of persons who own, as well as the names
of the persons who operate such sexually-explicit bookstores and other
sexually-explicit entertainment establishments would aid law enforcement
officials in the enforcement of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations Act (RICO), being 18 U.S.C. §§ 1961 et seq., as well as the
enforcement of the laws of the commonwealth prohibiting the distribution of
obscene matter; use of minors to distribute obscene matter, advertising of
obscene matter, distribution of obscene matter to minors; promoting sale of
obscenity; the use of a minor in a sexual performance; the distribution of
portrayal of sexual performance by a minor; promotion of material portraying a
sexual performance by a minor; the advertising of material portraying a sexual
performance by a minor; and the use of a minor to distribute material
portraying a sexual performance by a minor.
(Ord. 685-01, passed - -)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIRECTOR. The Chief Financial Officer of the City of Scottsville or his or
her designee.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person hired by or suffered or permitted to work in an
establishment engaging in sexually-explicit entertainment activities whether
that person received remuneration or compensation directly from the operator or
owner of the establishment, from patrons of the establishment, or from any
other source, whether by contract of employment or otherwise.
   ESTABLISHMENT. A business entity or endeavor, fixed, mobile, or traveling,
including its owners, operators, directors, shareholders, partners, employees,
and possession.
   LICENSEE. A person who is the holder of a valid license under this chapter,
also including an agent, servant, or employee of, or other person acting on
behalf of a LICENSEE whenever a LICENSEE is prohibited from doing a certain act
under this chapter.
   OPERATOR. Any individual, partnership, corporation, or business entity with
all such individuals, partners, shareholders, officers, and directors over the
age of 18 who establishes or maintains a business as its owner or manager, and
shall also mean LICENSEE as defined in this chapter.
   OWNER. Any individual, partnership, corporation, or business entity who has
legal title to real estate, with or without accompanying actual possession
thereof, or has all or part of the beneficial ownership of any real estate and
a right to present use and enjoyment thereof, including a mortgagee in
possession.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, or business entity.
   PRINCIPAL USE.
      (1)   A substantial or significant use.
      (2)   Any of the following criteria shall constitute evidence that an
establishment is engaging in sexually-explicit entertainment activity as a
PRINCIPAL USE:
         (a)   Contains more than 15% of its stock in trade in material
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis in sexual activity;
         (b)   Devotes more than 15% of its floor space which is open to either
the public generally or to members of the public other than minors for the
display of material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on sexual
activities;
         (c)   Has more than a total of 200 square feet provided for the
display, storage, or sale of material distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on sexual activities; or
         (d)   Advertises in a manner visible from the outside of the business
premises the availability of material or entertainment distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on sexual activities.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Depiction of human genitals in a state of sexual
stimulation, acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, or sodomy, holding
or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, or breasts.
   SEXUALLY-EXPLICIT ENTERTAINMENT ACTIVITY OR ACTIVITIES or SEXUALLY- EXPLICIT
ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. One or more of the following activities.
      (1)   CABARET. An establishment which features, as a principal use of its
business, entertainers, waiters, bartenders, male or female impersonators, or
persons, either male or female, who expose to public view of the patrons of the
establishment at any time the bare female breast below a point immediately
above the top of the areola, human genitals, pubic region, or buttocks, even if
partially or completely covered by translucent material, or human or simulated
male genitals in a discernible turgid state.
      (2)   COMMERCIAL SEXUAL ENTERTAINMENT CENTER. Any commercial
establishment not otherwise described in this section which makes available
material, services, or entertainment appealing to sexual interests, including,
but not limited to, a bath house, swingers’ club, or similar establishment if
the establishment or its entertainment, services, or goods are advertised by or
on behalf of the establishment in a manner patently designed to appeal to such
adult sexual interests.
      (3)   MASSAGE PARLOR. An establishment for treating the human body by
rubbing, stroking, kneading, tapping, or similar treatment with the hand which
promotes its services in a manner designed to appeal to the patron’s sexual
interest.
      (4)   SELF-DESIGNATED SEXUALLY-EXPLICIT ENTERTAINMENT CENTER. Any
establishment which designates all or a portion of its premises as for adults
only, or has a policy of excluding minors from its premises or from a portion
of its premises and which makes available services, entertainment, or goods at
the premises or at the portion of the premises designated for adults only which
are characterized or distinguished by depictions of sexual activities as
defined in this chapter.
      (5)   SEXUALLY-EXPLICIT AMUSEMENT ARCADE. An establishment having as one
of its principal uses one or more of the following: customer-operated motion
picture devices; peep shows; viewing areas, or similar devices either coin,
token, or slug operated; or which, in consideration of an entrance fee, display
material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depictions of sexual
activities, as defined in this section, or which offer male or female persons
who expose to view of the customer the bare female breast below a point
immediately above the top of the areola, human genitals, pubic region, or
buttocks, even in partially or completely covered by translucent material, or
human or simulated male genitals in a discernible turgid state even if
completely or opaquely covered.
      (6)   SEXUALLY-EXPLICIT BOOKSTORE. An establishment having as one of its
principal uses the sale, rent, or display of pictures, books, periodicals,
magazines, appliances, and similar material which are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis on depictions of sexual activities as defined
in this section or an establishment with a substantial segment or section
devoted to the sale, rental, or display of such material.
      (7)   SEXUALLY-EXPLICIT ENTERTAINMENT PROVIDER. A commercial
establishment, such as a hotel or motel, which in addition to providing as the
major part of its business services unrelated to depictions of sexual
activities as defined in this section, makes entertainment, either live or on
film or video tape, available to its customers, which entertainment has as a
dominant theme or is characterized or distinguished by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing, or relating to sexual activities, if such establishment
advertises the availability of such sexually-explicit entertainment at this
establishment. The advertisement of such materials shall not include the
position of a card or handbill on or near a television set in a hotel or motel
room advising room guests that such sexually-explicit movies are available upon
request of the guest or advertising informing the public of the availability of
commercial cable channels.
      (8)   SEXUALLY-EXPLICIT ESCORT or ESCORT SERVICE. A person or business
which is held out to the public to be available for hire and which for monetary
consideration agrees to consort with or accompany another or others to or about
social affairs, entertainments, or places of amusement or within any place of
public resort or within any private quarters and advertises, communicates, or
offers that sexually-explicit entertainment activity will be provided.
      (9)   SEXUALLY-EXPLICIT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An establishment having
or advertising as having as one of its principal uses the presentation of
motion picture, slide projections, and other similar material having as a
dominant theme or characterized or distinguished by an emphasis on mailer
depicting, describing, or relating to sexual activities for observation by
persons therein.
      (10)   SEXUALLY-EXPLICIT STAGE SHOW THEATER. An establishment having as
one of its principal uses the presentation of live performances of humans or
animals having as a dominant theme or characterized or distinguished by an
emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to sexual activities, as
defined in this chapter, for observation by persons therein.
      (11)   SEXUALLY-EXPLICIT VIDEO CASSETTE CENTER. A commercial
establishment which has as one of its principal uses the rental or retail sale
of video cassettes which depict material distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on or depictions of sexual activities, as defined in this chapter, and
which does not provide an on-premises showing of such materials.
      (12)   TAXI DANCE HALL. An establishment operated as a public dance hall
where dance partners, either male or female, are available for hire for a
monetary consideration payable either by the dance or as part of an entrance
fee or membership fee.
(Ord. 685-01, passed - -)
§ 113.03 RESTRICTIONS, REQUIREMENTS, AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   An establishment engaging in a sexually-explicit entertainment
activity, except as otherwise provided by laws which may be more restrictive,
may not have more than one outside flush to the wall, facial style sign, not to
exceed in size ten feet in length (horizontal to the ground) and three feet in
width (vertical to the ground) with no flashing lights and with no lettering,
wording, or pictorial or representational matter which is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on depictions of sexual activities as defined in §
113.02.
   (B)   An establishment engaging in a sexually-explicit entertainment may not
display its stock in trade or matter depicting, describing, or relating to
sexual activities in such manner as to be subject to public view from outside
the establishment, including, but not limited to, view from public sidewalks,
streets, arcades, hallways, or passageways.
   (C)   An operator of an establishment engaging in a sexually-explicit
entertainment activity or a sexually-explicit escort service or his or her
employee shall not permit a person under 18 years of age to be employed by or
to enter his or her establishment or to be a patron of such service; provided,
however, that a licensed sexually-explicit entertainment establishment which
devotes only a portion of its business premises to sexually-explicit
entertainment or material may permit the public, generally including minors, to
enter the portions of the premises within which no sexually-explicit
entertainment or material is visible or on display. This chapter shall not be
construed to be an exemption from or in conflict with any requirement found in
any statute, ordinance, regulation, or other provision of law applicable to a
licensee or potential licensee hereunder which is more stringent in terms of an
age requirement for employees.
   (D)   An operator engaging in a sexually-explicit entertainment activity
shall, at all times, cause the entrance of his or her establishment to be so
attended as to ensure compliance with the requirements contained in division
(C) above.
   (E)   An establishment licensed to engage in sexually-explicit entertainment
shall not provide such entertainment between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00
a.m.
   (F)   A sexually-explicit amusement arcade, except as otherwise provided by
laws which may be more restrictive, shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   Any wall or partition which is situated so as to create a viewing
area in which any amusement device or viewing screen is located, shall be
constructed of not less than one-hour fire-restrictive material and shall
contain no hole or other perforation.
      (2)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually-explicit
amusement arcade which exhibits on the premises in a viewing room of less than
150 square feet of floor space, a film, video cassette, or other video
reproduction which depicts sexual activities, as defined in §
113.02, shall comply with the following requirements.
         (a)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a
manner that there shall be an unobstructed view from a manager’s or cashier’s
station of every area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access
for any purpose excluding restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video
reproduction equipment. The view required in this division (F)(2)(a) must be by
direct line of sight from the manager’s or cashier’s station.
         (b)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operators, and it shall
also be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises to ensure
that the view area specified in division (F)(2)(a) above remains unobstructed
by any doors, walls, merchandise, display racks, or other materials at all
times.
         (c)   No viewing room maybe occupied by more than one person at a
time.
      (3)   There shall be no fewer than two doorways, each of a width no less
than 36 inches, which provide ingress or egress from any room in which an
amusement devised or viewing area is located; provided, however, that one
doorway shall be sufficient in the event the Chief of the Division of Fire or
his or her designee should so determine. The doorway or doorways shall be
unlocked during business hours.
      (4)   Over every doorway which provides egress from any room in which an
amusement device or viewing area is located, there shall be maintained an
internally illuminated exit sign with letters at least five inches in height.
      (5)   A light level of no less than ten-foot candles at floor level shall
be maintained in every portion of the establishment to which the public is
admitted.
      (6)   All persons regulated pursuant to this section must comply with the
terms and conditions of this division (F) within 60 days after the effective
date of this chapter.
   (G)   The public entrance to a sexually-explicit entertainment establishment
shall not be located nearer than 750 feet from any church, synagogue, or other
permanent place of worship; licensed day care center; public or private
elementary, middle, or secondary school; institution of higher learning; or
business college; or any park, mall, or park-like area of open space under the
control of a governmental agency. Such distance shall be measured along a
straight line from the nearest property line of the real estate on which that
building or public park-like area is located to the entrance to such
establishment engaging in a sexually-explicit entertainment activity.
   (H)   The public entrance to a sexually-explicit entertainment establishment
shall hot be located nearer than 750 feet from any area zoned residential. Such
distance shall be measured along a straight line from the boundary line of the
nearest area zoned for residential purposes to the entrance to such
establishment engaging in a sexually-explicit entertainment activity.
   (I)   The public entrance to a sexually-explicit entertainment establishment
shall not be located nearer than 500 feet from the public entrance of another
sexually-explicit entertainment activity establishment. Such distance shall be
measured in a straight line from the nearest entrance to a building containing
an existing sexually-explicit entertainment establishment to the entrance or
proposed entrance to the building containing the proposed new sexually-explicit
entertainment establishment.
   (J)   Notwithstanding divisions (G) through (I) above to the contrary, any
person who has been issued a sexually-explicit entertainment license which is
in effect as of the effective date of this chapter, and any person who is
lawfully engaged in an sexually-explicit entertainment activity defined under §
113.02 who obtains a license therefor within the time required by §
113.04(G), may continue to engage in the sexually-explicit entertainment
activity in which such person is lawfully engaged as of the effective date of
this chapter as a nonconforming use subject to the limitations of KRS 100.253
and such other restrictions on nonconforming uses as are provided by law.
   (K)   No adult entertainer, dancer, or escort shall be permitted to have any
physical contact with any other adult entertainer; dancer, escort, employee,
patron, or spectator while that adult entertainer, escort, or dancer is
performing.
   (L)   No alcoholic beverages shall be present, stored, or consumed on any
premises licensed for adult entertainment.
(Ord. 685-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 LICENSING.
   (A)   (1)   The owner or operator of an establishment intending to engage,
or engaging under a previously issued license in a sexually-explicit
entertainment activity, or the owner or operator of a sexually-explicit escort
or escort service, shall make application for a license with the Director in
accordance with this section. A separate license is required for each separate
or assumed name under which an owner or operator conducts business. A $200
investigation fee must accompany all applications.
      (2)   Such application shall be in writing, under oath, and shall be in
the form prescribed by the Director and shall contain the following information
together with such further information as the Director may require:
         (a)   The name and location of the establishment and the name and
business address of the applicant;
         (b)   The name, address, date of birth, and Social Security number of
a natural person with an ownership interest in the licensee, such natural
person to be determined as follows.
            1.   If the licensee is one or more natural person, then all such
natural persons shall comply, or any one natural person may comply for the
licensee upon certification that he or she owns a greater share of the licensee
than any other person.
            2.   If the licensee is a partnership, then the natural person
designated as the managing general partner in the partnership agreement, a copy
of which is to be attached to the license application, shall comply, but if the
partnership agreement designates no natural person as a managing general
person, then the natural person who by virtue of his or her interest or holding
in the partnerships or corporations which have formed the partnership owns a
greater share of the licensee than any other single natural person shall
comply.
            3.   If the licensee is a corporation, the natural person, if any,
who owns a greater number of shares than any other person shall comply, but if
the person owning the greatest number of shares is not a natural person, then
the natural person who by virtue of his or her interests or holdings in one or
more partnerships or other corporations which own share in the licensee owns a
greater portion of the share in the licensee than any other individual natural
person shall comply.
         (c)   The name and address of all directors and officers of any
licensee or applicant which is a corporation and the name and address of the
licensee’s designated agent for service of process;
         (d)   In the event the applicant or licensee is not the owner of
record of the real property on which the licensed establishment is located or
to be located, the application shall include a notarized statement from the
owner of record of the real property acknowledging that a sexually-explicit
entertainment establishment is to be located on the real property upon the
issuance of the license. The applicant also shall furnish the name and address
of the owner of record of the real property and a copy of the lease or rental
agreement;
         (e)   The name, address, date of birth, and Social Security number of
all persons engaged in the day-to-day employment or contract labor on the
license premises. If the licensee is to engage in the sale, rental, or showing
of books or movies distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting or relating to sexual activities as defined in §
113.02, then all persons designated to engage in the selections of such books
and movies to be offered for sale or rental or to be shown on the licensed
premises, shall be subject to the provisions of this division (A)(2)(e). All
persons who at any time shall be responsible for attending the entrance of the
establishment for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the provisions of §
113.03(C), shall be subject to the provisions of this division (A)(2)(e);
         (f)   The name, address, date of birth, and Social Security number of
the individual designated by the applicant to undertake to keep the applicant,
if licensed, at all times in compliance with the restrictions, requirements,
and conditions of this chapter and with the rules and regulations promulgated
by the Director pursuant to §
113.05, together with the sworn affidavit of that individual stating that he or
she has received a copy of this chapter, and that he or she wilfully undertakes
on behalf of the applicant to comply therewith;
         (g)   The name, address, date of birth, and Social Security number of
the individual designated by the applicant or licensee to be responsible for
keeping the information required hereunder current at all times together with a
sworn affidavit of that individual stating that he or she has received a copy
of this chapter, that he or she understands the requirements hereof pertaining
to disclosure of information, and that he or she willfully undertakes on behalf
of the applicant to comply therewith;
         (h)   The name and addresses of any rental agent of the property on
which the establishment is located;
         (i)   The nature of the activity or activities to be engaged in at
such location;
         (j)   All criminal convictions of any offense set forth in KRS Ch. 528
(gambling), KRS Ch. 529 (prostitution), KRS 506.030 (if such solicitation
pertains to an offense of solicitation of prostitution under KRS 529), KRS Ch.
510 (sexual offenses), KRS Ch. 531 (pornography), or any similar law of the
United States or sister states of the commonwealth within the last five years
of the applicants, owners, directors, partners, or employees whose names are
required pursuant to this division (A). Any such person who is on parole for
any of the offenses set forth above shall submit to the Director the terms of
such parole;
         (k)   The name and address of any person to whom the applicant wants
mail notice to be given in case of violation or other matters affecting the
license hereunder;
         (l)   A photograph or drawing of any signs displayed or proposed to be
displayed on the exterior of the establishment and a statement of the
dimensions of such signs;
         (m)   Proof of compliance with the occupational license fee laws of
the city;
         (n)   A certificate of occupancy where required and, in all other
cases, a letter of compliance issued by the Director or his or her designee of
City/County Planning and Zoning Commission certifying that the business is in
compliance with applicable zoning laws or has nonconforming use rights, and
that the proposed use will not constitute an enlargement or expansion of the
scope of such nonconforming rights;
         (o)   A certificate from the Chief of the Division of Fire or his or
her designee that all applicable fire regulations have been met, and in the
case of a sexually-explicit amusement arcade, that all requirements of §
113.03(F) have been met;
         (p)   A statement from the Chief Building Inspector or his or her
designee that the premises comply with applicable provisions of the Uniform
Commonwealth Building Code, being 815 KAR 7:120, as adopted by the city;
         (q)   A statement from the District Health Department Director or his
or her designee that the premises are adequately ventilated and contain public
restrooms, which satisfy the requirements of 902 KAR 10:010. The District
Health Department Director or his or her designee shall cause the premises of
each licensee to be inspected annually to determine continued compliance with
the provisions of this section;
         (r)   If the application is for a sexually-explicit escort service,
the application must also include:
            1.   The hours that the escort service will be open to the public,
including the hours any escorts are with a patron;
            2.   The methods of promoting the health and safety of escorts and
protecting them from assault, battery, and rape;
            3.   The methods of supervising the escorts to prevent the escort
from charging the patron any fee in addition to the fee paid to the escort
service by the patron;
            4.   The methods of supervising the escorts to prevent the escort
from soliciting acts of prostitution or offering to provide sexual stimulation
or sexual gratification; and
            5.   The method of compensating the escorts.
   (B)   (1)   The information required by division (A) above shall be at all
times current even after the granting of a license by the Director. It shall be
the responsibility of the operator or other person designated in the license
application to notify the Director no later than the close of the first
business day of the Director after the effective date of any changes,
alterations, or modifications in any information contained in the application
including, but not limited to: name of the establishment; any change in the
corporate information required for the application; names and addresses of
employees; names and addresses of the owners of the property on which the
establishment is located; name and address of designated agent for service of
process; nature of the activity or activities to be engaged in at the
establishment; and the name and address of any person the applicant wants mail
notice to be given in case of violation or other matters affecting the license.
      (2)   In addition, each sexually-explicit escort service licensed
pursuant to this chapter shall keep a current list of all escorts providing
service to it. This list must contain the name, address, and work permit card
information for each escort and shall be available upon request to the
Director, his or her designee, and any law enforcement officer.
   (C)   (1)   The Director will cause the premises to be inspected after such
application has been received and all application requirements of division (A)
above are in compliance. The Director shall then issue a license forthwith if
all restrictions, requirements, conditions, and all applicable requirements of
this chapter and other applicable laws have been met, except that no license
will be issued if the applicant or any owner, operator, director, partner,
shareholder, or employee has been convicted of any offense set forth in KRS Ch.
528 (gambling), KRS Ch. 529 (prostitution), KRS 506.030 (if such solicitation
pertains to an offense of solicitation of prostitution under KRS 529), KRS Ch.
510 (sexual offenses), KRS Ch. 531 (pornography), or any similar law of the
United States or sister states of the commonwealth within the last five years;
provided, however, the granting of a license does not certify compliance with
all applicable laws nor does it stop the city from enforcement of all
applicable law or ordinances.
      (2)   If inspection reveals failure to comply with any restrictions,
requirements, or conditions pursuant to this division (C), the Director shall
notify the applicant in writing of that fact, stating what failures have been
discovered, allowing a reasonable time to correct such defects, and informing
the applicant of the appeal procedure if the applicant does not agree with the
Director’s decision.
   (D)   Any license granted according to this section shall at all times be
conspicuously posted and displayed in a public area so as to be open to view of
the patrons and proper public authorities.
   (E)   Application for or granting of a license according to this section is
deemed to permit periodic inspections of any establishment required to have a
license under this chapter by the Director or his or her designee or any city
law enforcement officer for the purpose of verifying compliance with the terms
and conditions of this chapter.
   (F)   Thirty days after the effective date of this chapter, no operator
shall maintain, operate, or conduct an establishment engaging in sexually-
explicit entertainment activities, defined under §
113.02, and thereafter no operator shall own, operate, or be employed at an
establishment engaging in sexually- explicit entertainment activities which
have sought and been denied a license according to this section, and unless all
dancers, performers, and entertainers appearing at the establishment and
escorts have obtained the work permit card required by division (J) below.
   (G)   No owner shall permit sexually-explicit entertainment activities to be
conducted on his or her property unless and until such is properly licensed
according to this section, except as permitted under division (F) above.
   (H)   No person shall permit himself or herself to be an operator or an
employee at a sexually-explicit entertainment activity or sexually-explicit
escort or escort service which has not been validly licensed according to this
section, except as permitted under division (G) above.
   (I)   (1)   All licenses shall be for the fiscal year, July 1 to June 30, or
the remaining portion of such fiscal year. The annual license fee, other than
for sexually-explicit escort services, shall be $2,500 and shall be pro-rated
at the rate of $200 per month. The annual license fee for sexually-explicit
escort services shall be $5,000 and shall be pro-rated at the rate of $400 per
month. All license fees shall be remitted to the City Treasurer.
      (2)   Application for renewal of a license shall be made on or before
June 30 of each year and accompanied by the annual fee along with any
occupational license fee required by this code of ordinances. Such application
shall also contain any changes in the information required by division (A)
above which have occurred since the previous application.
   (J)   (1)   Any person intending to be employed or to work in any capacity
at a sexually-explicit entertainment establishment or sexually-explicit escort
service shall, prior to engaging in the same, make application for a work
permit card with the Director in accordance with this section.
      (2)   Such application shall be in writing, under oath, and shall be in
the form prescribed by the Director and shall include:
         (a)   The legal name of the applicant, any and all names used by the
applicant in the course of performance of his or her duties as a dancer,
performer, or entertainer;
         (b)   The applicant’s residence address, the applicant’s date of
birth, the applicant’s Social Security number; and
         (c)   A recent photograph of the applicant and the applicant’s
fingerprints.
      (3)   The applicant shall submit with his or her application a one-time
fee of $100. The Director shall grant the applicant the work permit card
promptly after receiving a report from the Division of Police that the
applicant has not been convicted in the past five years of an offense set forth
in KRS Ch. 529 (prostitution), pandering, or under KRS Ch. 510 (sexual
offenses), or of trafficking in a controlled substance or any similar law of
the United States or sister states of the commonwealth.
      (4)   (a)   The work permit card so granted shall remain valid unless the
Director is informed that the applicant has been convicted in the past five
years of an offense set forth in KRS Ch. 529 (prostitution), or an offense set
forth in KRS Ch. 510 (sexual offenses), or pandering or of trafficking in a
controlled substance or any similar law of the United States or sister states
of the commonwealth.
         (b)   A work permit card shall be replaced if lost or stolen for a fee
of $50. After the effective date of this chapter, no dancer, performer, or
entertainer shall dance, perform, or otherwise be occupied in the providing of
entertainment at a sexually-explicit entertainment establishment or sexually-
explicit escort service without having obtained the work permit card required
by this chapter.
         (c)   The work permit card must be carried in the possession of the
person at all times the person is working or employed on behalf of the
sexually-explicit entertainment establishment or sexually- explicit escort
service. A separate work permit card is required in each name under which the
person will provide sexually-explicit entertainment or sexually-explicit escort
services.
(Ord. 685-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05 ADMINISTRATION, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION, OR REFUSAL TO RENEW A
LICENSE.
   (A)   The Director may refuse to issue, renew, or may revoke or suspend any
license or work permit card granted under this chapter at any time if the
Director finds that a licensee or applicant:
      (1)    Has failed to comply with the restrictions, requirements, and
conditions of this chapter or with such material regulations as may be enacted
by the Director pursuant to this chapter;
      (2)   Has knowingly provided false information to gain or to maintain a
license or work permit card or has willfully failed to keep the information
required under §
113.03 current; and
      (3)   Has engaged in a consistent pattern of conduct which has resulted
in the licensed premises being used for or the site of illegal activities,
whether under this chapter, state, or federal law, or by the licensee or its
agents, employees, or patrons.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   If the Director finds that a licensee or applicant has
violated any of the provisions of division (A) above, he or she or his or her
designee may request the licensee or applicant orally or through a warning
letter to take corrective action; he or she or his or her designee may request
the licensee or applicant to meet informally with him or her or his or her
designee; or he or she or his or her designee may require the licensee or
applicant to appear before him or her at a hearing and show cause why
disciplinary action should not be taken.
         (b)   At any point, the licensee or applicant may request that a
hearing be held.
      (2)   At any hearing under division (A) above, the Director shall
consider all relevant factors including:
         (a)   The willfulness of the licensee’s or applicant’s failure to
comply with the applicable restrictions, requirements, and conditions and the
willfulness of the failure of the individual designated on the licensee’s
application to undertake such compliance;
         (b)   The extent to which such failure to comply has been repeated by
the licenses or applicant or by the individual designated on the licensee’s
application to undertake such compliance;
         (c)   Any mitigating circumstances which the licensee or applicant has
shown has made compliance impracticable or impossible;
         (d)   Whether the licensee or applicant has remedied the failure to
comply prior to the hearing;
         (e)   The willfulness of the failure of the owner or operator or the
person designated on the licensee’s application to undertake compliance with
disclosure of current information required hereunder;
         (f)   The extent to which such failure to disclose information
required to be kept current hereunder has been repeated;
         (g)   The length of time such disclosure requirements have been out of
compliance;
         (h)   The number of violations;
         (i)   The number and frequency of the incidents of the illegal
conduct;
         (j)   Whether the licensee or its agents or employees are found to
have had knowledge of the illegal conduct;
         (k)   Whether the licensee or its agents or employees, by the manner
in which the licensee’s business is conducted, are found to have permitted or
encouraged such illegal conduct; and
         (l)   The degree to which the licensee’s business is found to have
permitted or encouraged such illegal conduct.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   When the Director determines or is requested to hold a
hearing pursuant to this division (C), he or she shall serve written notices of
the hearing and of the specific matter or charges to be determined.
         (b)   That notice shall be served upon the licensee or applicant at
the address listed for the licensee or applicant in the application at least 20
days in advance of the hearing.
      (2)   Service of notice shall be deemed complete upon certified mailing,
return receipt requested or personal delivery. At the hearing, the Director
shall afford the licensee or applicant an opportunity to be represented by an
attorney, to present evidence, to cross-examine adverse witnesses, and
otherwise to rebut the evidence presented against the licensee or applicant.
Within 20 days after the hearing and based on evidence received at the hearing,
the Director shall issue his or her findings and shall determine the sanction,
if any, to be imposed on the licensee or applicant or upon the owner of the
licensed premises, which may include suspension of the licensee’s license or
work permit card for a period not to exceed one year, revocation of the
licensee’s license, or work permit card or refusal to issue a license or work
permit card.
      (3)   If the Director suspends a license or work permit card, the
Director may, at his or her option, allow the owner or licensee or permit card
holder to pay in lieu of part or all of the days suspended the sum up to $50
per day. If the licensee’s license is suspended or the application refused, all
persons listed on the application, whether as a partner, director, officer,
owner, part owner or operator, or managing partner may also be suspended from
participating in sexually-explicit entertainment activities for a period not to
exceed five years if the Director finds that such persons knew or reasonably
should have known of the violation for which the license is suspended or
refused and failed to take steps promptly to cure the violation.
      (4)   The findings and rulings of any hearing before the Director shall
be a final determination of the issues raised unless appealed to the
Administrative Appeals Board. Any such appeal must be made within 20 days of
the Director’s findings. The Administrative Appeals Board may hear the matter
de novo or may limit both parties to oral arguments based on the record before
the Director. The Administrative Appeals Board shall conduct its hearing within
20 days of receipt of the notice of appeal and shall make its findings within
20 days of the hearing or receipt of all necessary information by the Board.
Any decision of the Administrative Appeals Board may be appealed to a court of
competent jurisdiction, but shall be enforced during the pendency of any such
appeal unless otherwise ordered by the court.
   (E)   (1)   The Director is empowered to enact from time to time whatever
rules and regulations are deemed necessary for the orderly and complete
administration of this chapter at such times, in the discretion of the
Director, as the need arises for such rules and regulations.
      (2)   All regulations shall be submitted to the Mayor and shall become
effective within 30 days of submission unless disapproved by the Mayor prior to
that date and upon notice to all licensees and persons with license application
pending.
(Ord. 685-01, passed - -)
§ 113.06 EFFECT AND LIMITATION.
   It is not the purpose of this chapter to establish community standards on
obscenity, nor to permit persons to engage in any activity which is in
violation of law, including, but not limited to, commonwealth laws pertaining
to the advertising, promotion, distribution, or sale of obscene matter or
matters portraying a sexual performance by a minor; or commonwealth laws
pertaining to use of a minor in a sexual performance or promotion of asexual
performance by a minor or the use of a minor to distribute material portraying
sexual performance by a minor.
(Ord. 685-01, passed - -)
§ 113.07 SUBMITTAL AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   An applicant licensee shall sign and submit a consent providing
that the Director, his or her designee, or any law enforcement officer may
inspect the public areas of the licensed premises at any reasonable time with
immediate entry, may confiscate articles found on the premises in violation of
any ordinance or statute, and the Director may order an emergency temporary
closure of the premises if the public health, safety, morals, and welfare is
threatened by multiple violations of any ordinance or statute involving
disturbance of the peace or public disorder reported to the Director by the
Chief of Police during the course of one day’s operation of the premises.
      (2)   The temporary closure shall remain in effect until review of the
alleged violations by the Director within 36 hours. Nothing in this division
(A)(2) shall prevent regulators, agencies, including, but not limited to,
building inspectors, health inspectors, and OSHA inspectors, from conducting
unannounced routine inspections of all of the licensed premises to ensure
compliance with all applicable codes, statutes, and ordinances.
   (B)   The Director, or any agent or employee designated by him or her in
writing, may examine the books, papers, and records of any applicant licensee
as he or she may deem reasonably necessary for purposes incident to the
performance of his or her duties hereunder.
(Ord. 685-01, passed - -)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and for the
first offense, be fined not less than $100 and not more than $200, or be
imprisoned in the County Jail for not more than six months, or both; and for
the second and each subsequent violation, shall be fined not less than $200 or
more than $500, or be imprisoned in the County Jail for not more than 12
months, or both. If the person who violates any provision of this chapter is a
corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint stock company,
association, or fiduciary, then the President and/or the principal officers,
members, or partners responsible for such violations may be punished by
imprisonment as authorized by this section.
   (B)   Upon any conviction of any person for the violation of any offense in
this chapter, all property held in violation of this chapter, and any personal
property, including, but not limited to, books, video tape, films, and other
property used in the commission or furtherance of an offense under this chapter
shall be forfeited as provided in KRS 500.090 by court order and sold,
destroyed, or otherwise disposed of in accordance with KRS 500.090.
(Ord. 685-01, passed - -)
CHAPTER 114: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL
Section
   
114.01   General provisions
   
114.02   License requirements
   
114.03   City Alcoholic Beverage Administrator
   
114.04   Application and maintenance of license
   
114.05   Hours of sale
   
114.06   Conditions, prohibitions and restrictions
   
114.07   Minors
   
114.08   Consumption on premises prohibited
   
114.09   Enforcement
   
114.10   Mandatory responsible beverage service training
   
114.11   Signs and advertising
   
114.12   Sidewalk café permit
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known as the “Alcoholic Beverage Control
Ordinance” of the City of Scottsville, Kentucky (hereinafter referred to as the
“city”).
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish uniform regulations and
requirements for the licensing and regulation of alcoholic beverage manufacture
and sales pursuant to authorization under KRS Ch. 241 through 244.
   (C)   The definitions of the words used throughout this chapter, unless the
context requires otherwise, shall have the same meaning as those set out in the
alcoholic beverage control laws (KRS Ch. 241 through 244) of the Commonwealth
of Kentucky and all amendments and supplements thereto.
   (D)   This chapter shall be construed to apply to the manufacture and
traffic in both malt beverages and distilled spirits and wine where the context
permits such application. Nothing in this chapter shall excuse or relieve the
licensee, or the owner, proprietor, employee, agent, or person in charge of any
licensed premises where alcoholic beverages are sold from the restrictions,
requirements and penalties
of any other ordinance of the city, or of any statues of the state relating to
violations pertaining to alcoholic beverages.
   (E)   The provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Law of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky (KRS
Ch. 241 through 244) and all amendments and supplements thereto, are adopted so
far as applicable to this chapter except as otherwise lawfully provided herein.
(Ord. 873-23, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 114.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   City licenses. For the privilege of causing, permitting, and engaging
in the actions, business, and transactions authorized thereby in regard to
traffic in alcoholic beverages in the city and pursuant to the authority of KRS
243.070, there is hereby established a corresponding city license for each of
the city licenses described in KRS 243.070. The fee for each city license shall
be as set out in the schedule set forth below. In the event KRS 243.070 shall
hereafter be amended to authorize additional city licenses, the city shall have
authority to issue that additional city license type and the fee for such
license shall be the maximum fee provided in KRS 243.070 as amended
Distiller’s license, per annum                               $500
Rectifier’s license                                           
   Class A, per annum                                       $3,000
   Class B (craft rectifier), per annum                     $960
Wholesaler’s license, per annum                              $3,000
Quota retail package license, per annum                        $1,000
Quota retail drink license, per annum                          $1,000
Non-quota type 1 retail drink license, per annum               $2,000
Non-quota type 2 retail drink license, per annum               $1,000
Non-quota type 3 retail drink license, per annum               $300
Special temporary license, per event                           $166
Special temporary alcohol auction license, per event           $100
Special Sunday retail drink license, per annum                 $300
Extended hours supplement license, per annum                   $2,000
Caterer’s license, per annum                                 $800
Bottling house or bottling house storage license, per annum    $1,000
Brewer’s license, per annum                                  $500
Microbrewery license, per annum                                $500
Malt beverage distributor’s license, per annum               $400
Non-quota retail malt beverage package license, per annum      $200
Non-quota type 4 retail malt beverage drink license, per annum $200
Limited restaurant license, per annum                          $1,200
Limited golf course license, per annum                         $1,200
Qualified historic site, per annum                             $1,030
Authorized public consumption license, per annum               $250
 
   (B)   The fee for each of the first five supplemental bar licenses shall be
the same as the fee for the primary drink license. There shall be no charge for
each supplemental license issued in excess of five to the same licensee at the
same premises.
   (C)   The holder of a nonquota retail malt beverage package license may
obtain a nonquota type 4 malt beverage drink license for a fee of $50. The
holder of a nonquota type 4 malt beverage drink license may obtain a nonquota
retail malt beverage package license for a fee of $50.
   (D)   Authorized public consumption license. Reference City of Scottsville
Ordinance No. 874-23.
   (E)   Expiration of license; proration of fees. All city licenses, except
temporary licenses, shall begin on May 1 of any year and shall expire on April
30 of the following year as set forth in KRS 243.090 and 804 KAR 4:390. Any
licenses issued after November 1 of any year shall be assessed a fee which is
based on the pro rata portion of the remainder of the license period; however,
the cost of any license shall not be less than one-half the amount of the full
fee for an annual license of that type.
   (F)   Payment of license fees; delinquency. No licensee shall enter into or
begin operating any business for which a license is required by this chapter
until the license fee has been paid in full. The fee for renewal of any license
shall be paid with the renewal application. Failure to pay any license fee
within ten days after it becomes due shall result in a penalty equal to 10% of
the license fee. Any licensee failing to pay the fees, including penalties,
within ten days after such fees are due may be subject to revocation of the
license and to other penalties as provided in this chapter.
   (G)   Refund of fees.
      (1)   Should any licensee under this chapter be prohibited from
conducting the licensed business for the full period covered by the license
because of any changes that may hereafter be made in the laws of the
Commonwealth with reference to alcoholic beverages or other cause outside
licensee’s control, then the city shall refund to licensee the proportionate
part of the license fee for the period during which licensee is prevented from
carrying on said business if the licensee provides sufficient proof to the City
ABC Administrator that such period of inactivity was not the fault of the
licensee or the result of a revocation, suspension or other wrongdoing by
licensee, or an agent or employee of the licensee.
      (2)   In the event a violation of this chapter occurs that results in the
suspension or revocation of the license, the city shall not be required to
refund any portion of the license fee.
   (H)   Regulatory license fee.
      (1)   Pursuant to KRS 243.075, there is hereby imposed a regulatory
license fee on the gross receipts of sale of alcoholic beverages of each
licensee who has a local city license issued by the city ABC Administrator. The
city’s regulatory license fee shall be 1.5% of gross sales of all alcoholic
beverages sold by the drink. In the case of retail sales of package distilled
spirits and wine, the regulatory license fee shall be 1.5% of gross sales. The
regulatory license fee shall be 1.5% on gross retail sales of package malt
beverages.
      (2)   Payment of said regulatory fee shall be remitted to the City ABC
Administrator, who shall transmit all fees to the City Clerk, or his or her
designee, for deposit into the appropriate designated account. The city may use
said fees as permitted by law, including but not limited to, any cost of
additional policing, regulatory or administrative expenses related to the sale
of alcoholic beverages in the city. The regulatory license fee shall be in
addition to any other fees or licenses permitted by law, except that a credit
against a regulatory license fee in the city shall be allowed in an amount
equal to any license fee shall be based on paperwork required by the local and/
or state ABC Administrator, which may include but is not limited to tax returns
and financial statements. Said paperwork and payment will be due according to
the schedule set forth by the Mayor, or his or her designee, which may be set
at, but is not limited to, time periods consisting of a monthly or quarterly
billing by the local ABC office and/or the city.
      (3)   Failure to pay such remittance within ten days of the due date
constitutes a violation and shall subject a licensee to suspension or
revocation.
      (4)   Penalty for failure to file a return and pay remittance by the due
date is 5% of the regulatory fee for each 90 days or fraction thereof. The
total late filing penalty shall not exceed 25% of the regulatory fee; provided,
however, that in no case shall the penalty be less than $10.
      (5)   Interest at the rate of 8% per annum will apply to any late
payments.
   (I)   Disposition of fees and any other type of payment to the city. The
City ABC Administrator shall transmit all fees and any other types of payment
made to the city, upon collection, to the City Clerk, or his or her designee,
for deposit into the appropriate designated account.
(Ord. 873-23, passed 6-26-2023; Ord. 884-24, passed 6-24-2024)
§ 114.03 CITY ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 241.160 and KRS 241.170, there is hereby created the
office of the City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator (“City ABC
Administrator”).
   (B)   The Mayor of the city appoints the City Clerk, a presently established
office of the city, to serve as the City ABC Administrator, pursuant to KRS
241.160.
   (C)   The City ABC Administrator may from time to time appoint such
additional personnel, such as Alcoholic Beverage Control investigator(s), as is
necessary to assist him or her in the administration of this chapter.
   (D)   The City ABC Administrator shall have the same duties and functions
regarding local license applications and renewals as the state Department of
Alcoholic Beverage Control (“Department”) with respect to state licenses. The
City ABC Administrator shall have the same duties and functions regarding local
license penalization as the Alcoholic Beverage Control Board (“Board”) with
respect to state license penalization.
   (E)   To prevent potential conflicts of interests, no person shall be a City
ABC Administrator, an investigator, or an employee of the city, under the
supervision of the City ABC Administrator, who would be disqualified to be a
member of the Board under state law set forth in KRS 241.100.
   (F)   The City ABC Administrator shall have authority delegated by the
Mayor, and as authorized under KRS Ch. 241 to 244. The City ABC Administrator,
and his or her investigators, shall have jurisdiction co-extensive with the
boundaries of the city.
   (G)   The City ABC Administrator and his or her investigators shall have
available at all reasonable times for their inspection all books and records
required to be maintained by licenses under KRS 244.150 and the City ABC
Administrator shall receive copies of all reports submitted by licensee to the
Department.
   (H)   The City ABC Administrator, before entering upon his or her duties,
shall take the oath as prescribed in Section 228 of the Constitution. The ABC
Administrator and any employee delegated or assigned to the ABC Administration
may also be asked to execute a bond in such penal sum as the city deems
necessary unless said person is already covered under the city’s active bonds
as required under KRS in regard to officials and employees of the city.
(Ord. 873-23, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 114.04 APPLICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Advertisement. Before an application for a license shall be
considered, the applicant must publish a notice of its intent to apply for an
alcoholic beverage license in the newspaper used by the city for legal notices
under KRS 424.120. The notice shall include the following:
      (1)   The advertisement shall state the name and address of the applicant
and the name and address of each principal owner, partner, member, officer, and
director if the applicant is a partnership, limited partnership, limited
liability company, corporation, governmental agency, or other business entity
recognized by law. All advertisements shall state the location of the proposed
premises for which the license is sought, and the type of business, and type of
license for which application is made.
      (2)   The applicant shall attach to the application a newspaper clipping
of the advertisement.
   (B)   Form of application.
      (1)   All licenses granted under this chapter shall be approved by the
City ABC Administrator. Applications for the issuance of new licenses and for
renewals of existing licenses shall be in writing and upon the forms provided
by the Kentucky ABC Board and/or the city, both of which may be amended and
supplemented from time to time by each respective agency.
      (2)   The application shall be verified and shall set forth in detail
such information concerning the applicant and the premises for which the
license is sought, as required by the Kentucky Revised Statutes, the State
Department, and the city, including as follows:
         (a)   Name and address;
         (b)   Nature of interest;
         (c)   Whether or not a citizen of the United States;
         (d)   Date of birth;
         (e)   Date of residence was established in Kentucky if a resident of
Kentucky;
         (f)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any other license
or LLC, corporation, partnership, or other business organization holding a
license under this chapter;
         (g)   Extent of stock or company ownership;
         (h)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any license or LLC,
corporation, partnership or other business organization holding a license in
any other state or province.
      (3)   Each application shall be accompanied by a certified check, cashier
check, or money order for the amount of the license fee.
      (4)   In addition to the above specified information, the applicant shall
file, with the application, responses to any additional questions as may be
posed or prescribed by the City ABC Administrator. The City Council has adopted
a statement of guidelines and priorities for the issuance of licenses within
this chapter to determine the extent to which applications may further, or
impede, the objectives of those guidelines. Therefore, in addition to the
information contained in the application, the City ABC Administrator may
require such other information as the Administrator may, in his or her
discretion, deem desirable, reasonable, or appropriate to the consideration of
the application.
   (C)   Other conditions. In addition to any other inquiries, conditions or
considerations required or permitted by law:
      (1)   The City ABC Administrator shall not grant any alcoholic beverage
license or approve a renewal of a license until the applicant and his or her
place of business shall have been approved by a licensed building inspector,
and any and all other inspections required by the Kentucky Building Code or
other applicable law;
      (2)   No license to sell alcoholic or malt beverages may be granted or
renewed to any person who is delinquent in the payment of any property taxes,
both real and personal, any other taxes due to the city, fees of any type, or
charges due to any department of the city at the time of issuing the license,
nor may any license be granted or renewed to sell upon any premises or
property, owned and occupied by the licensee upon which there are any of the
above delinquent payments due and owing to the city. Further, if a licensee
becomes delinquent in the payment of any of the above at any time during the
license period, the license to sell alcoholic or malt beverages may be subject
to revocation or suspension.
      (3)   No person, whether applicant for license, or a licensee, shall in
any manner attempt to bribe, threaten, unduly influence, or intimidate the City
ABC Administrator, or any member of the city’s staff, or any state ABC
Administrator or staff, in any matter in which an application or proposed
application for license, or procedure for revocation or suspension is pending
before such officer. This division is not intended to stifle expressions of
opinion; however, it is intended to make clear that the ABC Administrators are
public officials charged with the administration and enforcement of the law,
both local and state. Any person applying for a license, or contesting the
revocation or suspension of a license, who engages in attempted bribes,
threats, attempted undue influence or intimidation of a city or state ABC
Administrator or staff shall be disqualified from receiving or retaining a
license, in addition to other penalties as provided by law. The procedures for
appeals shall apply to disqualifications, revocations or suspensions under this
chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to prohibit monetary
settlements in lieu of revocation or suspension of license after a final order
or revocation or suspension, where the chapter and applicable statutes allow
for such payments in settlement.
   (D)   Denial of licenses.
      (1)   The City ABC Administrator may deny a city license for any of the
following reasons:
         (a)   Causes for refusal to issue or renew a license and for
suspension or revocation of a city license shall be the same as provided for
state licenses according to KRS 243.450, 243.490 and 243.500, as well as
violation of any city ordinance regarding alcohol beverage licensing, sales or
the administration thereof.
         (b)   If the applicant has done any act for which a revocation of
license would be authorized under local, state, or federal law; or
         (c)   If the applicant has made any false material statement in his or
her application.
      (2)   An applicant who has been refused a license by the City ABC
Administrator may appeal the refusal to the state Board pursuant division (K)
below.
   (E)   Form of license. All city licenses shall be in such form as may be
provided by the ABC Administrator, but at the least shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the licensee;
      (2)   The number of the license;
      (3)   The type of license;
      (4)   A description by street and number, or otherwise, of the licensed
premises;
      (5)   The expiration date of the license;
      (6)   A statement in substance that the license shall not be a property
or vested right and that it may be revoked at any time pursuant to law.
   (F)   Change of information.
      (1)   If after a license to individuals or to a sole proprietor has been
issued, there is a change in any fact required to be set forth in the
application, a verified amendment in writing giving notice of the change shall
be filed with the City ABC Administrator with ten days of the change.
      (2)   Since a number of licenses issued by the city are in the name of
corporations or other business organizations, it is necessary that ownership
changes in such organizations be reported to the City ABC Administrator. The
City ABC Administrator can, therefore, investigate the person to whom the
ownership or management is transferred in order to ascertain whether that
person is precluded by statute from holding an interest in an alcoholic
beverage license.
      (3)   As used with regard to a partnership, corporation, LLC or other
business organization herein, the word “change” is construed to include any
change in managers, partners or LLC members, directors or officers of the
corporation, or change in ownership or stock whereby any person secures 10% of
the outstanding ownership or stock. Transfer of more than 10% of the total
ownership or stock shall require a new license.
      (4)   The following information shall be required concerning any new
manager, partner or LLC member, new director, officer, or person securing any
interest in alcoholic beverage license:
         (a)   Name and address;
         (b)   Nature of interest;
         (c)   Whether or not a citizen of the United States;
         (d)   Date of birth;
         (e)   Date residence was established in Kentucky if a resident of
Kentucky. If a resident, indicate when residence was established;
         (f)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any other license
or in any LLC, corporation, partnership, or other business organization holding
a license under this act;
         (g)   Extent of stock or company ownership;
         (h)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any license or in
any LLC, corporation, partnership, or other business organization holding a
license in any other state or province.
      (5)   This information shall be filed with the City ABC Administrator as
a verified amendment of the application pursuant to which the license was
granted. Filing shall be made within ten days of any change of required
information.
   (G)   Renewal of license.
      (1)   Every year, except in the case of the temporary licenses, each
licensee shall renew its license. All renewal licenses must be on file with the
City ABC Administrator no less than 30 days prior to the expiration of the
license for the preceding license period or the same shall be canceled, except
where the licensee is unable to continue in business at the same premises
licensed during the preceding license period as a result of construction, act
of God, casualty, death, the acquisition or threatened acquisition of the
premises by any federal, state, city or other governmental agency or private
organization possessing power of eminent domain, whether such acquisition is
voluntary or involuntary, or loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew
exiting lease; provided that said licensee shall file a written verified
statement no less than 20 days from the expiration date of the license, setting
forth these facts, and the City ABC Administrator is hereby authorized to
extend the time for filing of a renewal of such license for a reasonable length
of time within the sound discretion of the City ABC Administrator; provided,
however, such licensee shall pay a license fee from the expiration date of the
former license or licenses. Said license fee shall not be payable until
application is made for the transfer of said license to a new location.
      (2)   The renewal by the City ABC Administrator of the license shall not
be construed to be a waiver or acceptance of any violation which occurred prior
to such renewal and shall not prevent subsequent proceedings against the
licensee.
   (H)   Lost or destroyed license. When a license shall be lost or destroyed
without fault on the part of the licensee or his or her agent or employee, a
duplicate in lieu of the original license shall be issued by the City ABC
Administrator after the Administrator shall have been satisfied as to the
facts; provided, however, that the applicant for said duplicate license shall
pay a fee of $10 for the duplicate license.
   (I)   Revocation or suspension.
      (1)   Any license may be revoked or suspended by the City ABC
Administrator if the licensee shall have violated any of other provisions of
KRS Ch. 241 to 244, or any rule or regulation of the state Board, or of the
Kentucky Department of Revenue, relating to the regulation of the manufacture,
sale, and transportation, or taxation, of alcoholic beverages or if such
licensee shall have violated or shall violate any act of Congress or any rule
or regulation of any federal board, agency or commission, or this chapter now,
heretofore, or hereafter in effect relating to the regulation of the
manufacture, sale, and transportation, or taxation, of intoxicating liquors, or
any rules or regulations of the city heretofore in existence or authorized by
the terms of KRS Ch. 241 to 244 to be created, irrespective of whether the
licensee knew of or permitted the violation or whether the violation was
committed is disobedience of his or her instructions.
      (2)   A license may be revoked for any of the reasons for which the City
ABC Administrator would have been required to refuse a license if the facts had
been known.
      (3)   In addition to the foregoing stated causes, any license may be
revoked or suspended for the following causes:
         (a)   Conviction of the licensee or the licensee’s agent, servant, or
employee for selling any illegal alcoholic beverages on the licensed premises.
         (b)   Making any false, material statements in an application or
renewal application for a license or supplemental license.
         (c)   Conviction of the licensee or any of the licensee’s agents,
servants, or employees of: (1) two violations of the terms and provisions of
KRS Ch. 241 to 244, or any act regulating the manufacture, sale, and
transportation of alcoholic beverages within two consecutive years; (2) two
misdemeanors directly or indirectly attributable to the use of alcoholic
beverages within two consecutive years; or (3) any felony.
         (d)   Failure or default of a licensee to pay an excise tax or any
part of the tax or any penalties imposed by or under the provisions of any
statutes, ordinances, or Acts of Congress relative to taxation, or for a
violation of any related administrative regulations promulgated by the
Department of Revenue.
         (e)   Revocation of any state license provided in KRS 243.030,
243.040, or permit granted under any Act of Congress relative to the regulation
of the manufacture, sale, and transportation of alcoholic beverages.
         (f)   Setting up, conducting, operating, or keeping, on the licensed
premises, any gambling game, device, machine, contrivance, lottery, gift
enterprise, handbook, or facility for belting or transmitting bets on horse
races; or permitting to be set up, conducted, operated, kept, or engaged in, on
the licensed premises, any gambling game, device, machine, contrivance,
lottery, gift enterprise, handbook, or facility. This division shall not apply
to: (1) the sale of lottery tickets sold under the provisions of KRS Ch. 154A;
(2) the operation of a parimutuel system for betting, where authorized by law;
(3) the conduct of charitable gaming by a charitable organization licensed or
permitted under KRS Ch. 238; or (4) special temporary raffles of alcoholic
beverages under KRS 243.036.
         (g)   Conviction of the licensee, the licensee’s agents, servants, or
employees for: (1) the trafficking or possession upon the licensed premises of
controlled or illegal substances described in KRS Ch. 218A, including synthetic
drugs; (2) knowingly permitting the trafficking or possession by patrons upon
the licensed premises of controlled or illegal substances described in KRS Ch.
218A, including synthetic drugs; or (3) knowingly receiving stolen property
upon the licensed premises.
         (h)   Failure to comply with the terms of the City Administrator.
   (J)   Proceedings for revocation or suspension of license.
      (1)   Upon the verified complaint of any person, or on the initiative of
any law enforcement officer, or of the City ABC Administrator, the City ABC
Administrator may institute proceedings to revoke or suspend any license
granted under this chapter. A license may be revoked or suspended only after
the licensee shall have been given written notice, by certified or registered
mail, of the proposed revocation, including notice of the reasons for such
proposed action. The licensee shall be given opportunity to be heard in
opposition to the proposed revocation or suspension. The notice of proposed
action shall advise the licensee of the date, time and place of the hearing.
Notice shall be sufficient if mailed to the licensee at the address shown in
the last application for a license or in the last statement supplemental to or
in amendment of the application, whether or not the mailing is receipted for or
claimed.
      (2)   The specific procedures to be followed in hearings on actions for
revocation or suspension shall provide constitutional due process rights to the
City ABC license holder.
      (3)   A decision of the City ABC Administrator revoking or suspending a
license may be appealed to Board as provided in KRS 241.200 and KRS 243.550.
      (4)   Within three days after any order of revocation or suspension of a
license becomes final, notice of revocation shall be given to the licensee and
to the owner of the licensed premises. A notice mailed to the licensee and to
the owner of the licensed premises at the address shown in the last application
for a license or in the last statement supplemental to the application shall be
deemed sufficient compliance with this section. The licensee shall at once
surrender his or her license to the City ABC Administrator. If the revoked or
suspended license is not forthwith surrendered by the licensee, the Chief of
Police, at the request of the City ABC Administrator, shall immediately cause
one of his or her officers to take physical possession of the license and
return it to the City ABC Administrator.
      (5)   When a license has been revoked or suspended, the former licensee
may, with prior approval of the City ABC Administrator, dispose of and transfer
his or her stock of alcoholic beverages to an appropriate entity.
      (6)   An appeal from the decision of the City ABC Administrator revoking
or suspending a license shall be to the state Board pursuant to division (K)
below. The timely filing of an appeal shall stay further proceedings for
revocation.
      (7)   If a license is revoked or suspended by an order of the City ABC
Administrator, and the decision is not appealed, the licensee shall suspend all
operations authorized under his or her license upon finality and effectiveness
of the order. Upon finality of any final order of the state Board sustaining or
ordering revocation or suspension on appeal, the licensee shall at once suspend
all operations authorized under the suspended or revoked license.
   (K)   Appeals.
      (1)   Appeals from the orders of the City ABC Administrator may be taken
to the state ABC Board by filing a notice of appeal with the Board within 30
days after the decision or order of the County ABC Administrator is mailed or
delivered by personal service. The notice of appeal shall specify the county
administrator by name and shall identify the decision or order, or part of the
decision or order, being appealed. The notice shall contain a certificate that
a copy of the notice has been served on the City ABC Administrator and shall be
accompanied by a copy of the decision or order being appealed. Matters at issue
shall be heard by the Board as upon an original proceeding. Appeals from
decisions or orders of the county administrator shall be governed by KRS Ch.
13B.
      (2)   As provided by law no appealed City ABC Administrator order or
decision, or resulting state Board order, shall become effective or final until
all Board appeals, court appeals, or appeal times shall have been exhausted.
When a Board order becomes final and effective, the City ABC Administrator
shall enter such orders and take such action as required by the final order of
the Board.
   (L)   Transfer or assignment. No license issued under this chapter shall be
transferred or assigned either as to licensee or location except with prior
approval of the City ABC Administrator and not then until a payment of $100
shall be made to the City ABC Administrator.
   (M)   Review of license; books, records and reports.
      (1)   Applicants to whom a license is issued pursuant to this chapter
shall provide periodic information demonstrating compliance with the conditions
of any license, such as, but not limited to, the continuing requirement that a
minimum percentage of the applicant's business income is earned from the sale
of food. This documentation shall be provided on a schedule to be coordinated
with the applicant’s quarterly regulatory fee filings. The city shall provide
the form schedule to the licensee. The licensee’s acceptance of a license to
manufacture or traffic in alcoholic beverages shall constitute consent to the
filing of the quarterly report. In the case of caterer filing, the quarterly
report shall identify each catered event by type of event, date and address of
the event, and shall provide a per event breakdown of sales and the ratio of
food sales to alcohol sales during the reporting period. This requirement for
filing of reports notwithstanding, the city may at any time come upon the
premises of any licensee and examine the books and records to determine whether
the licensee is in compliance with all parts of this chapter. In the event the
conditions of any license requirement are not met during any particular
quarter, the City ABC Administrator shall have discretion in determining
whether revocation is appropriate or whether the licensee may be allowed a
reasonable period of time to reach compliance. If a good faith effort is
demonstrated by the licensee, the City ABC Administrator may apply an
accounting period of at least one year in determining whether or not the food
sale percentage requirement has been met.
      (2)   Every licensee under this chapter shall keep and maintain, upon the
licensed premises, adequate books and records of all transactions involved in
the sale of alcoholic beverages in the same manner required by the rules and
regulations of the ABC Board. Such books and records shall be available at all
reasonable times for inspection by the City ABC Administrator and such city
employees who may assist the City ABC Administrator in his or her review.
   (N)   Dormancy.
      (1)   It is necessary that a licensee actually conduct the business
authorized by such a license or else the license will be declared dormant and
become null and void after 90 days. Such is the intent of this section.
Realizing that a licensee, like other business, may have his or her business
interrupted by situations not under his or her control, various exceptions to
the dormancy rule have been included in this section.
      (2)   Any license under which no business is transacted during a period
of 90 days shall be deemed inactive and, unless the conditions set forth in
division (M)(3) below are proved to the satisfaction of the City ABC
Administrator, the license shall be surrendered to the City ABC Administrator.
If the license is not voluntarily surrendered, it shall be revoked by the City
ABC Administrator.
      (3)   The provisions of division (M)(2) hereof shall not apply to any
licensee who is unable to continue in business at the premises for which a
license is issued due to construction, an act of God, casualty, death, the
acquisition of the premises by any federal, state, city or other governmental
agency under power of eminent domain, whether acquisition is voluntary or
involuntary, or loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew existing
lease. Prior to the expiration of 90 days of inactivity, such licensee shall
furnish to the City ABC Administrator a verified statement setting forth the
fact that the licensee is unable to continue in business, for any of the
specific reasons set forth herein, and the City ABC Administrator may grant an
extension of the dormancy with the license continuing to remain in effect
during the license period or until same is transferred to another premises,
notwithstanding the fact that no business is transacted during said period;
provided, however, no such license shall be considered valid unless business is
conducted there under within 12 months from the date of notice to the City ABC
Administrator. Such extension may not extend beyond the renewal date but may be
for such times as the City ABC Administrator deems appropriate in exercise of
his or her sound discretion.
(Ord. 873-23, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 114.05 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   A licensee for distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages shall be
permitted to sell distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages between the
hours of 6:00 a.m. until 12:00 a.m. (midnight) Monday through Saturday.
   (B)   Said licensee shall be permitted to sell distilled spirits, wine and/
or malt beverages after the hours of 12:00 a.m. (midnight Saturday) to 1:00
a.m. (Monday through Saturday).
   (C)   A licensee for distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages shall be
permitted to sell distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages on Sunday after
the hours of 12:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. Licensees must obtain a Sunday Retail
Drink License in order to sell distilled spirits or wine by the drink on
Sunday.
   (D)   A licensee may sell distilled spirits, wine, and/or malt beverages on
New Year’s Eve until 1:00 a.m. on January 1, regardless of the day of the week
on which New Year’s Eve occurs; provided that, the appropriate licenses have
been obtained from both the city and the state ABC Board.
   (E)   Licensees which operate as golf courses, private clubs, distilleries,
and the like shall be allowed to sell distilled spirits, wine, or malt
beverages by the drink on Sunday between the hours of 12:00 p.m. until 10:00
p.m.
(Ord. 873-23, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 114.06 CONDITIONS, PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Gambling. No gambling or game of chance unless otherwise authorized by
the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be permitted in any form on such licensed
premises. Dice, slot machines, quarter pushers, prize redemption machines with
programmable payouts, or any device of chance is prohibited and shall not be
kept on such premises.
   (B)   Prevention of disorderly premises; security. The licensee shall be
responsible for keeping the premises orderly and must maintain adequate
security for the premises to ensure the safety, health and welfare of the
general public utilizing the licensed premise. Security standards are further
necessary to discourage unlawful activity in and around the licensed premises.
   (C)   Prizes and premiums prohibited. It shall be unlawful for a licensee to
give away or offer to give away anything tangible of value as a premium or
prize, or for any other pmpose in direct connection with the sale of malt
beverages unless permitted by KRS 244.500.
   (D)   Treating prohibited. It shall be unlawful for the licensee under this
Ordinance to give away any alcoholic beverage to a consumer in any quantity for
free or for less than for less than paid or current wholesale cost, unless the
licensee holds a sampling license or its license type permits limited free
samples (i.e., small farm winery, microbrewery, brewer’s), or a bona fide
“close out” sale approved by the state Administrators.
   (E)   Intoxicated persons, drunkenness. The licensee shall not sell, give,
or deliver any alcoholic beverages to any person who appears to a reasonable
person to be actually or apparently under the influence of alcoholic beverages,
controlled substances, other intoxicating substances, or any of these
substances in combination, to the degree that the person may endanger any
person or property, or unreasonably annoy persons in the vicinity.
   (F)   Underage sales. The licensee shall not sell, give, or deliver any
alcoholic beverages to any person who is under 21 years of age, or permit same.
   (G)   Sign requirements-notice to persons under the age of 21. Per state
law, the licensee shall display at all times in a prominent place a sign at
least 8" by 11" in 30 point or larger type font which states as follows:
      Persons under the age of twenty-one (21) are subject to a fine of up to
One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) if they:
         (1)   Enter licensed premises to buy, or have served to them,
alcoholic beverages.
         (2)   Possess, purchase or attempt to purchase, or get another to
purchase alcoholic beverages.
         (3)   Misrepresent their age for the purpose of purchasing or
obtaining alcoholic beverages.
   (H)   License to be displayed.
      (1)   The licensee, before commencing any business for which a license
has been issued, shall post and display at all times in a conspicuous place in
the room or principal room where the business is carried on so that all persons
visiting the place may readily see the license. The licensee shall not at any
time post the license on premises other than the licensed premises or upon
premises where traffic in alcoholic beverages is being carried on by any person
other than the license, or knowingly deface, destroy, or alter the license in
any respect.
      (2)   The licensee shall post in a prominent place easily seen by patrons
a printed sign at least 8" by 11" with gender-neutral language supplied by the
Kentucky Cabinet for Health and Family Services, which shall warn that drinking
alcoholic beverages prior to conception or during pregnancy can cause birth
defects.
   (I)   Legal transactions for wholesalers, distributors and retail. No
wholesaler or distributor shall sell any alcoholic beverages to any person in
the city for any consideration except under cash terms of the wholesaler or
distributor at or before the time of delivery. A wholesaler is also permitted
to extend credit for 30 days to a retailer for the purchase of distilled
spirits and wine.
   (J)   Employment restrictions. No licensee shall knowingly employ in
connection with his or her business any person who:
      (1)   Has been convicted of any felony within the last two years unless
permitted by KRS 244.090(2);
      (2)   Has been twice convicted of any misdemeanor or offense directly or
indirectly attributable to the use of intoxicating liquors within the last two
years unless permitted by KRS 244.090(2);
      (3)   Is under the age of 20 years who will be serving alcoholic
beverages or who will be having any contact whatsoever with the sale of alcohol
as defined under state statute, unless said person is exempt or permitted by
KRS 244.090 or KRS 244.087;
      (4)   Within two years prior to the date of his or her employment, has
had any city license under this chapter revoked for cause.
   (K)   Lavatory facilities required. All retail beer and retail drink
licenses shall be required to provide indoor or outdoor lavatory facilities for
their customers where such beverages are consumed on the premises.
   (L)   Nudity and adult entertainment activities prohibited. No licensee
shall offer or permit nudity, adult entertainment activities, including nude or
nearly nude dancing, adult motion picture, television, slide or stage shows,
cabarets or sexual entertainment centers on any licensed premise. No licensee
shall permit explicit sexual activity, whether actual or simulated, upon any
licensed premises. No licensee shall sponsor or permit wet t-shirt or wet
clothing contests, lingerie fashion shows, mud wrestling, jello wrestling or
similar activities, nor shall a licensee allow dancing with touching for
compensation (including but not limited to wages, tips or gratuities), or any
other service, display or contest requiring physical contact between patrons
and/or patrons and employees on any licensed premises. No licensee shall
sponsor, offer or permit drinking contests, all-you-can-drink specials or free
drinks on any licensed premise in the city.
   (M)   Cause for revocation. Violation of this and any other section shall
subject the licensee to penalties provided in this chapter and shall be cause
for revocation or suspension of city licenses.
(Ord. 873-23, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 114.07 MINORS.
   (A)   Except as specifically authorized under KRS Ch. 241 to 244, no person
under the age of 21 may possess alcoholic beverages or enter onto any licensed
premises for the purpose of acquiring alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   Except as permitted by KRS 244.085 and 804 KAR 5:070, no person under
the age of 21, may remain on any premises licensed for the package sale of
alcoholic beverages unless in the company of a parent or guardian. No person
under the age of 21, may enter any premises licensed for drink sales of
alcoholic beverages unless permitted by KRS 244.085(5) and 804 KAR 5:070. The
prohibition contained in this division shall not apply to premises where the
usual and customary business of the establishment is a gas station, convenience
store, grocery store, drugstore, and other business types listed in KRS 244.085
and by the state Board in 804 KAR 5:070.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly permit, aid, assist, induce, cause, or
otherwise encourage any minor to be in possession of, use or consume alcoholic
beverages. All licenses, as set out in this chapter, shall require proof of age
of all persons attempting to purchase or consume alcoholic beverages on the
licensee’s premises.
   (D)   No person being the owner or occupant or otherwise in possession or
control of any property located within the city shall knowingly allow any minor
to remain on such property while in possession of, using or consuming alcoholic
beverages.
   (E)   It shall be a defense to any prosecution under this section if the
person charged, upon discovery of said minor individuals, manifests a proper
effort to enlist the aid of and cooperate with law enforcement personnel in
stopping the minor individuals’ possession, consumption or use of alcoholic
beverages.
(Ord. 873-23, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 114.08 CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   Consumption at package store prohibited.
   (A)   No licensee of a package store, whether trafficking in distilled
spirits, wine or malt beverages, shall permit consumption of alcoholic
beverages on the premises unless it also holds the appropriate drink license.
The licensee shall post a prominent notice on the premises stating that
consumption of alcoholic beverages on premises is prohibited.
   (B)   This restriction regarding on premises consumption shall not prohibit
sampling as allowed for microbreweries and wineries under the provisions of KRS
Ch. 243, or where sampling is permitted for a retail distilled spirits and wine
licensee under the provisions of KRS 244.050, or beer tastings as permitted in
804 KAR 11:030.
(Ord. 873-23, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 114.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   City police officers and the City ABC Administrator and his or her
investigator(s) are hereby authorized to enforce this chapter in full.
(Ord. 873-23, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 114.10 MANDATORY RESPONSIBLE BEVERAGE SERVICE TRAINING.
   (A)   All persons employed in the selling and/or serving of alcoholic
beverages shall participate in and complete a responsible beverage serving
(“RBS”) program acceptable to the City ABC Administrator.
   (B)   All persons required to complete training under division (A) above
shall complete that training within 30 days of the date on which the person
first becomes subject to the training requirement. When a new business is
licensed to serve alcoholic beverages, all employees must be trained prior to
the opening of the business.
   (C)   Each licensee shall be responsible for compliance with the training
requirements and shall maintain for inspection by the City ABC Administrator a
record or file on each employee that shall contain the pertinent training
information. Each premise licensed hereunder must at all times when alcoholic
beverages are being served have at least one person currently certified in
responsible beverage service training on duty as described herein.
   (D)   All persons completing the training required by this section shall be
re-certified not less than once every three years thereafter.
(Ord. 873-23, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 114.11 SIGNS AND ADVERTISING.
   (A)   All signage shall be in compliance with any and all other existing
rules, regulations, and city ordinances, including but not limited to, the
Planning and Zoning Ordinance as currently enacted, and/or as may be amended in
the future.
   (B)   No flashing lights shall be used to illuminate the exterior of any
premises licensed under this chapter.
   (C)   Any advertising by any licensee under this chapter shall be in
compliance with KRS 244.130 and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   (D)   No licensee shall publish or display advertising that is false or
misleading, nor shall any licensee publish or display advertising that implies
that consumption of alcoholic beverages is fashionable or the accepted course
of behavior, or advertising that contains any statement, picture or
illustration implying that the consumption of alcoholic beverages enhances
athletic prowess, whether or not any known athlete is depicted or referred to,
nor shall any licensee publish or display advertising that encourages
intoxication by referring to the intoxicating effects of alcohol (or the use of
terms such as “high test”, “high proof” or “extra strong”) or depicting
activities that tend to encourage excessive consumption.
   (E)   No licensee shall erect or allow to be erected any banner that
displays any particular brand of alcoholic beverage on the outside of the
building or on the property.
   (F)   Signage which refers directly or indirectly to alcoholic beverages
will be limited to one sign not over two square feet that must be displayed
from the inside of the window or interior of the business. No additional signs,
banners, posters or other type of displaying advertising which refers either
directly or indirectly to alcoholic beverages shall be displayed on, nor shall
it be visible from the exterior of any premises licensed for the sale of
alcoholic beverages, except that reference to such may be included in the name
of the business. This restriction shall not prevent any licensee from placing
in the windows of the licensed premises business cards not larger than two and
one-half inches in size, setting forth the price at which the licensee offers
alcoholic beverages for sale.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this chapter to distribute
or cause to be distributed any handbills, circulars, or cards as a medium of
advertising alcoholic beverages.
   (H)   No licensee shall advertise alcoholic beverages on any municipally-
owned property or at any municipally-sponsored event.
(Ord. 873-23, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 114.12 SIDEWALK CAFÉ PERMIT.
   (A)   Sidewalk café permit.
      (1)   Licensees in the downtown business district/area may request a
permit to use sidewalk as an adjunct to the primary and adjacent licensed
premises to serve food and alcoholic beverages there. In the case of permitted
sidewalk cafés, they shall be deemed part of the licensed premises.
      (2)   Any licensee/restaurant that is licensed under this chapter and the
provisions of the state ABC laws, may, upon application to the local ABC
Administrator, ask permission to expand the operation of the business/
restaurant onto a part, and only that part, of the public sidewalk which
immediately adjoins the licensed premises (hereinafter referred to as “sidewalk
café”). Licensees who do not serve food shall not be eligible to apply for a
sidewalk café permit.
   (B)   Conditions for sidewalk café permit. The issuance of a permit shall be
subject to the following conditions and restrictions; provided, however, that
the ABC Administrator may without adverse hearing procedures impose additional
reasonable restrictions or withdraw approval upon the operation of any sidewalk
café where necessary in the judgment of the said Administrator to protect the
public health, safety, or welfare or to prevent a nuisance from developing or
continuing:
      (1)   No sidewalk café shall be permitted in any portion of the public
sidewalk where normal pedestrian traffic flow is obstructed. A minimum
clearance width of 36 inches must be maintained on the public sidewalk at all
times. The sidewalk café shall not be permitted in any manner to obstruct the
entrance/exit to the restaurant.
      (2)   No tables, chairs or any other furnishings, except plant tubs,
shall be placed in the area used for the sidewalk café during any period when
the sidewalk café is not open and being operated. They shall be removed at the
end of each business day at the hour specified in the permit. Umbrellas,
tables, chairs, and other portable appurtenances shall be confined to the area
shown on the approved permit. While such café is in operation, all tables and
chairs shall be kept in a clean, sanitary condition.
      (3)   The use of a portion of the public sidewalk as a sidewalk café
shall not be an exclusive use. All public improvements, including but not
limited to, trees, light poles, traffic signals, pull boxes or manholes, or any
public-initiated maintenance procedures, shall take precedence over said use of
the public sidewalk at all times.
      (4)   The licensee shall, in addition to all other requirements of law,
take reasonable steps to ensure that alcoholic beverages are consumed only by
patrons of the establishment who are of age, and not by passersby or persons
who are not of age or who are obviously or apparently intoxicated.
      (5)   No disposable cups or drinking vessels may be used and the licensee
shall not permit any alcoholic beverages to be taken off premises by patrons,
customers, or guests.
      (6)   No amplified sound shall be used within a sidewalk café. At no time
shall any music originating from any part of the premises create a nuisance.
      (7)   Dancing shall not be permitted or allowed in the sidewalk café.
      (8)   The licensee must at all times comply with all federal, state and
local laws regarding the sale, service and consumption of alcohol and the
operation of the premises.
      (9)   The permit for sidewalk café may not be assigned or transferred.
   (C)   Other requirements applicable to sidewalk cafés. No sidewalk café
permit shall be effective unless the licensee has filed with the City
Administrator evidence of insurance, insuring the licensee against liability
imposed by law arising out of the ownership, maintenance, or operation of such
sidewalk café, in an amount to be established by the City Attorney and the
city’s Safety Coordinator. The city shall be named an additional insured in the
policy required. Such insurance policy shall further provide expressly that it
may not be canceled except upon ten day’s written notice (or more) filed with
the ABC Administrator and the City Attorney.
(Ord. 873-23, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to any criminal prosecution instituted in Allen County
District Court against an alleged violator, the City ABC Administrator may
assess civil fines in lieu of suspension as authorized in KRS 243.480,
including the per diem assessments for ongoing violations. Payment of all fines
shall be remitted to the City ABC Administrator, who shall then transmit the
fines to the City Clerk for deposit in the appropriate designated account.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter, for which no other penalty is hereby provided, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor, and subject to prosecution in the Allen County Court System, as
follows: for the first offense, be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500,
or imprisoned for not more than six months, or both. The penalties provided for
in this division shall be in addition to the revocation or suspension of the
offender’s license. If the offender is a corporation, LLC, joint stock company,
association or other business organization, or a fiduciary, the principal
officer, or officers responsible for the violation may be imprisoned.
(Ord. 873-23, passed 6-26-2023)
CHAPTER 115: CANNABIS BUSINESS OPERATIONS
Section
   
115.01   Cannabis business operations
§ 115.01 CANNABIS BUSINESS OPERATIONS.
   City Council ordains that, in accordance with KRS 218B.130(2)(a)1, all
cannabis business operations whatsoever are prohibited within the city limits
of the City of Scottsville.
(Ord. 882-24, passed 6-10-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   CURFEW
CHAPTER 130: CURFEW
Section
   
130.01   Purpose
   
130.02   Exemptions
   
130.03   Authority of law enforcement officers
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purposes for the enactment of this chapter are the protection of
minors, the reduction of nocturnal juvenile crime, and the promotion of
parental control over minors.
   (B)   A curfew is hereby declared and established for all persons under the
age of 18 years and it shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18
years to loiter, wander, or remain upon the public streets, sidewalks, roads,
alleys, parks, playgrounds, public buildings, places of amusement, or other
public places in the city between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.,
Sundays through Thursday, and 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., Fridays and Saturdays.
(Ord. 646-95, passed 9-11-1995) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall not be applicable to a minor under age 18 years of
age who is accompanied by a parent, guardian, or person having legal custody of
such minor or an adult authorized by a parent, guardian, or person having legal
custody of such minor.
   (B)   This chapter also shall not be applicable in medical emergencies or to
any minor who is going to or returning directly home from lawful employment, an
athletic, educational, or religious event, or a minor engaged in interstate
travel proceeding directly through the city.
   (C)   This chapter shall further not be applicable to the exercise of any
rights protected by the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution; provided,
that written notice signed by the minor and countersigned by a parent,
guardian, or person having legal custody is in the possession of such minor
specifying when, where, and in what manner said minor will be exercising such
First Amendment rights.
   (D)   This chapter shall not apply to any minor who has become emancipated.
(Ord. 646-95, passed 9-11-1995)
§ 130.03 AUTHORITY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer may stop and question any minor suspected
of violating this chapter and may ascertain the name and address of the
parents, guardians, or persons having legal custody of such minor.
   (B)   If the investigating law enforcement officer has probable cause to
believe that a violation of this chapter has occurred, a formal complaint shall
be filed charging the parents, guardians, or persons having legal custody of
such minor with an infraction of this chapter and citing them to appear in the
District Court to answer the charges in said complaint.
(Ord. 646-95, passed 9-11-1995)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   The parents, guardians, or persons having legal custody of a minor found to
have violated the provisions of this chapter, shall be guilty of a violation,
per KRS 532.020(4), and shall be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed the sum
of $250.
(Ord. 646-95, passed 9-11-1995)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
153.   ZONING CODE
      
154.   HISTORIC PRESERVATION
      
155.   CELLULAR ANTENNA TOWERS AND WIRELESS TRANSMISSION STATIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   E 9-1-1 identification for buildings
   
150.02   Adoption of Building Code
   
150.03   Dilapidated, deteriorated, and blighted buildings
   
150.04   Erection of permanent structures
   
150.05   Requirements for construction of buildings in fire zones
   
150.06   Building requirements in proximity to churches
   
150.07   International Property Maintenance Code
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 92
§ 150.01 E 9-1-1 IDENTIFICATION FOR BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:
      ADDRESS. A unique identification of a location which may consist of a
street number, street direction, street name, street type, and unit, at a
minimum, a number and a name is required.
      BUILDING NUMBER. The number, or any part thereof, assigned to a principal
building or structure. Where there is more than one principal building or
structure on a property, each principal building or structure will be assigned
either a building number or other site number.
      PRINCIPAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A structure such as an office building,
apartment building, retail structure or other similar structure wherein the
primary or major activity on the property takes place. The term as used in this
section does not include accessory or incidental structures such as garages,
storage sheds or similar structures. The division of NG911, Office of
Addressing shall determine whether, for purposes of this section only, a
structure constitutes a principal building or structure.
      PRIVATE ACCESS EASEMENT. The right of a land owner to ingress and egress
to his or her property over any adjoining property of another for the purpose
of accessing the public right-of-way.
      PROPERTY NUMBER. The numeric part of an address.
      SITE NUMBER. The street number component, or any part thereof, of an
address. This number may or may not be the same as the property number.
   (B)   Assignment of addresses.
      (1)   All properties within the current Scottsville city limits shall be
assigned an address by the division of NG911, Office of Addressing for the
purposes of taxation, public safety and provision of services.
      (2)   The division of NG911, Office of Addressing shall be the only
department of the city authorized to assign or cause to be assigned, delete, or
change a property number, site number, unit number, and/or a building number
where appropriate. The division of NG911, Office of Addressing shall maintain a
street index file containing the official list of valid street names. No other
government entity, agency, department or division, other than division of
NG911, Office of Addressing, is authorized to assign site, unit, property or
building numbers or street names. All such actions are to be reviewed and
approved by the Addressing Committee, which is comprised of members of the
divisions of NG911 and its addressing office, fire and emergency services,
police, planning, and GIS; the Property Valuation Administrator’s Office, and
the United States Post Office, as further provided in The Addressing Guide
Allen County/Scottsville which is attached hereto and incorporated herein by
reference as additional guidance in numbering and addressing properties, and
filed with the City Clerk as a part of the public record. In addition, the City
Council is hereby empowered to prescribe, adopt, and promulgate rules and
regulations relating to any matter or thing pertaining to these provisions. The
Code Enforcement Officer shall see the administration and enforcement of the
provisions.
      (3)   No private access easement shall be named without the prior
approval of the division of NG911, Office of Addressing. All private access
easements that are named with the approval of the division of NG911, Office of
Addressing shall have a regulation street sign placed at each intersection of
the named easement and any other named easement or street. The regulation
street sign shall be purchased and erected at the expense of the owner of the
private access easement unless the street sign is located at the intersection
of a private access easement and the public right-of-way.
   (C)   Numbering property, buildings and fire gates; display of numbers.
Unless otherwise provided herein, any site number that is required to be posted
pursuant to this section or any previously enacted ordinances shall comply with
the following minimum criteria or standards of visibility:
      (1)   Unless determined otherwise by the division of NG911, Office of
Addressing, it shall be a minimum of four inches in height, except for
industrial or commercial buildings or structures from which such numbers are
not readily visible from the street or named easement, which shall be a minimum
of ten inches in height, with a minimum width of one and three-quarter (1.75)
inches, and which shall be affixed above or beside the main entrance of such
industrial or commercial building or structure whenever possible:
         (a)   It shall be affixed to the structure and at least three feet
above ground level; and
         (b)   It shall be affixed to the structure or displayed not more than
four feet from the street or named easement upon which the structure is located
and addressed (i.e., on both sides of a single mailbox); however, postings will
only be satisfactory if they clearly indicate the correct structure.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the above, where more than one principal building
or structure is located upon a property and where the site number is clearly
displayed at the street entrance to the property, each principal building or
structure shall not be required to display the site number so long as each
building or structure is clearly identified by a building number.
      (3)   Once the appropriate building permit(s) is issued, the owner of the
property is required to post the assigned numbers for the site on a temporary
sign that is conspicuously posted and visible, until such time as the permanent
numbers can be displayed in accordance with the requirements of this section,
which is to be done prior to any final inspection for occupancy.
   (D)   Addressing.
      (1)   All addresses must contain a street number. No street number may
contain more than four digits or less than two digits. Only whole numbers may
be used in addresses. There shall be no non-sequencing of street numbers
contained in addresses on either side of street. Street number ranges shall be
based on the Lyman Uniform Street Numbering System.
         (a)   The properties on Main Street, its extensions, and all
thoroughfares parallel therewith shall be numbered east and west.
         (b)   The properties on Court Street and its extensions and all
thoroughfares parallel therewith shall be numbered north and south from Main
Street and shall be so numbered that the even numbers shall be on the south and
east sides of the street and the uneven numbers shall be on the north and west
sides of the street.
      (2)   An address shall not contain a duplication of the type of street
within its name (e.g., James Street Street). Street names shall never include a
“type” (e.g. Avenue of Winners Street).
         (a)   Incomplete yet separate streets shall maintain duplicate names
until it is determined that their connection is not applicable. If no
connections have been proposed within five years, then the NG911 Addressing
Committee will reassess the disconnected streets. Once the roadways are
assessed as being unable to connect to one another, the addresses shall be
changed to assign unique addresses for all affected segments.
   (E)   Renumbering. Whenever, in the opinion of the Addressing Committee, it
shall become necessary or advisable to readdress any or all properties and/or
sites on a street, the division of NG911, Office of Addressing shall make a
list of all properties and/or sites on such street and designate the address
for all such properties or sites, and thereupon notify the owners, and
occupants, if the owner be a nonresident thereof, to have the designated number
properly displayed on such property or site. Once identified, all properties
that are to be readdressed shall be presented to and approved by the City
Council through resolutions.
   (F)   Maintenance of number display; defacement; noncompliance, penalties.
      (1)   The division of NG911, Office of Addressing is authorized to
require the owner of any business or residential structure within the current
Scottsville boundary from which the address, or any part thereof, has been
removed or damaged to cause the same to be replaced at the expense of the
owners thereof. The division of NG911, Office of Addressing shall also have the
power to require the owner of any business or residential structure within the
current city boundary to affix an address and/or building, site and/or property
numbers, or any part thereof, as required by this section. The city Code
Enforcement Officer may issue notices of violations and citations to enforce
this section and the Land Subdivision Regulations and such citations may be
enforced as civil offenses.
      (2)   The following shall constitute violations:
         (a)   The failure of any owner of a business or residential structure
to affix an address and/or building, site and/or property numbers, or any part
thereof, upon a structure or other device, within ten business days of
notification by the division of NG911, Office of Addressing;
         (b)   The failure of any owner of a private access easement to erect
regulation street signs in accordance with this section within 30 days from the
date the division of NG911, Office of Addressing approves said request;
         (c)   Naming a private access easement without the prior approval of
the division of NG911, Office of Addressing; or
         (d)   Placing or causing to be placed any sign bearing a name not
approved by the division of NG911, Office of Addressing upon any private access
easement.
      (3)   Every person failing to perform the duties required of him or her
by or to comply with the provisions of this section or the Land Subdivision
Regulations, shall for every offense be fined not less than $50 nor more than
$500 and each day’s continuance of any such violation shall be a separate
offense.
   (G)   Manufactured homes. The manufactured home park owner shall number each
home, and manufactured home spaces will comply with this section.
(Ord. 710-04, passed 6-14-2004; Ord. 887-24, passed 12-20-2024)
§ 150.02 ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The Commonwealth Building Code as promulgated by KRS 198B.050 et
seq. and 815 KAR 7:120 is hereby adopted in full as an ordinance of the city
and the county as if set out in full herein; that a copy of the said
Commonwealth Building Code together with a copy of all other regulations or
NFPA Phamplets adopted or referred to thereunder is on file in the office of
the City Clerk and the County Clerk, and the Clerks shall at all times keep a
copy of said Building Code for reference. See OAG 80-61.
      (2)   The County Judge and the City Mayor are hereby appointed as the
local enforcement agents of the city and county and shall have all of the
powers provided by statute or regulation, including the appointment of a local
appeals board in accordance with KRS 198B.070.
      (3)   The Mayor and County Judge/Executive, with the approval of the City
Council and the Fiscal Court, shall have the power to employ a Building
Inspector for the city and county and to contract for such services in
accordance with KRS 198B.060.
      (4)   Residential building permit fees.
         (a)   General. A permit to begin work for new construction,
alteration, removal or other building operations shall not be issued until the
fees prescribed by law shall have been paid to the Commission. If an amendment
to a permit necessitates an additional fee because of an increase in the
estimated cost of the work involved, the permit shall not be approved until the
additional fee has been paid
         (b)   Special fees. Payment of fees for construction, alteration or
removal, and for all work done in connection with or concurrently with the work
contemplated by a building permit shall not relieve the applicant or holder of
the permit from the payment of other fees that may be prescribed by law or
ordinance for water taps, sewer connections, electrical permits, erection of
signs and display structures, marquees or other appurtenant structures, or fees
of inspections or certificates of occupancy or other privileges or requirements
established by law.
         (c)   Local jurisdiction. The fees for plan examination and inspection
functions required by the city and county shall be as prescribed in subsections
(4)(d)1. through 6. below, as applicable.
         (d)   Fee schedule. The fees shall be paid in accordance with the
following table:
Scottsville-Allen County Fee Schedule
Occupancy Type Cost Per Square Foot
Scottsville-Allen County Fee Schedule
Occupancy Type            Cost Per Square Foot
Assembly                  $.16
Business                  $.15
Day care centers          $.15
Educational               $.15
High hazard               $.16
Industrial factories      $.15
Institutional             $.16
Mercantile                $.15
Residential               $.15
Storage                   $.15
Utility and miscellaneous $.13
 
         (e)   Fast track elective. For permit applicants seeking early site
and foundation approval prior to full review of complete set of construction
documents, the fee shall be that as calculated from the table above plus 50% of
the full fee. The additional 50% fee shall not be less than $400 and not more
than $3,000. The entire fee shall be paid at the time of the initial plans
submission.
         (f)   Submission of plans and fees. All plans and specifications
required to be submitted to the Department by this code shall be accompanied by
the applicable fee as set forth herein, rounded to the nearest dollar.
         (g)   Method of payment. All fees required herein shall be in check
form payable to the Scottsville-Allen County Planning Commission.
         (h)   Construction approval. Approval for construction shall not be
issued by the Commission until all required fees have been paid.
         (i)   New construction. Commission plan review fees for new buildings
shall be calculated by multiplying the total building area under construction
by the cost per square foot of each occupancy type as listed in the table
above. Total square footage of the building shall be determined by the outside
dimensions of the building. Minimum fee for review of plans under this section
shall be $285. The fee for buildings with multiple or mixed occupancies may be
calculated by using the cost per square foot multiplier of the predominant use.
         (j)   Additions to existing buildings. Plan review fees for additions
to existing buildings, which shall not require the entire building to conform
to the Kentucky Building Code, shall be calculated in accordance with above
table by the measurements of the square footage of the addition, as determined
by the outside dimensions of the addition. Minimum fee for the review of plans
under this section shall be $285.
         (k)   Change in use. Plan review fees for existing buildings in which
the use group or occupancy type is changed shall be calculated in accordance
with the above table by using the total square footage of the entire building
or structure under the new occupancy type as determined by the outside
dimensions. Minimum fee for review of plans under this section shall be $285.
         (l)   Alterations and repairs. Plan review fees for alterations and
repairs not otherwise covered by this fee schedule shall be calculated by
multiplying the cost for the alterations or repairs by 0.0030; or calculated by
multiplying the total area being altered, or repaired by the cost per square
foot of each occupancy type as listed in the above table, whichever is less.
The total square footage shall be determined by the outside dimensions of the
area being altered or repaired. The minimum fee for review of plans under this
section shall be $285.
         (m)   Roofing repair. If only the roof is being repaired, the cost for
plan review and inspection is only $50.
         (n)   Specialized fees. In addition to the above fees, the fees in the
below table shall be applied for the specialized plan reviews listed:
Automatic Sprinkler
Plan Review Fee Schedule Fee
Automatic Sprinkler
Plan Review Fee Schedule Fee
04 - 25                  $150
26 - 100                 $200
101 - 200                $250
201 - 300                $275
301 - 400                $325
401 - 750                $375
Over 750                 $375 plus $.30 per sprinkler over 750
 
         (o)   Fire detection system review fee. Zero to 20,000 square feet
shall be $275 over 20,000 square feet shall be $275 plus $30 for each
additional 10,000 square feet in excess of 20,000 square feet.
         (p)   Standpipe plan review fee. $275 (combination standpipe and riser
plans shall be reviewed under the automatic sprinkler review fee schedule).
         (q)   Carbon dioxide suppression system review fee. One to 200 pounds
of agent shall be $275, over 200 pounds of agent shall be $275 plus $.05 per
pound in excess of 200 pounds.
         (r)   Clean agent suppression system review fee. Up to 35 pounds of
agent shall be $275; over 35 pounds shall be $275 plus $.10 per pound in excess
of 35 pounds. The fee for gaseous systems shall be $.10 per cubic foot and not
less than $275.
         (s)   Foam suppression system review fee. $0.50 per gallon of foam
concentrates where the system is not part of an automatic sprinkler system.
Foam suppression system plans that are submitted as part of an automatic
sprinkler system shall be reviewed under the automatic sprinkler review fee
schedule. The fee for review of plans under this section shall not be less than
$275 or more than $1,500.
         (t)   Commercial range hood.
            1.   Commercial range hood review fee. $225 per hood. Includes
range hood and suppression system plans.
            2.   Commercial range hood extinguishing system review fee. $150
per system when the range hood extinguishing system is submitted separate from
the range hood system.
         (u)   Dry chemical systems review fee (except range hoods). One to 30
pounds of agent shall be $275: over 30 pounds of agent shall be $275 plus $.25
per pound in excess of 30 pounds.
         (v)   Spectator seating system review fee. Seating systems having one
to 1,000 seats shall be $275; over 1,000 seats shall be $275 plus $20 for each
additional 200 seats in excess of 1,000 seats. The total number of seats in
seating systems without dividing arms shall be calculated at 18 inches per
seat.
         (w)   State jurisdiction. The Kentucky Commission for Building and
Inspection jurisdiction projects will not be required to obtain a local permit.
         (x)   Without a permit. The fee shall be doubled for construction
started without a permit.
      (5)   The Commonwealth Building Code shall not be extended to single-
family residences in this jurisdiction, see KRS 198B.010(4) and KRS 198B.010
(5).
   (B)   Adoption of Uniform Commonwealth Building Code for single-family
residential construction.
      (1)   The Uniform Commonwealth Building Code, which includes the CABO
One- and Two- Family Dwelling Code as promulgated in 815 KAR 7:125, by the
Commonwealth Department of Housing, Buildings and Construction for single-
family residential construction is hereby adopted by reference in its entirety
and enacted as an ordinance of the city as if set forth completely herein.
      (2)   A copy of said Uniform Commonwealth Building Code, together with a
copy of the Cabo One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code and all NFPA pamphlets or
other regulations adopted or referred to thereunder shall be maintained on file
at the City Clerk’s office for reference.
      (3)   A certified building inspector shall be selected and contracted
with to perform the duties required by the Uniform Commonwealth Building Code
for single-family residential construction. A certified electrical inspector
and a certified plumbing inspector shall be contracted with to perform the
plumbing and electrical inspections required by said Uniform Commonwealth
Building Code.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-12-1984; Ord. 698-02, passed 11-18-2002; Ord. 704-03,
passed 2-10-2003; Ord. 807-16, passed 4-11-2016)
§ 150.03 DILAPIDATED, DETERIORATED, AND BLIGHTED BUILDINGS.
   (A)   (1)   There exists in city dilapidated, deteriorated, and blighted
buildings and structures which constitute a serious menace, injurious to the
public health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the residents of the
city.
      (2)   The existence of these dilapidated, deteriorated, and blighted
buildings and structures:
         (a)   Contribute substantially and increasingly to the spread of
disease and crime and to losses by fire and accident;
         (b)   Necessitate expensive and disproportionate expenditures of
public funds for the preservation of the public health and safety; for crime
prevention, correction, prosecution; and punishment, and increased juvenile
delinquency; for the maintenance of adequate police, fire, and accident
protection; and for other public services and facilities;
         (c)   Constitute an economic and social liability;
         (d)   Substantially impair or arrest the sound growth of the
community;
         (e)   Retard the provision of decent, safe, and sanitary housing
accommodations;
         (f)   Depreciate assessable values of adjoining properties;
         (g)   Cause an abnormal exodus of families from the adjoining
neighborhood;
         (h)   Are detrimental to the health, well-being, and dignity of the
residents of the neighborhood; and
         (i)   Threaten the deterioration of the adjoining properties.
   (B)   It is the policy of the city and a public use and purpose to protect
and promote the health, safety, welfare, and interest of the people of the city
by eliminating the dilapidated, deteriorated, and blighted buildings and
structures within the city.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DILAPIDATED, DETERIORATED, AND BLIGHTED. Any building or structure which
has become a place of accumulation of trash and debris or a haven for rodents
or other vermin because of:
         (a)   Physical condition or use is regarded as a public nuisance at
common law;
         (b)   Physical condition, use, or occupancy is considered an
attractive nuisance to children;
         (c)   Its condition, if residential property, is unfit for human
habitation;
         (d)   It is a fire hazard or is otherwise dangerous to the safety of
persons or property;
         (e)   The utilities, plumbing, sewerage, heating, or other facilities
have been disconnected, destroyed, removed, or rendered ineffective so that the
property is unfit for its intended use; or
         (f)   Neglect or lack of maintenance has become a place for
accumulation of trash and debris or a haven for rodents or other vermin.
   (D)   There is hereby established a Property Review Commission consisting of
three members appointed by the Mayor and approved by the City Council. The
members must be 21 years old and a resident and property owner of the city. The
duty of the Commission shall be to inspect and review properties and make a
written determination as to whether or not said properties are dilapidated,
deteriorated, or blighted.
   (E)   (1)   Upon a determination by the Property Review Commission that a
property is dilapidated, deteriorated, and blighted and the certification of
such conditions to Commission, the Commission shall notify the owner of such
property of the determination which shall describe the conditions that render
the property dilapidated, deteriorated, and blighted and shall demand the
correction and abatement of the conditions within 90 days. An extension of the
90-day time period may be granted by Commission if the owner demonstrates that
such a time period is insufficient to correct the conditions cited in the
notice.
      (2)   The notice shall be mailed to the property owner by certified mail,
return receipt, to the address listed on the ad valorem tax rolls; if the
address of the property owner cannot be ascertained, a copy of the notice shall
be posted on a conspicuous place on the affected property.
   (F)   The City Council may order that a building or structure be razed or
demolished and removed on any property which has been determined and certified
by the Property Review Commission as dilapidated, deteriorated, and blighted,
if the Council finds:
      (1)   Such property has deteriorated to such an extent as to constitute a
serious and growing menace to the public health, safety, and welfare:
      (2)   Such property is likely to continue to deteriorate unless
corrected;
      (3)   The continued deterioration of such property may contribute to the
blighting or deterioration of the area immediately surrounding the property;
      (4)   The owner of such property has failed to correct and abate the
conditions that exist and the deterioration of the property; and
      (5)   The joint City-County Planning and Zoning Commission has determined
that the reuse of the property for residential or other zoned use is in keeping
with the Comprehensive Plan.
   (G)   Any affected property owner may seek injunctive or other appropriate
relief by the initiation of a civil action in the County Circuit Court.
   (H)   The city shall have a lien against the affected real estate for the
reasonable value of labor, materials, and equipment used in remedying the
conditions.
(Ord. 692-02, passed 5-13-2002)
§ 150.04 ERECTION OF PERMANENT STRUCTURES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to erect a
building within the flood- prone area of the incorporated limits of the city,
which is not flood-proofed to the 100-year elevation.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to erect a building within
the incorporated limits of the city, except those buildings used for
agricultural purposes, shall be required to obtain a building permit before
starting such construction, and it shall be the duty of the Mayor to inspect
the area and buildings plans, and in the event the plans are in conformity with
division (A) above, the Mayor shall issue a building permit and in the same
event same does not conform to the provisions of division (A) above, said
building permit shall be denied.
   (C)   Upon application for a building permit, there shall be paid to the
city the sum of $10.
   (D)   This section shall be in effect upon passage and publication as
required by law.
(Ord. 526, passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.99
Cross-reference:
   Flood Damage Prevention, see
Ch. 151
§ 150.05 REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF BUILDINGS IN FIRE ZONES.
   (A)   (1)   The section of the city surrounding the Public Square and
extending from said Square one block on S. Court Street and extending from said
Public Square on E. Main Street to, and including, the L&N Depot and the
territory embraced therein and including the entire block abutting said N.
Court Street, W. Main Street, and S. Court Street and E. Main Street to First
Street, but including only the property immediately abutting E. Main Street
from said First Street eastward to and including L&N Depot, shall be and is
hereby set aside and declared to be in one fire zone and shall be treated as
such.
      (2)   No business building, buildings, or structures shall be built or
erected or constructed within the said fire zone or area specified in this
division (A), except and unless its walls and sides be built or constructed of
brick, concrete, iron, steel, or some other inflammable substance and said
building, they shall be covered with tin, metal, or slate, or some other
inflammable substance.
      (3)   Before erecting any building within said area, the owner of said
property or the person, persons, or corporation erecting said building shall
file with the City Council a petition for a permit, together with plans and
specifications for said building and obtain from said Council a permit to erect
said building or structure.
   (B)   (1)   The following areas are declared to be a fire zone within the
city and no person, firm, partnership, corporation, or association of
individuals shall erect or cause to be erected any building within said area
without first applying to Commission for a permit therefor and said permit
shall be granted or refused by the City Council in its reasonable discretion.
      (2)   The streets involved and hereby declared to be in said zone and
including the entire block adjacent to said street on each side thereof, are as
follows:
         (a)   E. Main Street from the Public Square to the city limits;
         (b)   W. Main Street from the Public Square its entire distance to its
intersection with the Gallatin Road or U. S. 31-E;
         (c)   N. Court Street from the Public Square to the city limits; and
         (d)   S. Court Street from the Public Square to Commission limits and
including the Gallatin Road or U.S. 31-E from its intersection with S. Court
Street near Four Way Motor Company to the city limits.
   (C)   No person, firm, partnership, corporation, or association of
individuals shall hereafter erect any building of any kind, whether residential
or business, without first filing application with the city for a permit to
erect or have erected any such building and furnish to said city written
specifications as to the kind and character of building to be erected. The City
Council shall approve or disapprove all such applications in its reasonable
discretion, and may require modification of plans and specifications as to
materials to be used for the purpose of making any such buildings as nearly
fire-proof as possible and consistent with approved standards in the building
industry or as required by the Commonwealth Fire Marshal’s office.
(Ord. 44, passed 7-7-1928; Ord. 55, passed 4-3-1930; Ord. 298, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.06 BUILDING REQUIREMENTS IN PROXIMITY TO CHURCHES.
   It be unlawful for any person, or association of persons, firm, co-
partnership, or corporation to set up, maintain, or operate in any building or
enclosure or otherwise at any place in city within a distance of 500 feet of
any church building in said city where religious services are regularly held,
any skating rink, bowling alley, pool, or billiard hall or any form or
character of amusement, sports, or recreation at which people usually assemble
for the purpose of engaging in amusement, sports, or recreation.
(Ord. 197, passed 3-6-1947) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.07 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   (A)   A certain document, three copies of which are on file in the office of
the City Clerk, being marked and designated as the International Property
Maintenance Code, 2012 Edition, as published by the International Code Council,
be and is hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the city for
regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property,
buildings and structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and
facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that
structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the
condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and
the demolition of such existing structures as herein provided; providing for
the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of
the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Property
Maintenance Code on file in the office of the Code Enforcement Office are
hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in
this legislation, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if
any, prescribed in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   The following sections are hereby revised:
      (1)   Section 101.1. Insert: City of Scottsville, Kentucky.
      (2)   Section 103.5. Insert: all applicable fees as promulgated, as
amended from time to time, by the Scottsville Planning and Zoning Commission
and/or the City of Scottsville, Kentucky.
      (3)   Section 112.4. Insert: Failure to comply. Any person who shall
continue any work after having been served with a stop work order, except such
work as that person is directed to perform to
remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable to a fine of not less
than $500 or more than $1,000.
      (4)   Section 302.4. Insert: 12 inches.
      (5)   Section 304.14. Insert: May 1, October 31.
      (6)   Section 602.3. Insert: September 1, May 30.
      (7)   Section 602.4. Insert: September 1, May 30.
   (C)   Nothing in this legislation or in the Property Maintenance Code hereby
adopted shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding impending in any
court, or any rights acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or causes of
action acquired or existing, under any act or ordinance hereby repealed of this
law; nor shall any just or legal right or remedy of any character be lost,
impaired or affected by this legislation.
(Ord. 814-17, passed 3-13-2017)
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 92
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
150.04, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction of the same,
shall be punished by the levying of a fine of not less than $10, nor more than
$100, and each day that a building constructed after the effective date of this
section remains in existence in violation of §
150.04, shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   (1)   Any person violating of the provisions of §
150.05(A) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall
be fined not less than $5, nor more than $100. Each day any building or
structure which is erected or built in violation of §
150.05(B) remains standing, it shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or association of
individuals erecting or causing to be erected any building in violation of §
150.05(B) shall be fined not lass than $5, nor more than $15 for each offense
and each day used in the erection of said building shall be construed as a
separate offense and in addition thereto. The City Council reserves the right
to declare any such building erected in violation of §
150.05(B) to be a nuisance and to authorized to institute legal action to
require the removal or dismantling of said building.
   (D)   Any person, firm, association of persons, co-partnership, or
corporation found guilty of violation of §
150.06 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and punished by a fine of not
less than $25, nor more than $50 for each offense.
(Ord. 44, passed 7-7-1928; Ord. 55, passed 4-3-1930; Ord. 197, passed 3-6-1947;
Ord. 298, passed - -; Ord. 526, passed - -)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Statutory authorization
   
151.02   Findings of fact
   
151.03   Statement of purpose
   
151.04   Objectives
   
151.05   Definitions
   
151.06   Lands to which chapter applies
   
151.07   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
151.08   Establishment of development permit
   
151.09   Compliance
   
151.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.11   Interpretation
   
151.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
151.13   Enforcement and violation
   
151.14   Appeals and variance procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.25   General construction standards
   
151.26   Specific standards
   
151.27   Standards for streams without established base flood elevation
(unnumbered Z Zones) and/or floodways
   
151.28   Standards for shallow flooding zones
   
151.29   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
151.30   Standards for accessory structures in all zones beginning with the
letter ‘A’
   
151.31   Critical facilities
Administration
   
151.45   Designation of local Administrator
   
151.46   Establishment of development permit
   
151.47   Duties and responsibilities of the local Administrator
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the commonwealth has in KRS Ch. 100 delegated to local
government units the authority to adopt regulations designed to promote the
public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the
City Council, hereby adopts the following floodplain management ordinance, as
follows.
(Ord. 772-11, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 151.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increased flood height and velocity, and by the location
in flood hazard areas of uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to other lands
which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise protected from
flood damage.
(Ord. 772-11, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 151.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private loss due to flooding by
provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood height or velocity;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
areas.
(Ord. 772-11, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 151.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines; and streets and bridges
located in areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard or other flood-prone areas in such
a manner as to minimize future flood blighted areas caused by flooding;
   (G)   Ensure that potential homebuyers are on notice that property is in a
special flood hazard area; and
   (H)   Ensure that those who occupy special flood hazard area assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. 772-11, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 151.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A99 ZONE. The part of the SFHA inundated by the 100-year flood which is to
be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection system under
construction. No base flood elevations are determined.
   A ZONE. Portions of the special flood hazard area (SFHA) in which the
principle source of flooding is runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a
combination of both. In A ZONES, floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but
waves are usually not a significant threat to structures. Areas of 100-year
flood, base flood elevations, and flood hazard factors are not determined.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principle structure, the use of which is incidental
to the use of the principle structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a
minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation, and should be
designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay
sheds.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls is new construction.
   A1-30 AND AE ZONES. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 1% annual
chance flood (100-year flood). Base flood elevations (BFEs) are determined.
   AH ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where depths are between one
and three feet (usually shallow ponding). Base flood elevations are shown.
   AO ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where water depth is between
one and three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain). Flood depths are
shown.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or from the Floodplain
Administrator’s ruling on a request for a variance.
   AR/A1-A30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO, and AR/A ZONES. Special flood hazard areas
(SFHAs) that result from the de-certification of a previously accredited flood
protection system that is in the process of being restored to provide a 100-
year or greater level of flood protection. After restoration is complete, these
areas will still experience residual flooding from other flooding sources.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on a community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) where the base flood depths range from one to three
feet, there is no clearly defined channel, the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   B AND X ZONES (SHADED). Areas of the 0.2% annual chance (500-year) flood,
areas subject to the 100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot
or with contributing drainage area less than one square mile, and areas
protected by levees from the base flood.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year (also called the 100-YEAR FLOOD). BASE FLOOD is the term used
throughout this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, Al-30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH, and AR/
AO that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that has a
1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all four sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure that is principally above ground;
including a manufactured home, gas or liquid storage tank, or other human-made
facility or infrastructure. See definition for STRUCTURE.
   C AND X (UNSHADED) ZONES. Areas determined to be outside the 500-year
floodplain.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity having the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY FLOOD HAZARD AREA (CFHA). An area that has been determined by the
Floodplain Administrator (or other delegated, designated, or qualified
community official) from available technical studies, historical information,
and other available and reliable sources, which may be subject to periodic
inundation by floodwaters that can adversely affect the public health, safety,
and general welfare. Included are areas downstream from dams.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives to those communities in the regular
program to go beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to develop
extra measures for protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety or a facility which, if unusable or
unreachable because of flooding, would seriously and adversely affect the
health and safety of the public. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not
limited to: housing likely to contain occupants not sufficiently mobile to
avoid injury or death unaided during a flood; schools; nursing homes;
hospitals; police, fire, and emergency response installations, vehicles, and
equipment storage facilities; emergency operations centers likely to be called
upon before, during, and after a flood; public and private utility facilities
important to maintaining or restoring normal services before, during, and after
a flood; and those facilities or installations which produce, use, or store
volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic and/or water-reactive materials,
hazardous materials, or hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. An area in which the flood hazard is undetermined.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter walls,
piling, columns (post and piers), shear walls, or breakaway walls. (See
freeboard requirements for residential and nonresidential structures.)
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A statement certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor on the FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification that verifies a structure’s elevation and other related
information to verify compliance with this chapter.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The initial phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at subsidized
rates on all insurable structures in that community before the effective date
of the initial FIRM.
   ENCLOSURE. The portion of a structure below the base flood elevation (BFE)
used solely for parking of vehicles, limited storage, or access to the
structure.
   ENCROACHMENT. The physical advance or infringement of uses, plant growth,
fill, excavation, structures, permanent structures, or development into a
floodplain, which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1,1975, for
FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to
as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first floodplain management ordinance adopted by the city based on
specific technical base flood elevation data which established the area of
special flood hazards.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FIVE-HUNDRED-YEAR FLOOD. The flood that has a 0.2% chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any year. Areas subject to the 500-YEAR FLOOD have a moderate to
low risk of flooding.
   FLOOD, FLOODING, or FLOODWATER.
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters; the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source;
and/or mudslides (i.e., mudflows). See MUDSLIDES.
      (2)   The condition resulting from flood-related erosion. See flood-
related erosion.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated the areas of flood hazards and the regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). A map on which the boundaries of the
flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow), and flood-related erosion areas having special
hazards have been designated as Zones A, M, and/or E by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated special flood hazard areas and risk premium zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) containing
flood profiles, the flood insurance rate map (FIRM), and/or the flood boundary
floodway map (FBFM), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by floodwaters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed by a NFIP participating
community to administer and enforce the floodplain management ordinances.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing
natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited to, emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management ordinances, and
open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances (such as grading and erosion control), and other applications of
police power, which control development in flood-prone areas. This term
describes federal, commonwealth, and/or local regulations, in any combination
thereof, which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOOD-PROOFING CERTIFICATE. A certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect, on a FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification stating that a nonresidential structure, together with attendant
utilities and sanitary facilities is water-tight to a specified design
elevation with walls that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water
and all structural components are capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated
debris impact forces.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. Also
referred to as the REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. The area of the floodplain on either side of the regulatory
floodway where encroachment may be permitted without additional hydraulic and/
or hydrologic analysis.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood. FREEBOARD must be applied not
just to the elevation of the lowest floor or flood-proofing level, but also to
the level of protection provided to all components of the structure, such as
building utilities, HVAC components, and the like.
   FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION.
      (1)   As related in §
151.14, means that the variance granted must not cause fraud on or
victimization of the public. In examining this requirement, the City Council
will consider the fact that every newly constructed structure adds to
government responsibilities and remains a part of the community for 50 to 100
years.
      (2)   Structures that are permitted to be constructed below the base
flood elevation are subject during all those years to increased risk of damage
from floods, while future owners of the property and the community as a whole
are subject to all the costs, inconvenience, danger, and suffering that those
increased flood damages may incur. In addition, future owners may purchase the
property, unaware that it is subject to potential flood damage, and can be
insured only at very high flood insurance rates.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE FACILITY. A facility, structure, or other
development, which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located
or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only a docking or
port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
shipbuilding, ship repair, or seafood processing facilities. The term does not
include long-term storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   GOVERNING BODY. The local governing unit, i.e., county or municipality that
is empowered to adopt and implement ordinances to provide for the public
health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry.
   HAZARD POTENTIAL. The possible adverse incremental consequences that result
from the release of water or stored contents due to failure of a dam or
misoperation of a dam or appurtenances. The hazard potential classification of
a dam does not reflect in any way the current condition of a dam and its
appurtenant structures (e.g., safety, structural integrity, flood routing
capacity).
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a commonwealth inventory of historic places
in states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved commonwealth program as determined by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC).
      (1)   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE coverage provides for the payment of a
claim for the cost to comply with commonwealth or community floodplain
management laws or ordinances after a direct physical loss by flood. When a
building covered by a standard flood insurance policy under the NFIP sustains a
loss and the commonwealth or community declares the building to be
substantially or repetitively damaged, ICC will help pay up to $30,000 for the
cost to elevate, flood-proof, demolish, or remove the building.
      (2)   ICC coverage is available on residential and nonresidential
buildings (this category includes public or government buildings, such as
schools, libraries, and municipal buildings) insured under the NFIP.
   KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES OR KRS 151.250-PLANS FOR DAMS, LEVEES, AND THE
LIKE, TO BE APPROVED AND PERMIT ISSUED BY CABINET (ENVIRONMENTAL AND PUBLIC
PROTECTION CABINET).
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person and no city,
county, or other political subdivision of the commonwealth, including levee
districts, drainage districts, flood control districts or systems, or similar
bodies, shall commence the construction, reconstruction, relocation, or
improvement of any dam, embankment, levee, dike, bridge, fill, or other
obstruction (except those constructed by the Department of Highways) across or
along any stream, or in the floodway of any stream, unless the plans and
specifications for such work have been submitted by the person or political
subdivision responsible for the construction, reconstruction, or improvement
and such plans and specifications have been approved in writing by the Cabinet
and a permit issued; however, the Cabinet by regulation may exempt those dams,
embankments, or other obstructions, which are not of such size or type as to
require approval by the Cabinet in the interest of safety or retention of water
supply.
      (2)   No person, city, county, or other political subdivision of the
commonwealth shall commence the filing of any area with earth, debris, or any
other material, or raise the level of any area in any manner, or place a
building, barrier or obstruction of any sort on any area located adjacent to a
river or stream or in the floodway of the stream so that such filling, raising,
or obstruction will in any way affect the flow of water in the channel or in
the floodway of the stream unless plans and specifications for such work have
been submitted to and approved by the Cabinet and a permit issued as required
in division (1) above.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (3) is intended to give the Cabinet any
jurisdiction or control over the construction, reconstruction, improvement,
enlargement, maintenance, or operation of any drainage district, ditch, or
system established for agricultural purposes, or to require approval of the
same except where such obstruction of the stream or floodway is determined by
the Cabinet to be a detriment or hindrance to the beneficial use of water
resources in the area, and the person or political subdivision in control
thereof so notified.
      (4)   The Department for Natural Resources, through KRS Ch. 350, shall
have exclusive jurisdiction over KRS Ch. 151 concerning the regulation of dams,
levees, embankments, dikes, bridges, fills, or other obstructions across or
along any stream or in the floodway of any stream which structures are
permitted under KRS Ch. 350 for surface coal mining operations.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC).
      (1)   An official FEMA determination, by letter, to amend or revise
effective flood insurance rate maps, flood boundary, and floodway maps, and
flood insurance studies.
      (2)   LOMCs include the following categories.
         (a)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical
data showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated SFHA. A
LOMA amends the current effective FIRM and establishes that a specific property
is not located in a SFHA.
         (b)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical
data that, usually due to human-made changes, shows changes to flood zones,
flood elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric
features.
         (c)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION. FILL (LOMR-F). A determination that a
structure or parcel has been elevated by properly placed engineered fill above
the BFE and is, therefor, excluded from the SHFA.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM.
      (1)   A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees, and
associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
      (2)   For a LEVEE SYSTEM to be recognized, the following criteria must be
met:
         (a)   All closure devices or mechanical systems for internal drainage,
whether manual or automatic, must be operated in accordance with an officially
adopted operation manual (a copy of which must be provided to FEMA by the
operator when levee or drainage system recognition is being sought or revised);
and
         (b)   All operations must be under the jurisdiction of a federal or
commonwealth agency, an agency created by federal or commonwealth law, or an
agency of a community participating in the NFB.
   LIMITED STORAGE. An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items which can withstand exposure to the elements and have low
flood damage potential. Such an area must be of flood-resistant material, void
of utilities except for essential lighting, and cannot be temperature
controlled.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The elevation of the sidewalk, patio, deck support,
or basement entryway immediately next to the structure and after the completion
of construction. It does not include earth that is emplaced for aesthetic or
landscape reasons around a foundation wall. It does include natural ground or
properly compacted fill that comprises a component of a structure’s foundation
system.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area including
basement. An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, structure access, or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a structure’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided, that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected or attached to the required utilities. The
term also includes park trailers, travel trailers, and similar transportable
structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to
be improved property. The term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a
“recreational vehicle” (see “recreational vehicle”).
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP. The flood hazard boundary map (FHBM) or the flood insurance rate map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The four-digit number on a flood map, followed by a letter
suffix, assigned by FEMA. The first four digits represent the map panel. The
letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised.
(The letter ‘A’ is not used by FEMA; the letter ‘B’ is the first revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The structure value, excluding the land (as agreed between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of structure (actual cash value), or
adjusted assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL (MSL). The average height of the sea for all stages of the
tide. For the purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the MSL is used
as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain as
shown on a community’s FIRM. For purposes of this chapter, the term is
synonymous with either National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) 1929 or North
American Vertical Datum (NAVD) 1988.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures; and to minimize the costs of
disaster response and recovery.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e.., MUDFLOW). Describes a condition where there is a river,
flow, or inundation of liquid mud down a hillside, usually as a result of a
dual condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water
on the ground, preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide
is in progress, and will be recognized as such by the Floodplain Administrator
only if the MUDFLOW, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage
that occurs.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT. The operation of and overall
program of corrective and preventative measures for reducing mudslide (i.e.,
MUDFLOW) damage, including, but not limited to, emergency preparedness plans,
mudslide control works, and floodplain management regulations.
   MUDSLIDE- (i.e., MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA. An area with land surfaces and slopes
of unconsolidated material where the history, geology, and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used as the vertical datum on the older FIRMs. Refer to
FIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the city’s floodplain management regulations
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the city’s adopted floodplain management ordinances.
   NONRESIDENTIAL. Structures that are not designed for human habitation,
including, but not limited to, small business concerns, churches, schools, farm
structures (including grain bins and silos), pool houses, clubhouses,
recreational strictures, mercantile structures, agricultural and industrial
structures, warehouses, and hotels or motels with normal room rentals for less
than six months’ duration.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD). As corrected in 1988, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used on the newer FIRM’S and digitally referenced FIRMS
(DFIRMs). (Refer to FIRM or DFIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes but is not limited to any dam, wall, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, structure, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard, or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, due to its location, its propensity to snare or
collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being carried
downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED-YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD) (SEE BASE FLOOD). The flood that has
a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any
flood zone that begins with the letter ‘A’ is subject to the 100-year flood.
Over the life of a 30-year loan, there is a 26% chance of experiencing such a
flood with the SFHA.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. A community that voluntarily elects to participate
in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management regulations that
are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement that started
on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or after
December 31, 1974, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement, which
started on or before December 31, 1974, or before the effective date of the
initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A means of formally notifying participating NFIP communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations. During periods of probation, each insurance
policy is subject to a $50 surcharge.
   PROGRAM DEFICIENCY. A defect in a community’s floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management standards or of the standards of 44 C.F.R. §§
60.3, 60.4, 60.5, and/or 60.6.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to safety or health
of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons,
or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of
any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of a community’s participation in the NFIP where
more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and higher
amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
See BASE FLOOD.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. The process by which a community brings a structure or
other development into compliance with commonwealth or local floodplain
management regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impact of
noncompliance. Reduced impact may include protecting the structure or other
affected development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement
provisions of the ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations,
or reducing commonwealth or federal financing exposure with regard to the
structure or other development.
   REPAIR. The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing structure.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two or
more separate occasions during a ten-year period where the value of damages
equals or exceeds an average of 50% of the current value of the structure,
beginning on the date when the damage first occurred, or, four or more flood
losses of $1,000 or more over the life of the structure, or, three or more
flood losses over the life of the structure that are equal to or greater than
the current value of the structure.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   SECTION 1316. The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new or renewal flood insurance coverage shall be
provided for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a
duly constituted commonwealth or local zoning authority or other authorized
public body to be in violation of commonwealth or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances that are intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land
development or occupancy in flood-prone areas.
   SHEET FLOW AREA. See AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The portion of the floodplain subject to
inundation by the base flood and/or flood-related erosion hazards as shown on a
FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AE, Al, A30, AH, AO, or AR.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development. The date a building permit is issued, provided, the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
placement, or other improvement is within 180 days of the permit date. The
ACTUAL START means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
(including manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings, the installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation, or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; the installation on
the property of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground,
including manufactured homes, gas or liquid storage tanks, or other human-made
facilities or infrastructures. See BUILDING.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division, for the purposes of sale, lease, or development,
either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms, and
conditions of any tract or parcel of land into two or more lots or parcels.
   SUBROGATION. An action brought by FEMA to recover insurance money paid out
where all or part of the damage can be attributed to acts or omissions by a
community or other third party.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement
of a structure, taking place during a one-year period in which the cumulative
percentage of improvements equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure before the start of construction of the improvement. This term
includes structures which have incurred substantial damage, regardless of the
actual repair work performed.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of commonwealth or local health, sanitary, or safety code
specifications which have been identified by the local Code Enforcement
Official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions;
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure; provided, that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure; or
         (c)   Any building that has been damaged from any source or is
categorized as repetitive loss.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS.
Repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of the streets,
utilities, and pads equaling or exceeding 50% of the value of the streets,
utilities, and pads before the repair, reconstruction, or improvement
commenced.
   SUSPENSION. Removal of a participating community from the NFIP for failure
to enact and/or enforce floodplain management regulations required for
participation in the NFIP. New or renewal flood insurance policies are no
longer available in suspended communities.
   UTILITIES. Includes electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment.
   VARIANCE. Relief from some or all of the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. Failure of a structure or other development to fully comply with
this chapter. A structure or other development without the elevation
certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which water flows at least periodically.
   WATERSHED. All the area within a geographic boundary from which water,
sediments, dissolved materials, and other transportable materials drain or are
carried by water to a common outlet, such as a point on a larger stream, lake,
or underlying aquifer.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B Zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% probability of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood) in any year. Unshaded X ZONES (C Zones on older
FIRMS) designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is
less than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a flood hazard boundary map or a flood
insurance rate map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
(Ord. 772-11, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 151.06 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas (SFHA), areas
applicable to KRS 151.250 and, as determined by the Floodplain Administrator or
other delegated, designated, or qualified community official as determined by
the City Council from available technical studies, historical information, and
other available and reliable sources, areas within the jurisdiction of the City
Council which may be subject to periodic inundation by floodwaters that can
adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens
of the city.
(Ord. 772-11, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 151.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in the flood insurance study (FIS) for the county,
dated July 4, 2011, with the accompanying flood insurance rate maps (FIRMs),
other supporting data, and any subsequent amendments thereto, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as
fully as if set out at length herein and declared to be a part of these
regulations by the city, and for those land areas acquired by the city through
annexation.
   (B)   This FIS and attendant mapping is the minimum area of applicability of
this chapter and may be supplemented by studies for other areas which allow
implementation of this chapter and which are recommended to the City Council by
the Floodplain Administrator and are enacted by City Council pursuant to
statutes governing land use management regulations.
   (C)   The FIS and/or FIRM are permanent records of the city and are on file
and available for review by the public during regular business hours at City
Hall.
(Ord. 772-11, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 151.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or other
development begins within any special flood hazard area established in §
151.46. Application for a development permit shall include a $50 fee and shall
be made on forms furnished by Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following: plans in
duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, fill,
storage of materials, drainage facilities; and the location of the foregoing.
Endorsement of Floodplain Administrator is required before a state floodplain
construction permit can be processed. Specifically, the following information
is required.
(Ord. 772-11, passed 4-11-2011; Ord. 813-17, passed 2-13-2017)
§ 151.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable commonwealth regulations. Violation of the
requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing in this
chapter shall prevent the City Council from taking such lawful action as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 772-11, passed 4-11-2011) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions; however, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 772-11, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 151.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
commonwealth statutes.
(Ord. 772-11, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 151.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   (1)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is
considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and
engineering considerations.
      (2)   Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights
may be increased by human-made or natural causes.
      (3)   This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of special
flood hazard or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or
flood damage.
   (B)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the City
Council. Any officer or employee, the commonwealth, the Federal Insurance
Administration, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency, thereof for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 772-11, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 151.13 ENFORCEMENT AND VIOLATION.
   (A)   Civil offense. If, at any time, development occurs which is not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying
with the terms and conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any
approved modifications, such development shall constitute a civil offense.
   (B)   Notice of violation.
      (1)   If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or agent of the
Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and conditions of
a floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications thereof, a duly
authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator shall issue a notice to the
person responsible for the violation and/or the property owner, stating the
facts of the offense or violation, the section of this ordnance and/or of the
permit violated, when it occurred, how the violation is to be remedied to bring
the development into conformity with this chapter or with the approved permit,
and within what period of time the remedy is to occur, which period of time
shall be reasonable and shall be determined by the nature of the violation, and
whether or not it creates a nuisance or hazard.
      (2)   The remedy may include an order to stop work on the development.
The notice shall also state that a citation may be forthcoming in the event
that the requested remedies and corrective actions are not taken, which
citation will request a civil monetary fine, and shall state the maximum fine
which could be imposed. See §
151.99.
   (C)   Notice of citation.
      (1)   If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or agent of the
Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter, including obtaining or complying with the terms and conditions of
a floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications thereof, a duly
authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator may issue a citation to the
offender stating the violation, prior notices of violation issued, how the
violation is to be remedied to bring the development into conformity with this
chapter or with the approved permit, and within what period of time the remedy
is to occur, and what penalty or penalties are recommended.
      (2)   When a citation is issued, the person to whom the citation is
issued shall respond to the citation within seven days of the date the citation
is issued by either carrying out the remedies and corrections set forth in the
citation, paying the civil fine set forth in the citation, or requesting a
hearing before the governing body. If the person to whom the citation is issued
does not respond to the citation within seven days, that person shall be deemed
to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a violation
occurred shall be considered final.
(Ord. 772-11, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 151.14 APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Nature of variances.
      (1)   (a)   The variance criteria set forth in this section are based on
the general principle of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of
property and are not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for a parcel
of property with physical characteristics so unusual that complying with the
requirements of this chapter would create an exceptional hardship to the
applicant or the surrounding property owners.
         (b)   The characteristics must be unique to the property and not be
shared by adjacent parcels. The unique characteristic must pertain to the land
itself, not to the structure, its inhabitants, or the property owners.
      (2)   (a)   It is the duty of the City Council to help protect its
citizens from flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the
cost of insuring a structure built below flood level is so serious that
variances from the flood elevation or from other requirements in the flood
ordinance are quite rare.
         (b)   The long-term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and
damage can only be met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the
variance guidelines provided in this chapter are more detailed and contain
multiple provisions that must be met before a variance can be properly granted.
The criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives
other than a variance are more appropriate.
   (B)   Designation of Variance and Appeal Board. The City Council shall
establish an Appeal Board consisting of the City-County Board of Adjustment.
   (C)   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board.
      (1)   The Appeal Board shall hear and decide requests for variances from
the requirements of this chapter and appeals of decisions or determinations
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the local Circuit Court, as provided in
Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (D)   Appeals/variance procedures. In passing upon such applications, the
Appeal Board shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors,
all standards specified in other sections of this chapter, and the:
      (1)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
      (2)   Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
      (4)   Importance to the community of the services provided by the
proposed facility;
      (5)   Necessity that the facility be located on a waterfront, in the case
of functionally dependent facility;
      (6)   Availability of alternative locations which are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   Relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
      (10)   Expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
      (11)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, water systems, streets, and bridges.
   (E)   Conditions for variances. Upon consideration of the factors listed
above and the purposes of this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway
if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. MINIMUM NECESSARY means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation
from the requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to
an elevation requirement, this means the City Council need not grant permission
for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the
applicant proposes, but only to that elevation which the City Council believes
will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the local ordinance.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. In the instance of an historical structure, a determination shall be
made that the variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief and not
destroy the historic character and design of the structure.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant (as defined in this chapter); and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood height, additional threats to public safety, cause
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance (as defined in the definition
section under “public safety and nuisance”), cause fraud or victimization of
the public (as defined in § 151.05), or conflict with existing local laws or
ordinances.
      (5)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted, shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
      (6)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) and the Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) upon request.
      (7)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement, and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use; provided, that the provisions of division (D) above
are satisfied and that the structure or other development is protected by
methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and does not result
in additional threats to public safety and does not create a public nuisance.
   (F)   Variance notification. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted
shall be given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the office of the City Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land;
and
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such
variances issued in the community’s biennial report submission to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
   (G)   Historic structures. Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of “historic structures” (see definition in § 150.05) upon
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as an historic structure and the variance is
the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure.
   (H)   No impact certification with the floodway. Variances shall not be
issued within any mapped or designated floodway if any increase in flood levels
during the base flood discharge would result.
(Ord. 772-11, passed 4-11-2011)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.25 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy;
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable commonwealth requirements for
resisting wind forces;
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air condition equipment,
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   (F)   Within Zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures;
   (G)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   (H)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters;
   (I)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall
meet the requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter; and
   (K)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter,
shall be undertaken only if said nonconformity is not furthered, extended, or
replaced.
(Ord. 772-11, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 151.26 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation data have been
provided, as set forth in §
151.07, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest
floor; including basement, mechanical equipment, and ductwork elevated no lower
than two feet above the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation perimeter
walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate
automatic equalization of hydrostatic flood forces on walls shall be provided
in accordance with the standards of division (C) below.
      (1)   In an AO Zone, the lowest floor shall be elevated above the highest
adjacent grade to a height equal to or higher than the depth number specified
in feet on the FIRM, or elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent
grade if no depth number is specified.
      (2)   (a)   In an A Zone, where no technical data has been produced by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Floodplain Administrator will
determine the method by which base flood elevations are determined.
         (b)   Methods include, but are not limited to, detailed hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses, use of existing data available from other sources,
approximate methods , use of historical data, best supportable and reasonable
judgment in the event no data can be produced. The lowest floor shall be
elevated no lower than two feet above such base flood elevation. 401 KAR Ch. 4,
Regulation 060, Section 5(5)a, states as a part of the technical requirements
for a state floodplain permit: The applicant shall provide cross sections for
determining floodway boundaries (and thereby base flood elevations) at any
proposed construction site where FEMA maps are not available.
         (c)   All cross sections shall be referenced to mean sea level and
shall have vertical error tolerances of no more than + five-tenths (0.5) foot.
Cross section elevations shall be taken at those points which represent
significant breaks in slope and at points where hydraulic characteristics of
the base floodplain change. Each cross section shall extend across the entire
base floodplain and shall be in the number and at the locations specified by
the Cabinet.
         (d)   If necessary to ensure that significant flood damage will not
occur, the Cabinet may require additional cross sections or specific site
elevations which extend beyond those needed for making routine regulatory
floodway boundary calculations.
      (3)   (a)   In all other zones, elevated two feet above the base flood
elevation.
         (b)   Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the
lowest floor including basement shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor, and verified by the community building inspection
department to be properly elevated. Such certification and verification shall
be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or nonresidential structure
(including manufactured homes used for nonresidential purposes) shall be
elevated to conform with division (A) above or together with attendant utility
and sanitary facilities:
      (1)   Be flood-proofed to an elevation two feet above the level of the
base flood elevation so that the structure is water-tight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy and debris;
      (3)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this division (B) are satisfied. Such certification along with
the design and operational maintenance plans shall be provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
      (4)   Manufactured homes shall meet the standards in division (D) below;
or
      (5)   (a)   All new construction and substantial improvement with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements) that are usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access, or storage, and which are
subject to flooding, shall be constructed of flood-resistant materials below an
elevation two feet above the base flood elevation, and, shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwater.
         (b)   Opening for meeting this requirement must meet or exceed the
standards of division (C) below.
   (C)   Elevated structures. New construction or substantial improvements of
elevated structures on columns, posts, or pilings that include fully enclosed
areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the lowest floor
shall be designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow for
the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls.
      (1)   Openings for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or higher
than the exterior foundation grade); and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
      (2)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
      (3)   The interior portion of such enclosed areas shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
   (D)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   (a)   1.   All new or substantially improved manufactured homes
placed on sites located within A, A1-30, AO, AH, and AE on the community’s
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) must meet all the requirements for new
construction, including elevation and anchoring.
            2.   Locations include:
               a.   Individual lots or parcels;
               b.   Expansions to existing manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
               c.   New manufactured home parks or subdivisions;
               d.   Substantially improved manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
               e.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; or
               f.   An existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site
upon which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of
a flood.
         (b)   All manufactured homes must be:
            1.   Elevated on a permanent foundation;
            2.   Have its lowest floor elevated no lower than two feet above
the level of the base flood elevation; and
            3.   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
      (2)   Except manufactured homes that have incurred substantial damage as
a result of a flood, all manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in
an existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated so that the
manufactured home is securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, so that either the:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower
than two feet above the level of the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less
than 36 inches in height above the highest adjacent grade.
      (3)   (a)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites located within A,
A1-30, AO, AH, and AE on the community’s flood insurance rate map (FIRM) must
either:
            1.   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
            2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
            3.   Meet the permit requirements for new construction of this
chapter, including anchoring and elevation requirements for manufactured homes.
         (b)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is
licensed and insured in accordance with the state motor vehicle regulations, is
on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions.
   (E)   Floodways.
      (1)   Located within areas of special flood hazard established in §
151.07, are areas designated as floodways.
      (2)   Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the
velocity of floodwaters which carry debris, potential projectiles, and has
erosion potential, the following provisions shall apply:
         (a)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other developments unless certification (with
supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in the base
flood elevation levels during occurrence of base flood discharge; and
         (b)   If this division (E) is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements and other proposed new development shall comply with
all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this subchapter.
   (F)   Standards for utilities.
      (1)   All new and replacement water supply and sanitary sewage systems
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate:
         (a)   Infiltration of flood waters into the systems; and
         (b)   Discharge from the systems into flood waters.
      (2)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flood.
(Ord. 772-11, passed 4-11-2011; Ord. 813-17, passed 2-13-2017)
§ 151.27 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION
(UNNUMBERED Z ZONES) AND/OR FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
151.07, where streams exist but where no base flood data has been provided or
where base flood data has been provided without floodways, the following
provisions apply.
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures shall be
located within special flood hazard areas, unless certification by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community. The engineering
certification should be supported by technical data that conforms to standard
hydraulic engineering principles.
   (B)   New construction or substantial improvements of structures shall be
elevated or flood-proofed to elevations established in accordance with §
151.07.
(Ord. 772-11, passed 4-11-2011; Ord. 813-17, passed 2-13-2017)
§ 151.28 STANDARDS FOR SHALLOW FLOODING ZONES.
   (A)   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
151.07 are areas designated as shallow flooding areas.
   (B)   (1)   These areas have flood hazards associated with base flood depths
of one to three feet, where a clearly defined channel does not exist and the
water path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate; therefore, the
following provisions apply:
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall:
         (a)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified on the
flood insurance rate map above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO, if no
flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
         (b)   All new construction and substantial improvements of
nonresidential structures shall:
            1.   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified
on the flood insurance rate map, above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO,
if no flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade; and
            2.   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely flood-proofed either to the base flood elevation or above or, in
Zone AO, to or above the specified flood depth, plus a minimum of one foot so
that any space below that level is water-tight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of
buoyancy. Certification is required as stated in §
151.26(B).
(Ord. 772-11, passed 4-11-2011; Ord. 813-17, passed 2-13-2017)
§ 151.29 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard area and the
elevation of the base flood and be consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   In areas where base flood elevation and floodway data is not
available, base flood elevation and floodway data for subdivision proposals and
other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and subdivisions)
greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is the lesser, shall be provided.
   (E)   All subdivision plans will include the elevation of proposed structure
(s) and lowest adjacent grade. If the site is filled above the base flood
elevation, the lowest floor, and lowest adjacent grade elevations shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 772-11, passed 4-11-2011; Ord. 813-17, passed 2-13-2017)
§ 151.30 STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES IN ALL ZONES BEGINNING WITH THE
LETTER ‘A’.
   For all accessory structures in special flood hazard areas designated ‘A’,
the following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   Structure must be non-habitable;
   (B)   Must be anchored to resist floatation and lateral movements;
   (C)   Must be provided with flood openings in accordance with §
151.26(C);
   (D)   Must be built of flood-resistant materials two feet above the base
flood elevation;
   (E)   Must elevate utilities two feet above the base flood elevation;
   (F)   Can only be used for storage or parking; and
   (G)   Cannot be modified for a different use after permitting.
(Ord. 772-11, passed 4-11-2011; Ord. 813-17, passed 2-13-2017)
§ 151.31 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent
possible, located outside the limits of the SFHA (100-year floodplain).
      (2)   Construction of new critical facilities shall not be permissible
within the floodway; however, they may be permissible within the SFHA if no
feasible alternative site is available.
   (B)   Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the lowest
floor elevated one foot or more above the level of the base flood elevation at
the site. Flood-proofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that
toxic substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters.
   (C)   Access routes elevated to or above the level of the base flood
elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 772-11, passed 4-11-2011; Ord. 813-17, passed 2-13-2017)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.45 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Council hereby appoints the Mayor or designee to administer,
implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter by granting or denying
development permits in accordance with its provisions, and is chapter referred
to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 772-11, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 151.46 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   A development permit shall be obtained before any construction
or other development begins within any special flood hazard area established in
§
151.07. Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by Floodplain Administrator prior to any development activities, and may
include, but not be limited to, the following: plans in duplicate drawn to
scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in
question; existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage
facilities; and the location of the foregoing.
      (2)   Endorsement of local Administrator is required before a
commonwealth floodplain construction permit can be processed.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required.
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level (MSL) of the
proposed lowest floor (including basement) of all structures in Zone A and
elevation of highest adjacent grade;
         (b)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure will be flood-proofed;
         (c)   All appropriate certifications from a registered professional
engineer or architect that the nonresidential flood-proofed structure will meet
the flood-proofing criteria in §§
151.26(B) and
151.28(B)(2)(b); and
         (d)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      (2)   Construction stage.
         (a)   Upon placement of the lowest floor, and before construction
continues, or flood- proofing by whatever construction means, it shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator and to the
commonwealth a certification of the elevation of the lowest floor or flood-
proofed elevation, as built, in relation to mean sea level.
         (b)   In AE, A1-30, AH, and A Zones where the community has adopted a
regulatory base flood elevation, said certification shall be prepared by or
under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional
engineer and certified by same.
         (c)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
certified professional engineer or architect. Any continued work undertaken
prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder’s
risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor and flood-
proofing elevation survey data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review
shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further
progressive work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or
failure to make said corrections required hereby, shall be cause to issue a
stop-work order for the project.
(Ord. 772-11, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 151.47 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or staff is hereby appointed,
authorized, and directed to administer, implement, and enforce the provisions
of this chapter. The Floodplain Administrator is further authorized to render
interpretations of this chapter, which are consistent with its spirit and
purpose by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to the following.
      (1)   Permit review. Review all development permits to ensure that:
         (a)   Permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   All other required commonwealth and federal permits have been
obtained; proposed development shall be reviewed to assure that all necessary
permits have been received from those governmental agencies from which approval
is required by federal or commonwealth law, including § 404 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334; and
         (c)   Flood damages will be reduced in the best possible manner;
         (d)   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of affected watercourses. For purposes of this chapter, ADVERSELY
AFFECTS means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
      (2)   Review and use of any other base flood date. When base flood
elevation data has not been provided in accordance with §
151.07, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal or
commonwealth agency, or other source, in order to administer §§
151.25 through
151.31. Any such information shall be submitted to the City Council for
adoption.
      (3)   Notification of other agencies.
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities, the Commonwealth Division of Water,
and any other federal and/or commonwealth agencies with statutory or regulatory
authority prior to any alteration or relocation of the watercourse;
         (b)   Submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Insurance
Administration, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA); and
         (c)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse is maintained.
      (4)   Documentation of floodplain development. Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed the following:
         (a)   Certification required by §
151.26(A) (lowest floor elevations) as shown on a completed and certified
elevation certificate. Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to
mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
151.46(B)(2);
         (b)   Certification required by §
151.26(B) (elevation or flood-proofing of nonresidential structures) as shown
on a completed and certified flood-proofing certificate. Verify and record the
actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the new or
substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed, in accordance with §
151.46(B);
         (c)   Certification required by §
151.26(C) (elevated structures);
         (d)   Certification of elevation required by §
151.29(A) (subdivision standards);
         (e)   Certification required by §
151.26(E) (floodway encroachments);
         (f)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
not diminished;
         (g)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance; and
         (h)   Take action to remedy violations of this chapter as specified in
§
151.13.
      (5)   Map, determinations.
         (a)   Make interpretations where needed, as to the exact location of
the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions.
         (b)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation. The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be
given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
151.14(C)(2).
            1.   When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been
provided in accordance with §
151.07, then the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonable
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
commonwealth, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
151.25 through
151.31.
            2.   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure,
the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect, in accordance with §
151.26(C) a flood-proofing certificate.
            3.   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall
be maintained in the office of the Floodplain Administrator and shall be open
for public inspection.
      (6)   Right of entry.
         (a)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the Administrator has reasonable cause
to believe that there exists in any structure or upon any premises any
condition or ordinance violation which makes such building, structure, or
premises unsafe, dangerous, or hazardous, the Administrator may enter such
building, structure, or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or
perform any duty imposed upon the Administrator by this chapter.
         (b)   If such structure or premises are occupied, he or she shall
first present proper credentials and request entry. If such building,
structure, or premises are unoccupied, he or she shall first make a reasonable
effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control of such
request entry.
         (c)   If entry is refused, the Administrator shall have recourse to
every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
         (d)   When the Administrator shall have first obtained a proper
inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner or
occupant or any other persons having charge, care, or control of any building,
structure, or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made as
provided in this chapter, to promptly permit entry therein by the Administrator
for the purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this chapter.
      (7)   Stop-work orders. Upon notice from the Administrator, work on any
building, structure, or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in writing and
shall be given to the owner of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the
person doing the work, and shall state the conditions under which work may he
or she resumed.
      (8)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Administrator may revoke a permit or approval, issued under
the provisions of this chapter, in case there has been any false statement or
misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or plans on which
the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Administrator may revoke a permit upon determination by the
Administrator that the construction, erection, alteration, repair, moving,
demolition, installation, or replacement of the structure for which the permit
was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the provisions of
this chapter.
      (9)   Liability.
         (1)   Any officer, employee, or member of the Floodplain
Administrator’s staff, charged with the enforcement of this chapter, acting for
the applicable governing authority in the discharge of his or her duties, shall
not thereby render himself or herself personally liable, and is hereby relieved
from all personal liability, for any damage that may accrue to persons or
property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his
or her duties.
         (b)   Any suit brought against any officer, employee, or member
because of such act performed by him or her in the enforcement of any provision
of this chapter shall be defended by the Department of Law until the final
termination of the proceedings.
      (10)   Expiration of floodplain construction permit. A floodplain
construction permit, and all provisions contained therein, shall expire if the
holder of a floodplain construction permit has not commenced construction
within 180 calendar days from the date of its issuance by the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. 772-11, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with granting of a variance or special exceptions,
shall constitute a misdemeanor civil offense. Any person who violates this
chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined no less than $100 or imprisoned for not more than ten days,
or both, and in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the
case.
   (B)   Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. Nothing contained in this chapter shall prevent the Floodplain
Administrator from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent
or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 772-11, passed 4-11-2011)
CHAPTER 152: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
152.01   Adoption of City-County Joint Planning and Zoning Commission’s 1997
Comprehensive Plan update
§ 152.01 ADOPTION OF CITY-COUNTY JOINT PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION’S 1997
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN UPDATE.
   The 1997 Comprehensive Plan Update, including all of the elements of the
statement of goals and objectives therein, as promulgated and adopted by the
Joint Planning and Zoning Commission of the city and the county, having been
reviewed and considered, shall be adopted and incorporated as part of this code
of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein by the City Council in
accordance with KRS 100.193.
(Ord. 660-98, passed 2-10-1998)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Zoning affects every structure or use
   
153.002   Non-conformities
   
153.003   Street frontage required
   
153.004   Minimum lot area
   
153.005   Rear dwellings prohibited
   
153.006   Plans filed; building permits
   
153.007   Reduction in lot area prohibited
   
153.008   Off-street automobile storage
   
153.009   Off-street loading and unloading space
   
153.010   Obstructions to vision at street intersections and driveways
prohibited
   
153.011   Accessory building regulations
   
153.012   Building line setback
   
153.013   Sanitary provisions
   
153.014   Lot width
   
153.015   Temporary construction trailers
   
153.016   Home occupation
   
153.017   Manufactured home permits
Districts and Map
   
153.025   Establishment of districts
   
153.026   Official zoning maps
   
153.027   Rules for interpretation of zoning district boundaries
   
153.028   Severability
   
153.029   Lawful presumption
   
153.030   Lot of record
   
153.031   Transitional provisions
   
153.032   Provisions related to definitions and interpretation
   
153.033   Rules for measurements
General Definitions
   
153.040   Definitions
   
153.041   Exception of height limits
   
153.042   Horizontal property, rules and regulations
Agricultural District (AO)
   
153.050   Uses permitted
   
153.051   Conditional uses
   
153.052   Prohibited uses
   
153.053   Accessory uses permitted
   
153.054   Heights, lot areas, and widths, yard and courts
   
153.055   Residences
Residential Districts (SF, MF and GF)
   
153.065   Uses permitted
   
153.066   Conditional uses
   
153.067   Accessory buildings
   
153.068   Multi-family building requirements
   
153.069   Side and rear yards
   
153.070   Special accessory uses
   
153.071   Uses prohibited
   
153.072   Required lot area and width
   
153.073   Approval of multi-family and group family units
   
153.074   Access
   
153.075   Common property ownership and private streets
Manufactured Home Residential District (MH-1)
   
153.085   Permitted uses and structures
   
153.086   Permitted accessory uses and structures
   
153.087   Conditional uses
   
153.088   Prohibited uses and structures
   
153.089   Dimensional and area requirements
   
153.090   Restrictions
Manufactured Home Park District (MH-2)
   
153.100   Permitted uses and structures
   
153.101   Permitted accessory uses and structures
   
153.102   Prohibited uses and structures
   
153.103   Administrative procedures and zoning approval process
   
153.104   Dimensional and area requirements
   
153.105   Minimum space area and width
   
153.106   Minimum open space areas
   
153.107   Design standards
   
153.108   Manufactured home park expansions and conversions
   
153.109   Miscellaneous requirements
Downtown Business District (B-1)
   
153.115   Uses permitted
   
153.116   Uses prohibited
   
153.117   Required lot area and yard area
   
153.118   Height
   
153.119   Conditional uses
General Business District (B-2)
   
153.125   Uses permitted
   
153.126   Accessory uses permitted
   
153.127   Required conditions
   
153.128   Prohibited uses
   
153.129   Required lot area and yard area
   
153.130   Off-street parking, loading and unloading
   
153.131   Conditional uses
   
153.132   Provisions relating to shopping centers
Light Industrial District (I-1)
   
153.140   Uses permitted
   
153.141   Required lot area and yard area
   
153.142   Height
   
153.143   Off-street parking, loading and unloading
   
153.144   Conditional uses
   
153.145   Prohibited uses and structures
Heavy Industrial District (I-2)
   
153.155   Permitted uses and structures
   
153.156   Conditional uses
   
153.157   Prohibited uses and structures
   
153.158   Lot area and yard area
   
153.159   Height
   
153.160   Requirement for sanitary sewer
   
153.161   Off-street parking, loading and unloading
Signs and Billboards
   
153.170   Intent
   
153.171   Scope
   
153.172   Definitions
   
153.173   Exempt signs
   
153.174   Permit requirements
   
153.175   Nonconforming signs
   
153.176   Illegal signs
   
153.177   General requirements
   
153.178   Prohibited signs in all zones
   
153.179   Signs requiring a conditional use permit in all zones
   
153.180   Signs permitted by specific zone
   
153.181   Maintenance standards
   
153.182   Substitution clause
   
153.183   Penalties for violation
Board of Adjustment
   
153.185   Creation and appointment
   
153.186   Appeals; how taken
   
153.187   Powers
Amendment Procedure
   
153.195   Procedures for hearings before the City Council in matters regarding
zoning map amendments
   
153.196   In general
   
153.197   Application process
Development Plan Provisions
   
153.205   In general
   
153.206   Purpose and intent
   
153.207   Agreement to development plan conditions
   
153.208   Development plan requirements
   
153.209   Public notice
   
153.210   Elements of detailed development plan
   
153.211   Enactment of development plan
   
153.212   Parties bound by binding elements
   
153.213   Recordation of binding elements
   
153.214   Amendments to the enacted development plan
   
153.215   Implementation of development plan and zoning district regulations
   
153.216   Conflicts between binding elements and zoning district regulations
   
153.217   Subdivision regulations coordination
   
153.218   Time limit for hearing a zoning map amendment
   
153.219   Time limit for hearing before Board of Adjustment
   
153.220   Final action
Enforcement of Chapter
   
153.230   Administration procedure
   
153.231   Enforcement
   
153.232   Remedies
Validity of Chapter; Effective Date
   
153.240   Conflict with other ordinances and private deeds
   
153.241   Validity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 ZONING AFFECTS EVERY STRUCTURE OR USE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be used and no structure or part
thereof shall be erected, moved or altered, unless for a use expressly
permitted by and in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the
district in which it is located, except that any structure damaged or destroyed
may be restored if such structure does not involve a nonconforming use.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.002 NON-CONFORMITIES.
   (A)   Intent. Within the districts established by this chapter or amendments
that may later be adopted there exist lots, structures and uses of land and
structures which were lawful before this chapter was passed or amended, but
which would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the terms of this
chapter or future amendment. It is the intent of this chapter to permit these
non-conformities to continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their
survival. It is further the intent of this chapter that non-conformities shall
not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor be used as grounds for adding
other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district.
   (B)   Non-conforming structures. Where a lawful structure exists at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter that could not be built
under the terms of this chapter by reason of restrictions on area, lot
coverage, height, yards, its location on the lot, or other requirements
concerning the structure, such structure may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   No non-conforming structure may be enlarged, moved, or structurally
altered in a way which increases its non-conformity, but any structure or
portion thereof may be altered to decrease its non-conformity.
      (2)   Should such non-conforming structure or non-conforming portion of
structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of 55% or more of its
replacement cost exclusive of foundations, at time of destruction, it shall not
be repaired or reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter.
      (3)   Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located after it is moved.
      (4)   No non-conforming use may be reestablished after it has been
discontinued for six consecutive months or for 18 months during any three-year
period except when government action impedes to the premises. The vacating of a
premises or Structure of non operative status shall be evidence of a
discontinued use.
      (5)   No non-conforming use may be changed to any other use except one
which is a permitted use in the district in which it is located.
      (6)   Any structure, in which a non-conforming use is superseded by a
permitted use, the structure shall thereafter conform to the regulations for
the district, and the non-conforming use may not thereafter be resumed.
   (C)   Non-conforming uses of land. Where at the time of passage of this
chapter or amendments, lawful use of land exists which would not be permitted
in the district under the terms of this chapter, the lawful use may be
continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful subject to the following
provisions:
      (1)   No non-conforming use shall be enlarged, increased or extended to
occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this chapter;
      (2)   No such non-conforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to
any portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by such use at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter;
      (3)   If any non-conforming use of land ceases for any reason for six
consecutive months or more, or for 18 months during any three-year period,
except where government action impedes to the premises, any subsequent use of
land shall not thereafter be used except in conformity with the regulations of
the district in which it is located;
      (4)   No additional structure not conforming to the requirements of this
chapter shall be erected in connection with such non-conforming use of land.
   (D)   Non-conforming uses of structures or of structures and premises in
combination. Where at the time of passage of this chapter or amendments, lawful
use involving individual structures, or of structure and premises in
combination, exists which would not be permitted in the district under the
terms of this chapter, the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   No structure, or structure and premises in combination, devoted to
a nonconforming use shall be enlarged, extended, constructed, reconstructed,
moved or structurally altered except in changing the use of the structure to a
use permitted in the district in which it is located;
      (2)   Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which
a nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform
to the regulations for the district, and the non-conforming use may not
thereafter be resumed;
      (3)   If any non-conforming use of a structure, or structure, or
structure and premises in combination, ceases for any reason for six
consecutive months, or more, except when government action impedes to the
premises, any subsequent use of the structure, or structure and premises in
combination, shall not thereafter be used except in conformity with the
regulations of the district in which it is located. Vacating of premises or
building of non operative status shall be evidence of a discontinued use;
      (4)   Where non-conforming use status applies to a structure and premises
in combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of the land. DESTRUCTION for the purpose of this division
(D)(4) is defined as damage to an extent of more than 55% or more of its
replacement cost, exclusive of foundation, at time of destruction.
   (E)   Non-conforming lots of record.
      (1)   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a
single-family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any
single lot of record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
chapter notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this
chapter. This provision shall apply even though such lot fails to meet the
requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally applicable in the
district, provided that yard dimensions and requirements other than these
applying to area or width, or both of the lot shall conform to the regulations
for the district in which such lot is located. Variance of yard requirements
shall be obtained only as provided in this chapter.
      (2)   If two or more lots or combination of lots and portions of lots
with continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at the time of
passage or amendment of this chapter and if all or parts of the lots do not
meet the requirements established for lot width and area, the lands involved
shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purposes of this chapter
and no portion of said parcel shall be used or sold in a manner which
diminishes compliance with lot width and area requirements established by this
chapter nor shall any division of any parcel be made which creates a lot with
width or area below the requirements stated in this chapter.
   (F)   Repairs and maintenance of non-conforming uses.
      (1)   On any non-conforming structure or portion of a structure
containing a nonconforming use, work may be done in any period of 12
consecutive months on ordinary repairs, or on repair or replacement of non-
bearing walls, fixtures, wiring, or plumbing, to an extent not exceeding 10% of
the current replacement cost of the non-conforming portion of the structure as
the case may be, provided that the cubic content existing when it became non-
conforming shall not be increased.
      (2)   If a non-conforming structure or portion of a structure containing
a nonconforming use becomes physically unsafe or unlawful due to lack of
repairs and maintenance, and is declared by any duly authorized official to be
unsafe or unlawful by reason of physical condition, it shall not thereafter be
restored, repaired, or rebuilt except in conformity with the regulations of the
district in which it is located.
      (3)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the
strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof
declared to be unsafe by an official charged with protecting the public safety,
upon order to such official.
   (G)   Uses under conditional use provisions are not non-conforming uses. Any
use which is permitted as a conditional use in a district under the terms of
this chapter shall not be deemed a non-conforming use in such district, but
shall without further action be considered a conforming use.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.003 STREET FRONTAGE REQUIRED.
   No building shall be erected on a lot, nor shall a lot be created, which
does not abut at least one improved street for a distance of not less than 40
feet except in the Downtown Business District.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.004 MINIMUM LOT AREA.
   No lot shall be created or developed which does not have at least one-half
of the minimum lot size for the zoning district where located above the 100-
year frequency flood level.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.005 REAR DWELLINGS PROHIBITED.
   No building in the rear of a main building on the same lot may be used for
residential purposes, except for domestic employees of the occupants of the
main buildings.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.006 PLANS FILED; BUILDING PERMITS.
   In any case where plans and specifications have been approved to the extent
required by law prior to the effective date of this chapter, which plans and
specifications are for a building or structure which would conform with the
zoning regulations effective at the date of such filing, but not with the
regulations of this chapter, a building permit for such building or structure
shall be issued; provided, however, that
such permit shall be valid, only in the event that construction on such
building or structure, in accord with said plans and specifications, is begun
within 60 days after the date of issuance of said permit and shall be completed
within one year of said date.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.007 REDUCTION IN LOT AREA PROHIBITED.
   No lot, although it may consist of one or more adjacent lots of record,
shall be reduced in area to the extent that yards, lot area per family, lot
width, building area, or other requirements of this chapter, are not
maintained. This section shall not apply when a portion of the lot is required
for a public purpose.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.008 OFF-STREET AUTOMOBILE STORAGE.
   (A)   Off-street automobile storage space shall be provided on any lot on
which any of the following uses are hereafter established; such space shall be
provided with vehicular to a street or alley. Off-street parking shall be
provided based upon the criteria set forth in this section.
   (B)   For purposes of computing the number of parking spaces available in a
given area, the ratio of 300 square feet per parking space shall be used. The
following are minimum requirements for specific uses, provided however that in
the event of two or more of the following shall apply, then the greater number
of spaces shall be required:
      (1)   Dwellings. Two spaces for each family dwelling unit; provided
however, if a garage or carport of at least 200 square feet is provided for
each dwelling unit, then said garage or carport shall count as one space.
      (2)   Hotels, motels and tourist accommodations. One space per bedroom.
      (3)   Places of public assembly. One space for each three seats available
at maximum capacity.
      (4)   Industrial plant. One space for each five persons employed or
intended to be employed at said industrial plant for which the parking is
provided.
      (5)   General Business District. One space for each 300 square feet of
gross floor area.
      (6)   Day care center for children. One space for each 420 square feet of
gross floor area exclusive of kitchen and bathrooms.
      (7)   Hospitals. One space for each four authorized beds or beds in use,
whichever is greater, plus one space for each 1,000 square feet of gross floor
area.
      (8)   Medical offices, health clinic and apothecaries. One space for each
200 square feet of gross floor area.
      (9)   Light Industrial District. Two parking spaces per 1,000 square feet
of gross floor area.
      (10)   Elementary and middle schools. Two spaces for each classroom.
      (11)   Secondary and post-secondary schools. Four spaces per classroom
and one space for each six seats in auditoriums, gyms, arena or stadium,
whichever requires the greater number of spaces, but in no case shall more than
300 spaces be required.
      (12)   Combination of uses. Combined uses shall provide parking equal to
the maximum total requirements for the individual uses.
      (13)   Other uses. If parking is not otherwise provided for above then
the number of spaces shall equal one 300 square foot space shall be provided
for each 300 square feet of gross floor area of the principal structure.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.009 OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACE.
   Except in the Downtown Business District, every building or structure
hereafter constructed for business or trade use shall provide adequate space
for the loading or unloading of vehicles off the street or public alley. Such
space shall have access to a public alley, or if there is no alley, to a public
street.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.010 OBSTRUCTIONS TO VISION AT STREET INTERSECTIONS AND DRIVEWAYS
PROHIBITED.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, in any zone, except
the Downtown Business District at any street, alley, or driveway intersection,
any structure, fences, or shrubs shall conform with the limitations of the
applicable sight distance triangle as follows:
   (A)   Street intersections. No obstruction to vision will be permitted
within the triangular area formed by a straight line connecting the points on
the center lines of the street at a distance of 90 feet from their
intersections.
   (B)   Alley or driveway intersecting with a street. No obstruction to vision
will be permitted within the triangular area formed by a straight line
connecting the points on the pavement edges of the street and alley/driveway at
a distance of 20 feet on the street from the alley/driveway and ten feet on the
alley/driveway from the street.
   (C)   Alley or driveway intersecting with an alley. No obstruction to vision
will be permitted within the triangular area formed by a straight line
connecting the points on the pavement edges of the alley/driveway and the alley
at a distance of 20 feet on the alley from the alley/driveway and ten feet on
the alley/driveway from the alley.
   (D)   (1)   There shall be no obstruction of vision within the sight
distance triangle between the height of three feet and ten feet above the
average grade of each street, alley or driveway. Exempted items will include
the following:
      (2)   Signs permitted by this chapter may be located within the site
triangle provided that no part of such sign exceeds a horizontal dimension of
12 inches between the three-foot and ten-foot vertical limitations mentioned
above.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.011 ACCESSORY BUILDING REGULATIONS.
   Accessory buildings, except as otherwise permitted by this chapter, shall be
subject to the following regulations:
   (A)   No accessory building or structure shall extend beyond the front of
the principal structure, excluding fences four feet or less in height and
fences in the Light Industry and Heavy Industry Districts.
   (B)   When a corner lot is involved, which adjoins in the rear another lot
which is used for residential purposes, no accessory building or structure
shall extend beyond the front of the principal structure or be nearer to the
side street than the depth of any required front yard for a dwelling along such
side street, again excluding fences four feet or less.
   (C)   Where the accessory building is structurally attached to the building,
it shall be subject to, and must conform to, all regulations of this chapter
applicable to the building.
   (D)   An accessory building may not exceed the number of stories or height
of principal structure.
   (E)   An accessory building may not exceed the ground floor area of the
building.
   (F)   No detached accessory building shall be located closer than ten feet
to any building.
   (G)   An accessory building may be connected to the building by a breezeway
or other similar structure but shall not be considered as an attached accessory
building, carport, or similar structure. Said breezeway shall not project
nearer the side lot line than the minimum side yard required for the main
building.
      (8)   An accessory building located on a through lot shall conform to the
required building setback line as provided for in §
153.012.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.012 BUILDING LINE SETBACK.
   (A)   A building line to establish a front yard for all buildings and
structures shall be established at a distance from the right-of-way of the
street equivalent to one-half of the width of the right-of-way of the street on
which the building fronts. In no case shall this distance be less than 25 feet.
   (B)   Lots that front on a cul-de-sac, or hammerheads, which have a
mandatory 100 feet radius may use a minimum 25 foot building setback line
provided the required lot width can be maintained. This setback would also
apply to specially designed cul-de-sacs with wide rights-of-way and medians.
   (C)   The side yard setback requirements shall be equal to one-half the
distance of the right-of-way of the side street. In no case shall this distance
be less than 25 feet from the side street right-of-way.
   (D)   Lots that abut an interstate highway, parkway or other fully
controlled highways which allow no direct shall have a building setback line
from the right-of-way of said highway of 25 feet. This building line shall be
the same whether considered as front, side or rear setback.
   (E)   Building setback lines, as established by this section, may be greater
than these minimums; however, for purposes of establishing minimum lot width of
a lot, this distance shall not exceed 100 feet.
   (F)   Variances may be granted where existing development on adjoining lots
does not meet this front yard requirement.
   (G)   This shall not apply to the pump islands of gasoline service stations
whose required setback shall be limited to a maximum control of 30 feet.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.013 SANITARY PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All new urban density development as defined by the adopted
Comprehensive Plan shall be served by public sanitary sewer if available.
   (B)   New urban density development does not include construction of one-
and two-family dwellings on residential lots of record and residential lots
which have received at least preliminary subdivision approval as of the date of
this amendment which are not served by sanitary sewer. Such lots may use on-
site disposal systems approved by the Health Department.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.014 LOT WIDTH.
   The width between side lot lines on any lot shall not be less than 20 feet
at any point.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.015 TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION TRAILERS.
   In all zones under this chapter, manufactured home residential, manufactured
home park and temporary construction trailer(s) as defined by the chapter shall
be permitted. Such temporary construction trailer(s) may be located within such
zones following the issuance of a building permit for construction upon the
parcel where the temporary construction trailer(s) is to be located. Such
temporary construction trailer(s) shall be removed from such parcel within 30
days of occupancy of the building or facility constructed pursuant to such
Building Permit or within 30 days after the termination or expiration of such
building permit, whichever shall first occur.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.016 HOME OCCUPATION.
   (A)   The provisions of this section shall control the conduct,
establishment and maintenance of home occupations. No home occupation shall be
established unless and until a permit therefore has been issued in accordance
with these provisions.
   (B)   Home occupations may be conducted within a dwelling or a permitted
accessory building subject to compliance with all of the following conditions:
      (1)   No person other than members of the family residing on the premises
shall be engaged in such home occupation.
      (2)   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants.
      (3)   No more than one home occupation permit shall be granted per
dwelling unit.
      (4)   The home occupation shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling
unit or permitted accessory building and shall be restricted to one room,
excluding the bathroom only if such facility is required by law.
      (5)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the dwelling
or premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of such home occupation.
      (6)   There shall be no sales on the premises in connection with such
home occupation.
      (7)   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in greater
volumes than would be expected in residential neighborhood.
      (8)   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical interferences,
outside the dwelling unit. In the case of electrical interferences, no
equipment or process shall be used which creates visual or audible interference
in any television or radio receivers off the premises, or cause fluctuations in
line voltage off the premises.
      (9)   Two parking spaces shall be provided for the proper conduct of the
home occupation off the street and other than in a required front yard.
      (10)   No exterior signs shall be permitted except as may be required by
law, and if required then the minimum sign size shall be permitted.
   (C)   Applications for a home occupation shall be made in writing to the
Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall then hold at least one
public hearing after notice as required by KRS Chapter 424. Notice of the
hearing shall also be given at least 14 days in advance of the hearing by
certified mail to the owners of all property adjoining where the home
occupation will be conducted.
   (D)   The Planning Commission may attach such conditions to the conduct and
nature of the home occupation as it deems necessary to insure protection of the
neighborhood involved and consistent with the purposes of this section.
   (E)   Abatement.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator or Administrative Official may initiate
proceedings for the revocation of a home occupation permit and in the following
manner:
         (a)   The application for revocation shall set forth precisely the
grounds of revocation.
         (b)   Notice of the application for revocation shall be given to the
holder of the home occupation permit; the notice shall include a copy of the
application for revocation and shall give the date, time and location of the
revocation hearing.
         (c)   Notice of the revocation hearing shall be given at least 14 days
in advance of the hearing by registered mail or by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the holder of the permit.
         (d)   The return receipt shall be proof of the date of service and the
14-day period shall commence to run from the date of service.
      (2)   Upon notice given at least 14 days prior to hearing, stating the
intent to revoke the home occupation permit and stating the grounds there along
with the time and date of the hearing, a public hearing shall be conducted.
Following the presentation of evidence, the Planning Commission may revoke
a home occupation permit upon a determination that the occupation or use has
been and is conducted so as to create one or more of the following conditions:
         (a)   A nuisance or other undesirable condition interfering with the
public health, safety, morals or general welfare of the community;
         (b)   A violation of the provisions of the chapter or any other
applicable law, ordinance, or violation of the conditions imposed upon the home
occupation permit.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.017 MANUFACTURED HOME PERMITS.
   (A)   Except when located in the MH-1 or MH-2 Districts, a permit issued by
the Commission shall be required in order to locate a manufactured home on any
lot or tract of land.
   (B)   The owner of the lot or tract where the manufactured home is to be
located shall make application to the Commission and pay a fee, as from time to
time established by the Commission.
   (C)   No permit for a manufactured home shall be granted unless all
utilities which would otherwise be required for a dwelling under this chapter
are available to the manufactured home, the manufactured home is in compliance
with all governmental statutes and regulations and the location of the
manufactured home is otherwise in compliance with all zoning regulation and
subdivision regulations.
   (D)   If all requirements of this chapter are met then such permit shall be
issued.
   (E)   If all requirements of this chapter are not met then the permit shall
not be issued by this Commission.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
DISTRICTS AND MAP
§ 153.025 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the Scottsville and Allen County are hereby
divided into zoning districts which shall be designated as follows:
AO   Agriculture District
SF   Single Family Residential District
MF   Multi-Family Residential District
B-l  Downtown Business District
B-2  General Business District
I-1  Light Industrial District
I-2  Heavy Industrial District
MH-1 Manufactured Home Residential District
MH-2 Manufactured Home Park District
 
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.026 OFFICIAL ZONING MAPS.
   The boundaries of these zoning districts are hereby established on official
zoning maps entitled “Zoning Map - Scottsville-Allen County,” which shall be
permanently located in the office of the Scottsville-Allen County Planning
Commission. These official maps, together with all explanatory matter thereon,
is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.027 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   General. Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of any district shown
on the official zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
   (A)   Centerline. Where a boundary line lies within and follows a street or
alley right-of-way, a railroad right-of-way, or utility easement, the boundary
shall be construed to be in the center of such street or alley right-of-way, or
utility easement. If such a street or alley right-of-way, or utility easement
forming the boundary between two separate zoning districts is abandoned or
removed from dedication, the district boundaries shall be construed as
following the centerline of the abandoned or vacated road bed or utility
easement.
   (B)   Edge line. Where a boundary line follows the edge of a street or alley
right-of-way, or utility easement, the boundary shall be construed to be in the
edge of such street or alley right-of-way, railroad right-of-way, or utility
easement. If such a street or alley right-of-way, or utility easement forming
the boundary between two separate zoning districts is abandoned or removed from
dedication, the district
boundaries shall be construed as following the edge of the abandoned or vacated
road bed or utility easement.
   (C)   Lot line. Boundaries indicated as approximately following lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines. In the event that a district
boundary line divides a lot or tract, each part of the lot or tract so divided
shall be used in conformity with the regulations established by this chapter
for the district in which said part is located.
   (D)   City limits. Boundaries indicated as approximately following city
limits or extraterritorial boundary lines shall be construed as following the
city limits or extraterritorial boundary lines.
   (E)   County line. Boundaries indicated as approximately following county
lines shall be construed as following the county line.
   (F)   Watercourses. Boundaries indicated as approximately following the
center lines of streams, rivers, lakes, or other bodies of water shall be
construed to follow such center lines.
   (G)   Extensions. Boundaries indicated as parallel to, or as extensions of
street or alley rights-of-way, channelized waterways, utility easements, lot
lines, city limits, county lines, or extraterritorial boundaries, shall be so
construed.
   (H)   Divided lot. When a lot held in single ownership on the effective date
hereof is divided by a district boundary line, the entire lot shall be
construed to be within the less restrictive district unless the application of
this construction would increase the area of the less restrictive portion of
the lot by more than 25%.
   (I)   Omitted land. In case any land subject to the jurisdiction of this
chapter has not been specifically included within any of the districts shown on
such map, such land shall automatically be classified as Agricultural (AO)
until and unless otherwise rezoned in accordance with the amendment proceedings
hereof.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.028 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   Invalidation. Should any section, sentence, clause, phrase, or word of
this chapter be held invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent
jurisdiction of either the Commonwealth of Kentucky or the United States, such
decision shall not affect, impair, or invalidate the validity of the remaining
parts of this chapter which can be given effect without the invalid provision.
   (B)   Prejudicial application. If any section, sentence, clause, phrase, or
word of this chapter be held invalid or unconstitutional in its application to
a particular case, such decision shall not affect or prejudice its application
to other cases.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.029 LAWFUL PRESUMPTION.
   There shall be a conclusive presumption when an Enforcement Officer or the
Planning Commission authorizes regulatory action, that such officer or board
would not have authorized such action except in the belief that such action was
lawful.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998
§ 153.030 LOT OF RECORD.
   The owner of a lot of record which lot at the time of the adoption of this
chapter does not include sufficient land to conform to the yard or other
requirements of this chapter, may submit an application to the Board of
Adjustment for a variance from the terms of this chapter in accordance with
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.031 TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   The following transitional provisions shall apply to various activities,
actions and other matters pending or occurring on the original effective date
of this chapter:
   (A)   Violations continue. Any violation of this chapter shall continue to
be a violation and shall be subject to prosecution as such. Any such violation
shall also be a violation subject to abatement, removal or other equitable
remedies hereunder unless the use, development, construction or other activity
is clearly consistent with the express terms of this chapter.
   (B)   Nonconforming situations under prior ordinances or regulations. Any
legal nonconforming use, building or lot under a prior ordinance or regulation
of the legislative body shall be a legal nonconforming use, building or lot
under this chapter, subject to the provisions of §§
153.001 through
153.017.
   (C)   Continuing construction. Any building for which a building permit was
issued prior to the date on which this chapter applied to it may be completed
in conformance with the issued building permit and other applicable permits and
conditions, including the plans submitted for the approval of the permit(s). If
such building does not fully conform to the provisions of this chapter or if
the use for which it was designed is not permitted under this chapter, such
building may be occupied and used as a legal nonconforming building or use,
subject to the provisions of §§
153.001 through
153.017. If construction is not timely begun or completed, in accordance with
the applicable permit terms, the Planning Commission may, for good cause shown,
grant not more than one extension of not more than six months for such
construction. If the building is not timely completed, within the time allowed
under the original permit or any extension granted, then the building may be
constructed, completed and/or occupied only in strict compliance with the
requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Continuing development. Any subdivision for which a final plat was
recorded in the office of the Allen County Clerk prior to the date on which
this chapter applied to it may be completed in accordance with its terms. If
such subdivision or development does not fully conform to the provisions of
this chapter, the subdivision or development (including any buildings for which
plans were included in a development approval) may be completed and used and
shall exist as a legal nonconforming lot or nonconforming building, subject to
the provisions of §§
153.001 through
153.017.
(Ord. 665-998, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.032 PROVISIONS RELATED TO DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION.
   General rules of construction.
   (A)   Construction of language, meanings and intent. All provisions, terms,
phrases and expressions contained in this chapter shall be construed according
to the stated purpose and intent of this chapter. In construing this chapter
all defined terms set forth herein shall govern interpretation, whether such
terms are capitalized or not capitalized.
   (B)   Headings, illustrations and text. In case of any difference of meaning
or implication between the text and any heading, drawing, table or figure, the
text will control.
   (C)   Computation of time. In computing any period of time prescribed or
allowed herein the day of the act, event which the designated period of time
begins to run is not to be included. The last day of the period so computed is
to be included, unless it is a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday, in which
event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not a Saturday, a
Sunday or a legal holiday.
   (D)   References to laws, other regulations, publications and documents.
Whenever reference is made to a state or federal law, another regulation,
document or publication, it will be construed as a reference to the most recent
edition of such law, regulation (as amended), document or publication, unless
otherwise specifically stated.
   (E)   Technical and nontechnical terms. Words and phrases will be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases that may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law
will be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   (F)   Mandatory and discretionary terms. The words “shall” or “will” are
mandatory requirements, the word “may” is permissive requirement, and the word
“should” is a preferred requirement.
   (G)   Conjunctions. Unless the context clearly suggests the contrary,
conjunctions will be interpreted as follows: “and” indicates that all connected
items, conditions, provisions or events apply; and “or” indicates that one or
more of the connected items, conditions, provisions or events may apply.
   (H)   Tenses and usage. Words used in one tense (past, present or future)
include all other tenses, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary.
The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the singular.
   (I)   Use of word “person.” The word “person” includes a firm, entity,
association, limited liability organization, organization, partnership, trust,
company, or corporation as well as individual.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.033 RULES FOR MEASUREMENTS.
   When interpretation of this chapter requires a measurement, the measurements
shall be made in accordance with this section, and the terms set out below
shall be defined to mean the result of such measurements.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
GENERAL DEFINITIONS
§ 153.040 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS. A point at which provisions are made for vehicular entrance to or
exit from or to a lot or other street.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building, the use of which is clearly
incidental to that of a building on the same lot.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A detached, subordinate structure, the use of which is
clearly incidental and related to that of the principal structure or use of the
land, and which is located on the same lot as that of the principal structure.
   ALLEY. A service roadway providing secondary access to the abutting property
and not intended for general traffic circulation.
   APPLICANT. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or the owners
representative or agent who shall have express written authority to act on
behalf of the owner in all respects under these subdivision regulations.
   BINDING ELEMENTS. Those conditions agreed to by the Planning Commission and
the owner which are imposed upon a development plan and which control the
development and use of the property in question. The conditions may be in
writing or by graphic representation.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for the support, shelter, or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels, process, equipment, goods, or materials of any
kind.
   BUILDING LINE. A setback line parallel to a property line beyond which one
may not build any improvements. See also SETBACK LINE.
   BUILDING PERMIT. A permit issued by the appropriate governmental agency
allowing an owner or his or her agent to construct, alter or remove a building
to construct out buildings or accessory structures, or engage in similar
activity which would alter the character of the lot in question.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the principal use of
the lot on which it is located. In a residential district, any dwelling shall
be deemed to be the building on its lot.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The long range plan adopted by the Planning Commission
and the City of Scottsville and County of Allen in accordance with KRS Chapter
100, which is intended to guide the growth and development of the city and
county. It contains the general location and extent of present and proposed
physical facilities including housing, commercial and industrial uses,
transportation facilities, recreation and parks, community facilities, and land
use.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use which is essential to or would promote the public
health, safety, or welfare in one or more zones, but which would impair the
integrity and character of the zone in which it is located, or in adjoining
zones, unless restrictions on location, size, extent, and character of
performance are imposed in addition to those imposed in the zoning regulation.
   CONDOMINIUM. A building, or group of buildings, in which each individual
unit are held in separate private ownership and all floor space, facilities and
outdoor areas used in common by all tenants are owned, administered and
maintained by a corporation created pursuant to the provisions of KRS 381.805
to 381.910.
   COUNTY COURT CLERK. The Allen County Court Clerk.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street with only one outlet that terminates in a
vehicular turnaround and having an appropriate terminal for the safe and
convenient reversal of traffic movement.
   DENSITY. The permitted number of dwelling units per gross acre of land to be
developed.
   DRAINAGE. The removal of surface water or groundwater from land by drains,
grading, or other means.
   DRIVEWAY. A paved or unpaved area used for ingress or egress of vehicles,
and allowing access from a street to a building or other structure or facility.
   DWELLING. A building or structure designed or used for permanent human
habitation. The word DWELLING" shall not include mobile home or trailer; or
boarding or rooming house, motel, hotel, hospital or other accommodations used
for transient occupancy.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A dwelling unit within a building containing two or
more dwelling units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached building designed for, or occupied
exclusively by, one family.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms connected together, constituting a
separate, independent housekeeping establishment with separate toilets and
containing independent cooking and sleeping facilities for owner occupancy,
rental or lease on a weekly, monthly or longer basis.
   EASEMENT. A grant of one or more of the property rights by the property
owner to and for the use by the public, a corporation or another person or
entity for a specific purpose.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a dwelling unit and living as a
single, non-profit housekeeping unit, but not including a group of persons
living together because of similar status including hotel; club; boarding,
rooming, lodging, fraternity or sorority houses; commune; institution for human
care; or other similar building. Notwithstanding this definition, a FAMILY
shall be deemed to include handicapped persons as defined in KRS 100.982(1).
   FRONTAGE. That property line of a lot abutting on a street; the front lot
line. For the purposes of determining yard requirements on corner lots, all
sides of a lot adjacent to streets shall be considered FRONTAGE, and yards
shall be provided as indicated under yards in this chapter. A property line
which abuts a fully controlled street and which permanently has no to that
street shall be deemed not to have FRONTAGE.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several
floors of a building, including interior balconies and mezzanines, but
excluding exterior balconies. All horizontal dimensions of each floor are to be
measured by the exterior faces of walls, including the walls of roofed porches
having more than one wall. The FLOOR AREA of a building shall include the floor
area of accessory buildings on the same lot.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The public Health Department having jurisdiction for
Scottsville and Allen County, Kentucky.
   HEIGHT OF BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. The vertical distance from the average
ground level abutting a building or structure to the top of the top full story
of a building or highest point of any permanent part of a structure other than
a building. Height, where not regulated in feet, shall be regulated by stories,
and a story shall be equal to 12 feet for purposes of measuring structures
other than buildings.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Occupations of dress-making, handicrafts, millinery,
laundering, preserving and home cooking, beauty shops, art and music studio,
and tutoring of individuals, maintained or conducted within a dwelling. The
retail sale on the premises, the processing of materials except accepted
handicrafts, or storage of any materials or product for sale shall not qualify
as a HOME OCCUPATION.
   LAGOON. A shallow artificial pool or pond as for the processing of sewage or
storage of a water for agricultural purposes.
   LOT. A parcel, tract, plot or area of land established by a subdivision or
other parcel of land as permitted by law, for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of transfer of ownership, or possession, lease, or building
development.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance from the front street line to the
rear line, excluding any required fence/buffer easements or parcels.
   LOT LINE. A line of record, bounding a lot, that divides one lot from
another lot or from a street or any other public space.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The lot line separating a lot from the street rights-of-
way.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line opposite and most distant from the front lot
line. In the case of triangular or otherwise irregularly shaped lots, a line
ten feet in length entirely within the lot, parallel to and at a maximum
distance from the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot that:
      (1)   Exists as shown or described in a plat of record,
      (2)   Is described in a deed fully executed, including the
acknowledgement of all signatures, prior to the effective date of the
Scottsville-Allen County Subdivision Regulations, or
      (3)   Is described in a deed placed of record prior to the effective date
of the Scottsville- Allen County Subdivision Regulations, or
      (4)   Has been previously divided by public roadway that has not been re-
described by a plat or by deed recorded in the office of the Allen County Clerk
after the effective date of these subdivision regulations.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lines of a lot measured
at right angle to its depth along a straight line parallel to the front lot
line at the minimum required building setback line.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Manufactured homes Class A and manufactured homes Class B
as defined in this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOMES CLASS A. A single-family residential dwelling unit
constructed in accordance with the Federal Manufactured Housing Construction
and Safety Standards, after June 15,1976, in an off site manufacturing
facility. The manufactured home is intended for installation or assembly at the
building site as a permanent structure with transport features removed, bearing
a seal certifying that it is built in compliance with Federal Manufacturing
Housing Construction and Safety Act standards and that satisfies each of the
following additional criteria:
      (1)   The home has a length not exceeding four times its width;
      (2)   The pitch of the home’s roof has a minimum vertical rise of four
inches for each foot of run (4:12). The run is equal to one-half the span;
      (3)   The roof is finished with a type of shingle that is commonly used
on site-built residential construction, such as wood, tile, or composition
shingles;
      (4)   Exterior covering material extending to the ground or to the top of
the foundation shall be used;
      (5)   The exterior material shall be material customarily used for site-
built dwellings, such as board siding, hardboard, or non-reflective aluminum,
vinyl, stucco, brick, comparable in composition, appearance, and durability to
the exterior siding commonly used in site-built residential construction;
      (6)   A continuous, permanent masonry foundation system, not pierced
except for required ventilation and, is installed under the home;
      (7)   The tongue, axles, transporting lights, and removable towing
apparatus are removed after placement on the lot and before occupancy;
      (8)   The structure is no more than three feet off the ground at its
highest point;
      (9)   Structural additions or alterations which have been made to the
dwelling unit were made in accordance with all local ordinances and
regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOME CLASS B. A single-family residential dwelling unit
constructed in accordance with the Federal Manufactured Housing Construction
and Safety Standards (Title 42 of the United States Code) after June 15,1976,
in an off site manufacturing facility. The manufactured home is intended for
installation or assembly at the building site as a permanent structure with
transport features removed, bearing a seal certifying that it was built in
compliance with Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards
(Title 42 of the United States Code) but does not satisfy each of the criteria
necessary to qualify the home as a Class A manufactured home. Structural
additions or alterations which have been made to the dwelling unit were made in
accordance with residential building code adopted by the City of Scottsville.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Any parcel of land developed, used or designed for
the location, either temporary or permanent, of manufactured homes, on rental
basis, and according to the procedures set for in this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE. A plot of ground within a manufactured home park
designed for the accommodation of one manufactured home.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A subdivision designed or intended for the
sale of lots and for sitting Class A or B manufactured homes or modular homes
and developed according to the procedures set forth in this chapter.
   MATERIAL RECYCLERS. Any establishment or place of business, including
garbage dumps and sanitary fills, maintained, operated, or used for storing,
keeping, buying, or selling of old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags,
batteries, paper, trash, rubber debris, waste, or motor vehicle parts, iron,
steel, and other old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous material.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure for residential use constructed prior to July
15,1976, being the effective date of the Federal Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Act Standards (Title 42 of the United States Code), and
transportable which is built on its own chassis and designed with, or without,
a permanent foundation for year-round living when connected to the required
utilities. It can consist of one or more sections that can be telescoped when
towed and expanded later for additional capacity or of two or more sections
separately towable designed to be joined into one integral unit. As used
herein, MOBILE HOME shall include a house trailer, but shall not include
camping trailer, travel trailer, recreational vehicle, pickup coach or auto
camper.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. An established use of a structure or land lawful prior
to and at the time of the adoption, revision or amendment of this chapter, but
which fails by reason of such adoption, revision or amendment, to conform to
the present uses permitted in the zoning district.
   OFF-STREET PARKING. A temporary storage area for a motor vehicle that is
directly accessible to an aisle and that is not located on a dedicated street
right-of-way.
   OPEN SPACE. Any parcel or area of land or water essentially unimproved and
set aside, dedicated, designated, or reserved for the public or private use or
enjoyment of owners and occupants of land adjoining or neighboring such open
space.
   OWNER. Any person, corporation, partnership or other entity, or any
combination thereof, in whom is vested the legal title to real estate or other
property.
   PERSON. The word PERSON includes individual, firm, association,
organization, partnership, trust, limited liability company or partnership,
company or corporation or other legal entity or combination thereof.
   PLAT. A map representing a tract of land showing the boundaries and location
of individual properties, easements, streets, and other required information.
   PREMISES. A general term meaning part or all of any lot or part or all of
any building or structure or group of buildings or structures located thereon.
   PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE. A structure in which is conducted the principal
activity or use of the lot on which it is situated. In any district which
permits residential uses, the dwelling unit shall be deemed to be the building
on the lot.
   RESTRICTED MOTOR VEHICLE DEALERS. A motor vehicle dealer (as defined in KRS
190.010) who exclusively sells, offers to sell, solicits, or advertises
specialized motor vehicles, including, but not limited to, funeral coaches,
emergency vehicles, and an automotive recycling dealer engaged in the business
of dismantling, salvaging, or recycling salvage motor vehicles for the purpose
of harvesting used parts, components, assemblies, and recyclable materials for
resale, reuse, or reclamation.
   RIGHTS-OF-WAY. A strip of land acquired by reservation, dedication,
prescription, or condemnation that is occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, road, highway, crosswalk, railroad or for other similar use.
   SCREENING. A method of visually or audibly shielding or obscuring an
adjacent or nearby structure or use from another by fencing, walls, berms or
densely planted vegetation.
   SETBACK. The distance between the building and any lot line.
   SETBACK, FRONT. A setback that is to extend across the full width of a lot,
the required depth of which is measured as the minimum horizontal distance
between the front lot line and a line parallel thereto on the lot.
   SETBACK, INTERIOR SIDE. A setback that is to extend from the front lot line
to the rear lot line along the side of a lot that is adjacent to another lot,
the required depth of which is measured as the minimum horizontal distance
between the side lot line and a line parallel thereto on the lot.
   SETBACK LINE. That line that is the required minimum distance from any lot
line and that established the area within which the principal structure must be
erected or placed.
   SETBACK, REAR. A setback that is to extend across the full width of a lot,
the required depth of which is measured as the minimum horizontal distance
between the rear lot line and a line parallel thereto on the lot.
   SETBACK, STREET SIDE. A setback that is to extend from the front lot line to
the rear lot line along the street side of a corner lot, the required depth of
which is measured as the minimum horizontal distance between the street side
lot line and a line parallel thereto on the lot.
   SIGHT DISTANCE. A straight line of unobstructed view measured between a
point four feet above the finished surface of a street, at the center line of
each traffic lane, and a point at a given minimum specified distance away from
the first point, located one foot above the finished surface at the centerline
of the same traffic lane.
   SIGN. Any device, display or structure, other than a building or
landscaping, which is readily visible from public property and is used
primarily for visual communication for the purpose of, or having the effect of,
bringing the subject matter on the device, display or structure, to the
attention of persons off the premises on which the sign is displayed. The
foregoing definition includes (but is not limited to) numerals, pictorial
representations, emblems, trademarks, flags, banners, streamers, pennants,
inscriptions and patterns and shall include a structure erected or used in
connection with the display of any such device and all lighting or other
attachments used in connection therewith.
   STREET. Any vehicular way that:
      (1)   Is an existing state, county, or municipal street;
      (2)   Is shown upon a plat approved pursuant to law;
      (3)   Is approved by other official action; or
      (4)   Is shown on a plat duly filed and recorded in the office of the
County Court Clerk’s Office from and after the effective date of these
subdivision regulations.
   STREET, PRIVATE. A means of within a subdivision which gives to a public
street and is owned and maintained by the property owners within the
subdivision.
   STREET, PUBLIC. A street that has been accepted for maintenance by the city,
county, or Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, erected, or attached, the use of which
requires location on the ground or in the ground as may be required for the
purposes of carrying out this chapter. The term shall not include poles and
appurtenances thereto used for the provision of public utilities. STRUCTURES
includes any building or accessory building, manufactured homes, signs, towers,
billboards, porches, swimming or other recreation or commercial pools, and
retaining walls, gas or liquid storage tank, fences and other man-made
facilities or infrastructures.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a parcel of land into three or more lots, for
the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, lease, or building
development, including all changes in street or lot lines, or if a new street
is involved, any division of a parcel of land. The division of land for
agricultural purposes, in parcels of more than ten acres not involving a new
street, shall not require a plat, unless it has been subdivided prior to the
effective date of these subdivision regulations and now contains less than ten
acres. The term includes re-subdivision and when appropriate to the context,
shall relate to the process of subdivision or to the land subdivided.
   SURVEY. The process of precisely ascertaining the area, dimensions, and
location of a piece of land.
   TOPOGRAPHY. The existing soil, rock or other landform, which would
constitute the slope of the land.
   TRACT. A lot. The term TRACT is used interchangeably with the term LOT.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which a land or building or structure or
combination thereof is designed, arranged, or intended, or for which it is
occupied or maintained.
   VARIANCE. A departure from dimensional terms of the zoning regulation
pertaining to the height, width, or location of structures, and the size of
yards and open spaces where such departure meets the requirements of KRS
Chapter 100.
   VEHICLE RECYCLERS. Any place where five or more junked, wrecked or
nonoperative automobiles, vehicles, machines and other similar scrap or salvage
materials, excluding inoperative farm equipment, are deposited, parked, placed
or otherwise located; or any business or person engaged as an automobile
dealer, body shop operator, wrecker service operator, service station operator,
or other activity which may buy, sell or repair nonoperative vehicles,
automobiles or machinery as a service, where ten or more junked, wrecked, or
nonoperative automobiles, vehicles, machines and other similar scrap or salvage
materials are deposited, parked, placed or otherwise located.
   YARD. An open space that lies between the building and the nearest lot line.
   YARD, FRONT. A space extending the full width of the lot between any
building and the front lot line and measured perpendicular to the building at
the closest point to the front lot line.
   YARD, REAR. A space extending across the full width of the lot between the
building and the rear lot line and measured perpendicular to the building at
the closest point to the rear lot line.
   YARD, SIDE. A space extending the front yard to the rear yard between the
principal building and the side lot line and measured perpendicular to the side
lot to the closest point to the front lot line.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998; Ord. 674-00, passed 2-14-2000; Ord. 680-00,
passed 10-16-2000)
§ 153.041 EXCEPTION OF HEIGHT LIMITS.
   The height limitations of this chapter shall not apply to church spires,
belfries, cupolas and domes not intended for human occupancy; monuments, water
towers, observation towers, flag poles, radio and television towers, masts,
aerials, chimneys and smoke stacks.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.042 HORIZONTAL PROPERTY, RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   General provisions.
   (A)   All projects subject to one or more provisions of KRS 381.805 to
381.910 shall be subject to these regulations.
   (B)   All projects whether referred to as horizontal properties or
condominium properties shall be in accord with the Comprehensive Plan of Allen
County.
   (C)   A master deed or lease which sets forth the particulars enumerated by
KRS 381.835 shall not be recorded and established as a horizontal property
regime without having first been reviewed and approved by the Planning
Commission.
   (D)   Floor plans meeting the standards set forth in KRS 381.835(5) shall
not be filed in the office of the recording offices without having first been
reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission.
   (E)   The maximum permitted overall densities and floor area ratios and the
minimum outdoor area, living space, and recreation area ratios shall be
controlled by the zoning district classification in which the project is
located.
   (F)   The permitted uses will be controlled by the zoning district
classification in which the project is located.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT (AO)
§ 153.050 USES PERMITTED.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the Agricultural District:
   (A)   Agricultural use as defined in KRS Chapter 100, and including the
raising and feeding of animals, including poultry, in connection with an
incidental and subordinate to the maintenance of pasture
for the feeding of animals or the tillage of soil, but not including the
industrial-scale raising and feeding of animals, including poultry, which is
not incidental to the overall farming operation. The industrial-scale raising
and feeding of animals, including poultry, when that is the primary purpose of
the operation, is not a permitted use in the Agricultural District.
   (B)   Churches and buildings associated with the worship at such churches.
   (C)   Commercial riding stables and horse training, commercial fishing
lakes, commercial kennels, unlighted commercial golf driving ranges, commercial
sportsman farms, including commercial gun clubs, commercial skeet shooting
ranges and rifle ranges; provided that any building in which animals are housed
shall conform to the minimum distance requirements of this subchapter.
   (D)   One-family detached dwellings and bed and breakfast inns which are
occupied by the owner.
   (E)   Public parks, playgrounds and community centers; private recreation
area, institutional or recreational centers including country clubs and golf
courses but not including lighted golf courses designed for night play and not
including miniature golf courses; public and private forests and wildlife
preserves, and similar conservation areas.
   (F)   Three minor subdivisions whose aggregate total lots do not exceed four
lots or 20 acres, whichever is less, as defined in the Scottsville-Allen County
Subdivision Regulations.
   (G)   Those commercial uses which are ancillary to and required for farming
operations, which by way of example shall include welding and mechanical shops
for the repair and maintenance of agricultural equipment.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.051 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses are declared to possess such characteristic of unique or
special form, nature of operation, extent or limited application that each
specific use shall be considered on an individual case and shall be subject to
written approval by the Board of Zoning Adjustments in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   Airports and landing fields, provided further that the location, size
and plans for such airport or aircraft landing field and its operational
features are approved by all state or federal agencies having jurisdiction.
   (B)   Cemeteries, crematories, columbaria, mausoleums and animal burial
grounds; provided however, that such establishment conforms to the minimum
distance requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   The industrial-scale raising and feeding of animals, including
poultry, where the industrial-scale raising and feeding of animals is the
primary purpose of the operation; provided however, that the applicant meets
all of the Animal Feeding Operations Surface Water Standards enacted by the
Planning Commission.
   (D)   Disposal of garbage or refuse.
   (E)   Public and private sewage disposal plants.
   (F)   Wireless transmitting stations.
   (G)   Travel trailer parks and camp grounds subject to the following:
      (1)   The minimum park area shall be ten acres.
      (2)   No travel-trailer park or camp ground shall be located except
within direct to an arterial highway as designated from time to time by the
Scottsville-Allen County Planning Commission and with a minimum of 50 feet of
frontage thereon in order to permit the proper design of entrances and exits.
No entrance or exit from a travel-trailer park or camp ground shall be
permitted through a residential district, and the movement of traffic from the
park shall not be permitted through any such residential district.
      (3)   Spaces in the travel-trailer park and campground may be used by
travel trailers, equivalent facilities constructed in or on automotive
vehicles, or other short term housing or shelter arrangements or devices.
Spaces shall be rented by the day only, and occupants of such space shall
remain in the same trailer park not more than 14 consecutive days,
      (4)   All plumbing fixtures shall conform to appropriate Commonwealth of
Kentucky Plumbing Code and health rules and regulations for recreational areas.
Every application for construction, operation, maintenance and occupancy for
travel-trailer parks and campgrounds shall submit a plot plan designating at a
minimum all rental lots, internal streets and points to arterial highways. The
plot plan shall also provide the same information as required for a development
plan under these regulations.
      (5)   No spaces located in any part of the travel-trail parks or
campgrounds shall be within 50 feet of the right-of-way line of any street or
thoroughfare or within 25 feet of any adjoining public or private property.
      (6)   A 50-foot setback with protective screening or fencing shall be
required on property boundaries adjacent to a public right-of-way. These
property boundaries adjoining private property shall require a setback of 25
feet and protective fencing.
   (H)   Child care centers; nurseries; day care centers and kindergartens.
   (I)   Land farming or land spreading of any sludge or special wastes may be
established and maintained in an Agricultural District as a conditional use in
accordance with the following:
      (1)   Any conditional use permit granted shall be conditioned upon the
granting and continuation of a land farming permit pursuant to 401 KAR 47:050
and shall become effective on the date the land farming permit is issued by the
Kentucky Cabinet for Natural Resources and Environmental Protection.
      (2)   For information purposes, a copy of the permit application required
by 401 KAR 47:050(2) submitted to the Kentucky Cabinet for Natural Resources
and Environmental Protection, including all amendments thereto, shall be filed
simultaneously with the Board of Adjustment.
      (3)   For informational purposes the applicant shall provide the Board of
Adjustment with a copy of written notice regarding excessive cumulative
concentrations of contaminates as required 401 KAR 47:050(6)(6) and a copy of
any report describing corrective actions to be taken pursuant to 401 KAR 47:050
(6).
      (4)   When a conditional use permit for land farming is revoked, notice
of revocation shall be provided by letter from the Board of Adjustment to the
Kentucky Cabinet for Natural Resources and Environmental Protection. A
conditional use permit for land farming shall be revoked:
         (a)   When the applicant fails to provide copies of test result,
affidavits or notices required by this subchapter to the Board of Adjustment
within 60 days of the date test are taken or notice or reports are due to be
sent to the Cabinet for Natural Resources and Environmental Protection;
         (b)   When the area cease to used as a land farming site;
         (c)   When the applicant’s land farming permit issued pursuant to KRS
Chapter 224 and 401 KAR is revoked by the Kentucky Cabinet for Natural
Resources and Environmental Protection;
         (d)   If the information on which the application for conditional use
permit was granted is proved to be false; or
         (e)   Upon the occurrence of hydrological changes in the land farming
site which affect the site’s capacity for removal or control of contaminates.
      (5)   Quarries and gravel pits; provided that any building housing power
or power producing machinery or equipment shall conform to the building setback
requirements of this chapter, and when adjacent to a residential or
agricultural zone, shall be located so as to provide a minimum side and rear
yard of 50 feet.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.052 PROHIBITED USES.
   The following shall be prohibited uses in the Agricultural District:
   (A)   Major subdivisions containing any lots of less than five acres; and
   (B)   Four or more minor subdivisions.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.053 ACCESSORY USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to any of the
above permitted principal use, located on the same lot with such use, such as
agricultural structures, tenant homes, private garages, private stables and
exercise tracts, or parking areas; but in no event shall this include and
business, trade or industry nor any driveway or walkway to such business, trade
or industry unless clearly incidental to the permitted principal use.
   (B)   Customary incidental home occupations.
   (C)   Keeping of roomers or boarders by a resident family,
   (D)   Roadside stands offering for sale agricultural produced on or near the
premises. Such stands shall be located at least ten feet from the pavement or
off the established right-of-way, whichever is the greater distance from the
center line of the road.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.054 HEIGHTS, LOTS AREAS, AND WIDTHS, YARD AND COURTS.
   The requirements set forth in §§
153.001 through
153.017 shall be observed, except that height, lot area, lot widths, yard and
courtyard requirements shall not apply to agricultural buildings,
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.055 RESIDENCES.
   Residences shall have a minimum lot size of one-fourth of one acre or more
if connected to a public sanitary sewage disposal system, or seven-tenths of
one acre or more if connected to an on-site sanitary sewage disposal system
approved by the Health Department and shall conform to other lot requirements
of the Single-Family Residential District of this chapter.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS (SF, MF and GF)
§ 153.065 USES PERMITTED.
   The following shall be permitted uses in the Residential Districts:
   (A)   SF. Single-family dwellings and customary horticultural uses, and
buildings incidental thereto.
   (B)   MF. Any use permitted in the SF District and multi-family dwellings,
and buildings incidental thereto.
   (C)   GF. Any use permitted in the SF District, multi-family dwellings,
multi-residential group homes, and buildings incidental thereto.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998; Ord. 784-12, passed 8-13-2012)
§ 153.066 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following shall be conditional uses in the Residential Districts. The
following uses are declared to possess such characteristics of unique or
special form, nature of operation, extent or limited application that each
specific use shall be considered an individual case and shall be subject to
written approval of the Board of Zoning Adjustment in accordance with the
provisions of chapter:
   (A)   Nurseries, day-care centers; kindergartens; churches and other places
of worship; parish houses; public libraries, schools offering a general
education course; child care centers; country clubs and golf courses; public
parks and noncommercial public recreational facilities; municipal, county,
state or federal use; public utilities; cemeteries; private hospitals for human
care; philanthropic institutions and philanthropic clubs; bed and breakfast
when located in a private home.
   (B)   Off street parking shall be required for all conditional uses.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998; Ord. 784-12, passed 8-13-2012)
§ 153.067 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Accessory buildings or uses customarily incidental to any aforementioned
permitted uses are permitted.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998; Ord. 784-12, passed 8-13-2012)
§ 153.068 MULTI-FAMILY BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All proposed group housing, with more than four residents and multi-
family residential structures exceeding four family units per building shall be
presented at a public hearing conducted by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   All multiple dwelling units shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Space requirements.
         (a)   Each dwelling unit shall provide complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation.
         (b)   Every dwelling unit shall have at least one habitable room which
shall have not less than 150 square feet of floor area. Other habitable rooms
shall have an area of not less than 70 square feet. Every kitchen shall have
not less than 50 square feet of floor area.
         (c)   Habitable rooms except kitchens shall be not less than seven
feet in any horizontal dimension.
         (d)   Every dwelling unit shall be provided with a water closet,
lavatory, and a bathtub or shower.
         (e)   Each dwelling unit shall be provided with a kitchen area and
every kitchen area shall be provided with a sink of approved nonabsorbent
material.
         (f)   Every dwelling unit shall conform to all other applicable codes
and ordinances.
      (2)   Access.
         (a)   Vehicular access shall be provided to the property from an
abutting street or alley.
         (b)   Driveways shall be provided for convenient access to the living
area.
      (3)   Light and ventilation. Light and ventilation shall be provided in
all habitable rooms by means of windows in outside walls. Basement apartments
shall have outside lighting.
   (C)   All group quarter dwelling units shall meet the following
requirements:
      (1)   Space requirements.
         (a)   Each dwelling unit shall provide complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation.    
         (b)   Every dwelling unit shall have no more than four individual
sleeping quarters, with no more than four unrelated persons in each, which
shall have not less than 150 square feet of floor area. Other habitable rooms
shall have an area of not less than 70 square feet. Every kitchen shall have
not less than 50 square feet of floor area. Staff quarters may be added.
         (c)   Habitable rooms except kitchens shall be not less than seven
feet in any horizontal dimension.
         (d)   Every dwelling unit shall be provided at least one water closet,
lavatory, and a bathtub or shower for every six persons.
         (e)   Each dwelling unit shall be provided with a kitchen area and
every kitchen area shall be provided with a sink of approved nonabsorbent
material. Grease traps shall be required for each kitchen unit.
         (f)   Every dwelling unit shall conform to all other applicable codes
and ordinances.
      (2)   Access.
         (a)   Vehicular access shall be provided to the property from an
abutting street or alley.
         (b)   Driveways shall be provided for convenient access to the living
area.
         (c)   One parking spaces shall be provided for each individual group
home resident and staff person.
      (3)   Light and ventilation. Light and ventilation shall be provided in
all habitable rooms by means of windows in outside walls. Basement sleeping
quarters shall meet lighting ventilation and egress requirements.
      (4)   Site requirements.
         (a)   Site shall not be located within 1,000 feet of a private or
public school property. Post-secondary education facilities are excluded.
         (b)   Site shall not be located within 1,000 feet of a licensed
daycare facility or community recreational area designated for children's
activities (i.e., public playgrounds) if registered sex offenders are housed or
treated.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998; Ord. 784-12, passed 8-13-2012)
§ 153.069 SIDE AND REAR YARDS.
   (A)   All buildings (except unattached one story building or accessory use)
shall have the following yard space:
 
REAR AND SIDE YARD REQUIREMENTS
            Rear Yard Side Yard Both Sides Min. One Side
SF District 25'       20'                  10'
FM District 25'       15'                  7 1/2'*
GF District 25'       50'                  25'
*All buildings in the MF and GF District having three or more units shall
have a side yard equal to one-half of the height of the building. In the MF
District, all buildings containing more than two dwelling units shall have a
minimum side yard of ten feet. Uses permitted by conditional use shall have
a minimum side yard of ten feet.
 
   (B)   Unattached one-story buildings of accessory use, unless there is a
party wall, shall have the following space to the lot line:
 
Rear yard depth 6 feet
Side yard depth 5 feet
 
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998; Ord. 748-12, passed 8-13-2012)
§ 153.070 SPECIAL ACCESSORY USES.
   The following is special accessory use:
   (A)   A swimming pool as an accessory use to a residential structure shall
be located no closer than ten feet to the rear property line and no closer than
ten feet to a side property line. On a corner lot the side yard setback shall
be equal to one-half the distance of the right-of-way of the side street, but
no less than 25 feet. The setback shall be measured from the wall of the
swimming pool to the nearest property line.
   (B)   The swimming pool area must be enclosed by a fence or other suitable
barrier with a minimum height of not less than four feet. Openings in the fence
shall be small enough to prevent a child from entering the enclosure other than
through the gate.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998; Ord. 784-12, passed 8-13-2012)
§ 153.071 USES PROHIBITED.
   The following are prohibited uses in the Residential Districts:
   (A)   No advertising signs or billboards, other than those specifically
permitted under sections of this chapter, shall be permitted.
   (B)   No motels, tourist courts, trailer coaches or trailer coach parks
shall be permitted in these districts.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998; Ord. 784-12, passed 8-13-2012)
§ 153.072 REQUIRED LOT AREA AND WIDTH.
The following shall constitute minimum required lot areas and widths in the
Residential Districts:
   (A)   SF District. Minimum required lot area for single-family dwellings
shall be one-fourth of one acre or more if connected to a public sanitary
sewage disposal system, or seven-tenths of one acre or more if connected to an
on-site sanitary sewage disposal system approved by the Health Department.
Minimum required lot width at the building line shall be 100 feet. Building and
required parking shall not cover more than 25% of the total lot area.
   (B)   MF District.
      (1)   Minimum lot areas for the MF District are as follows:
Number of Units Minimum Lot Area if on Public Minimum Lot Area if not on Public
                Sanitary Sewer                Sanitary Sewer
Number of Units Minimum Lot Area if on Public Minimum Lot Area if not on Public
                Sanitary Sewer                Sanitary Sewer
1               8,000 sq. ft.                 43,560 sq. ft.
2               11,000 sq. ft.                26,000 sq. ft.
3               14,000 sq. ft.                Not allowed
4               17,000 sq. ft.                Not allowed
5               19,000 sq. ft.                Not allowed
6               21,000 sq. ft.                Not allowed
7               23,000 sq. ft.                Not allowed
8               25,000 sq. ft.                Not allowed
 
      (2)   Maximum number of dwelling units per building shall be eight units.
Total building and parking shall not cover more than 50% of the total lot area.
Minimum required lot width at the building line shall be 75 feet.
   (C)   GF District.
      (1)   Minimum lot areas for the GF District are as follows:
 
Number of Sleeping Quarters Minimum Lot Area if on Minimum Lot Area if not on
                            Public Sanitary Sewer  Public Sanitary Sewer
1                           13,000 sq. ft.         26,000 sq. ft.
2                           21,780 sq. ft.         43,560 sq. ft.
3                           29,000 sq. ft.         Not allowed
4                           36,300 sq. ft.         Not allowed
 
      (2)   Maximum number of sleeping quarters per building shall be four
units. Total building and parking shall not cover more than 50% of the total
lot area. Minimum required lot width at the building line shall be 100 feet.
Developments with more than one building shall utilize the same lot size ratio
in calculating total development land area requirements.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998; Ord. 784-12, passed 8-13-2012)
§ 153.073 APPROVAL OF MULTI-FAMILY AND GROUP FAMILY UNITS.
   The Planning Commission must approve all multi-family unit plans and group-
family plans in order to protect the integrity of the neighborhood and to
ensure that proposed apartments will utilize equal or superior building
materials in order to conform to the adjacent structures.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998; Ord. 784-12, passed 8-13-2012)
§ 153.074 ACCESS.
   The following requirements shall apply in the Residential Districts:
   (A)   Vehicular access shall be provided to the property from an abutting
street or alley.
   (B)   Driveways shall be provided for convenient access to the living area.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998; Ord. 784-12, passed 8-13-2012)
§ 153.075 COMMON PROPERTY OWNERSHIP AND PRIVATE STREETS.
   (A)   If a subdivision, created under the subdivision regulations, contains
common property or private streets then the property owners shall enter into an
agreement providing for the ownership and maintenance of the common property
and private street(s) for so long as held in such capacity. Such agreement
shall be approved by the Planning Commission, it shall be recorded after
approval in the office of the County Court Clerk with the real estate records.
The agreement shall contain, as a minimum, the following:
      (1)   The names of the owners of the common property or private streets;
      (2)   A metes and bounds legal description of the property, including
source of title, comprising the subdivision containing the common property or
private streets;
      (3)   Terms providing for the proper care and maintenance of the common
property or private streets;
      (4)   A sketch plan of the proposed development at a scale of one inch
equals 100 inches or less clearly showing the development and the designated
common property or private streets.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall impose or create liability on the part
of the Planning Commission or the legislative bodies for the care, maintenance
or ownership of the common property or private streets.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998; Ord. 784-12, passed 8-13-2012)
MANUFACTURED HOME RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (MH-1)
§ 153.085 PERMITTED USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following principal uses and structures are permitted:
   (A)   Single-family dwellings.
   (B)   Class A manufactured homes and placed on a permanent foundation.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.086 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following accessory uses and structures are permitted:
   (A)   Uses and structures customarily accessory and clearly incidental to
any residential use shall be permitted provided they meet the same requirements
as set forth in the RS District of this chapter.
   (B)   Parks, playgrounds, community centers, open space, golf courses,
shuffleboard courts, swimming pools, tennis courts, game rooms and libraries
used exclusively for residents of this subdivision.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.087 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses are declared to possess such characteristics of unique or
special form, nature of operation, extent or limited application that each
specific use shall be subject to written approval of the Board of Zoning
Adjustments in accordance with the provisions of this chapter: churches and
other places of worship; parish houses; public libraries, schools offering a
general education course; child care centers; nurseries; day-care centers; and
kindergartens; public parks and non-commercial public recreational facilities;
municipal, county, state or federal uses; public utilities; private hospitals
for human care; philanthropic institutions and philanthropic clubs, The Board
of Zoning Adjustment may attach conditions to its approval which it feels are
necessary requirements in order to preserve and protect the character of the
district in which the proposed use would be located.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.088 PROHIBITED USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following uses and structures shall be prohibited:
   (A)   Camping trailer, travel trailer, pickup coach or auto camper shall not
be occupied as living quarters.
   (B)   Manufactured homes sales.
   (C)   Professional offices, fraternity, sorority or fraternal associations,
lodging or rooming houses.
   (D)   Motels, hotels and tourist courts.
   (E)   No advertising sign other than those specifically permitted under
sections of this chapter.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.089 DIMENSIONAL AND AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The following minimum land areas shall apply in this district:
      (1)   Each manufactured home residential subdivision shall contain a
minimum of five contiguous acres of land and a minimum of ten lots. Development
of a smaller tract of land adjacent to an existing manufactured home
subdivision may be permitted if:
         (a)   The proposed development conforms to and extends the original
manufactured home subdivision; and
         (b)   The proposed development otherwise conforms to all of the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Minimum lot area.
      (1)   The minimum lot area of one-fourth of one acre or more if connected
to a public sanitary sewage disposal system; or
      (2)   The minimum lot area of seven-tenths of one acre or more if
connected to an on-site sanitary sewage disposal system approved by the Health
Department.
   (C)   The minimum lot width at building setback line shall be 75 feet.
   (D)   The maximum lot area coverage with structures and parking shall be
50%.
   (E)   Yard regulations. The following yard sizes shall apply in this
district:
      (a)   Minimum side yard width to each side lot line shall be ten feet.
      (b)   Minimum rear yard setback shall be 25 feet.
      (c)   The minimum front yard setback shall be: one-half width of right-
of-way, but in no case less than 25 feet except as provided in this chapter.
   (F)   Height regulations. No structure shall exceed 35 feet in height,
except as otherwise provided in the additional height and area regulations of
the residential districts of this chapter.
   (G)   Parking regulations. Two off-street parking spaces shall be provided
for each manufactured home lot.
   (H)   Sewer requirements. All manufactured homes shall be connected to the
public sanitary sewage system or an on-site sanitary sewage disposal system
approved by the Health Department.
   (I)   Water requirements. All manufactured homes shall be connected to the
public water supply system.
   (J)   Street access and design standards.
      (1)   General requirements. The manufactured home subdivision shall be
located with direct to a public street and shall have a minimum of 50 feet of
frontage. Entrances and exits for the manufactured home subdivisions shall be
designed for safe and convenient vehicular to and from abutting public streets.
All traffic into and out of the manufactured home subdivision shall only be
through entrances and exits approved under the provisions of this article with
a maximum of two points. No entrance or exit for a manufactured home
subdivision shall have an intersection angle less than 80 degrees and the radii
of curbs and pavements at intersections shall not be less than 35 feet.
      (2)   The individual lots within the manufactured home subdivision shall
not be located with direct to the public streets except those streets within
the subdivision approved under this subchapter.
      (3)   Development involving new or additional streets or any public
dedication of land shall be subject to Planning Commission review and approval,
as provided in the subdivision regulations.
   (K)   Development standards. In addition to the standards set forth in this
chapter, each manufactured home subdivision shall comply with all appropriate
provisions of the subdivision regulations.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.090 RESTRICTIONS.
   Any mobile/manufactured home located in an MH-1 Zone must adhere to the
following restrictions:
   (A)   Permanent underpinning (block/brick).
   (B)   Front and back porch (minimum five by five).
   (C)   No later than five years of age from date manufactured.
   (D)   Conforming to the neighborhood.
   (E)   Zone change approval required by Planning and Zoning Board.
   (F)   Meets all other zoning ordinances pertaining to setbacks, parking, and
the like.
   (G)   Wheels/towbar removed.
   (H)   Set on blocks.
   (I)   Any used out-of-state homes will require an inspection prior to
placement on permanent foundation.
(Ord. 877-23, passed 9-11-2023)
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK DISTRICT (MH-2)
§ 153.100 PERMITTED USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following principal uses and structures are permitted:
   (A)   Single-family Class A and Class B manufactured homes.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.101 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following accessory uses and structures are permitted:
   (A)   Parks, playgrounds, community centers, and non-commercial recreational
facilities such as golf courses, shuffleboard courts, swimming pools, tennis
courts, game rooms and libraries.
   (B)   One caretaker’s or manager’s dwelling; this dwelling may contain a
caretaker’s or manager’s office if no building is constructed or utilized for
this purpose in accordance with this subchapter.
   (C)   One service building to house services for occupants of the
manufactured home park only, including management office, restrooms, vending
machines, postal facilities, laundry and dry cleaning facilities and recreation
facilities accessory to the manufactured home park, also maintenance equipment
storage facilities directly related to the manufactured home park.
   (D)   Any other accessory building or structure which is clearly incidental
to any aforementioned principal use.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.102 PROHIBITED USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following uses and structures shall be prohibited:
   (A)   Camping trailers, travel trailers, pickup coaches or auto campers
shall not be occupied as living quarters.
   (B)   Manufactured home sales.
   (C)   Professional offices, fraternity, sorority or fraternal associations,
lodging or rooming houses.
   (D)   Motels, hotels and tourist courts.
   (E)   Billboards; no advertising sign other than those specifically
permitted under sections of this chapter.
   (F)   Manufactured home subdivisions.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.103 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND ZONING APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   Concurrently with the filing of an application for a zoning map
amendment for a manufactured home park, a general development plan as provided
for in §§
153.205 through
153.220 must be submitted to the Planning Commission.
   (B)   A building permit, if required, shall not be issued for construction
of any manufactured home park except in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   Certificates of zoning compliance required. A certificate of zoning
compliance shall be necessary before occupancy of any manufactured home or the
placement of any home, or occupancy of any other structure in a manufactured
home park and shall be issued only when the Zoning Administrator determines
that the structures, manufactured home spaces, manufactured home stands, open
space, streets and other improvements and uses conform with the approved
development plan.
   (D)   Construction deadline. If construction is not initiated within three
years from the date of approval of the development plan by the Planning
Commission, an application to revert the manufactured home park zoning map
amendment may be initiated by the Planning Commission, unless an extension is
granted by the Planning Commission. Any action to revert the zoning map
amendment to its original zoning classification which originates as a result of
the provisions of this section shall be taken in the same manner as the
original zoning map amendment. Failure of the Planning Commission to commence
action to revert the zoning map classification immediately after the three
years shall not prevent the Commission from taking such action at a later date.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.104 DIMENSIONAL AND AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   Minimum area of park. Each manufactured home park shall contain a minimum of
five contiguous acres of land and 25 manufactured home spaces. Development
adjacent to an existing manufactured home park may be permitted if:
   (A)   Proposed development conforms to and extends the original manufactured
home park;
   (B)   The proposed tract is in identical ownership to the original
manufactured home park;
   (C)   Proposed development site is properly zoned;
   (D)   Proposed development otherwise conforms to all of the standards and
requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.105 MINIMUM SPACE AREA AND WIDTH.
   (A)   The minimum width at the building line for a single-family
manufactured home shall be 50 feet.
   (B)   The minimum lot size shall be 5,000 square feet.
   (C)   Manufactured homes shall be separated from each other and from any
building by at least 20 feet.
   (D)   Any accessory structure whether attached or detached, such as an
awning, cabana, storage cabinet, carport, windbreak, and porch shall be
separated from any other manufactured home or building by at least 20 feet.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.106 MINIMUM OPEN SPACE AREAS.
   In each manufactured home park there shall be provided one or more areas
which shall be easily accessible to all park residents. The design criteria for
the open space shall be as follows:
   (A)   The size of such open space area shall be equal to a minimum of 400
square feet for each manufactured home;
   (B)   The open space area shall be so located as to be free of traffic
hazards and should be centrally located.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.107 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   All manufactured home spaces and permitted accessory uses and
structures shall be located at least one-half the width of the right-of-way or
50 feet, whichever is greater, from any park property boundary line abutting
upon a public street and at least 25 feet from other park property boundary
lines.
   (B)   There shall be a minimum distance of 20 feet between the manufactured
home stand and the edge of the abutting internal park street.
   (C)   All manufactured home parks shall be provided with visual screening
such as fences or natural growth along the property boundary line separating
the park and other land uses. The Planning Commission shall specifically
approve the screening specifications.
   (D)   The manufactured home park shall be located with direct to an arterial
or collector street as from time to time designated by the Planning Commission
and shall have a minimum of 50 feet of frontage. Entrances and exits for
manufactured home parks shall be designed for safe and convenient vehicular to
and from abutting public streets. All traffic into and out of the manufactured
home park shall only be through entrances and exits approved under the
provisions of this subchapter. No entrance or exit for a manufactured home park
shall have an intersection angle less than 75 degrees and the radii of curbs
and pavements at intersections shall not be less than 35 feet.
   (E)   All manufactured home spaces and permitted accessory uses and
structures must front on an internal park street only.
   (F)   Internal park streets. All internal streets shall meet the following
minimum requirements:
      (1)   All internal streets shall have a minimum width of 18 feet with no
on-street parking or 24 feet with on-street parking.
      (2)   Dead-end streets shall be limited in length to 600 feet and shall
be provided at the closed end with a cul-de-sac having a minimum diameter of 80
feet.
      (3)   All manufactured home spaces shall be placed so that the
manufactured home can be moved on or off the manufactured home stand without
moving any other manufactured home.
   (G)   Off-street parking areas or on-street parking lanes shall be provided
for the use of park occupants and guests. Such areas shall be accessible by
motor vehicles from the internal park street and shall:
      (1)   Be furnished at a rate of at least 600 square feet for each
manufactured home unit located on an internal street providing on-street
parking, or at a rate of at least 900 square feet for each manufactured home
unit located on an internal street not providing on-street parking.
      (2)   In addition to the parking requirements of this division (G), an
additional 300 square feet for each five units shall be provided for guest
parking, and for delivery and service vehicles. These spaces may be clustered.
      (3)   All parks shall be equipped with lighting units which shall comply
with the minimum recommended standards contained in the American Association of
State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO) publication entitled,
“Information Guide for Roadway Lighting.”
      (4)   All streets within the manufactured home park shall conform to the
street construction and design standards of the subdivision regulations.
   (H)   The area of the manufactured Home stand shall be improved to provide
adequate support for the placement and tie down of the manufactured home,
thereby securing the superstructure against uplift, sliding, rotation, and
overturning. The manufactured home stand shall not heave, shift or settle
unevenly under the weight of the manufactured home due to frost action,
inadequate drainage, vibration or other forces acting on the structure. The
manufactured home stand shall be provided with permanent anchors and tie down
which shall secure the stability of the manufactured home.
   (I)   Each manufactured home placed within the manufactured home park shall
be secured in such a manner as to prevent the uplift, sliding, rotation, or
over turning of the superstructure.
   (J)   All manufactured home parks shall be served by a public water system
that can provide adequate water service and, if within the city, fire
protection.
   (K)   All manufactured home parks shall be attached to a public sanitary
sewer system or an approved package sanitary sewage treatment system approved
by the Health Department. No on-site sanitary sewage system, including a septic
tank system, shall be permitted.
   (L)   The manufactured home park shall conform to the storm water
requirements of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.108 MANUFACTURED HOME PARK EXPANSIONS AND CONVERSIONS.
   For existing parks, properly zoned desiring to expand their operation onto
contiguous land or to convert existing single family spaces into two-family
spaces, the following shall apply:
   (A)   Any extension, expansion or conversion proposals shall be processed,
developed, and constructed according to the most current standards and
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any extension or expansion of existing parks shall be required to file
a detailed development plan.
   (C)   Conversions of spaces in existing parks shall require the filing of a
detailed development plan or amending its original development plan.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.109 MISCELLANEOUS REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The manufactured home park owner shall be responsible for operating
the park in compliance with this chapter meeting all standards and requirements
herein, and shall be responsible for and provide adequate supervision to
maintain the park, its facilities and equipment in good repair and in a clean
and sanitary condition.
   (B)   Manufactured home placement. The manufactured home park owner shall
supervise and be responsible for the placement of each manufactured home on its
manufactured home stand in accordance with this chapter which includes, but is
not limited to securing the stability of the manufactured home and installing
all utility connections.
   (C)   Manufactured home space numbering. The manufactured home park owner
shall number each manufactured home space and shall submit a plan of the
manufactured home park with each space numbered thereon to the Allen County 911
Coordinator, Allen County Sheriff’s Office, Planning Commission, ambulance
service, the Fire Department within the district where the manufactured home
park is located and the Scottsville Police Department, if located within the
corporate limits of Scottsville. If the numbering of the manufactured home
spaces shall change, the manufactured home park owner shall submit changes to
the entities set forth above.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT (B-1)
§ 153.115 USES PERMITTED.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the Downtown Business District:
   (A)   Any use permitted in the Residential Districts;
   (B)   Any business use that is not otherwise prohibited by this chapter;
   (C)   Churches and other places of worship.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.116 USES PROHIBITED.
   The following uses shall be prohibited in the Downtown Business District:
   (A)   Any business which is primarily of wholesale, storage or warehousing
nature.
   (B)   Live animal or poultry sales, gasoline, oil, or alcohol storage above
ground in excess of 1,100 gallons, light industrial uses as defined in this
chapter and heavy industrial uses as defined in this chapter.
   (C)   Manufactured home park or manufactured home subdivision.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.117 REQUIRED LOT AREA AND YARD AREA.
   (A)   There shall be no minimum lot size or lot width in this district.
   (B)   All buildings on lots adjacent to a residential zone shall be located
so as to conform on the adjacent side with the yard requirements for
residential districts.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.118 HEIGHT.
   Buildings more than 70 feet in height, may be permitted in the Downtown
Business District provided such buildings are approved by the Kentucky
Department of Public Safety and certified to the Building Inspector prior to
the issuance of a building permit.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.119 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses are declared to possess such characteristics of unique or
special form, nature of operation, extent or limited application that each
specific use shall be considered an individual case and shall be subject to
written approval of the Board of Zoning Adjustments in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   Printing, publication or engraving, child care centers, nurseries, day
care centers and kindergartens.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (B-2)
§ 153.125 USES PERMITTED.
   Any use permitted in the Downtown Business District shall be permitted uses
in the General Business District.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.126 ACCESSORY USES PERMITTED.
   Accessory uses and buildings customarily accessory and incidental to any
permitted principal use shall be permitted, except of a type which is expressly
prohibited in this district as a principal use.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.127 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   Processes and equipment employed and goods processed or sold shall be
limited to those which are not objectionable by reason of odor, dust, smoke,
cinders, gas fumes, noise, vibration, refuse matter or water-carried waste.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.128 PROHIBITED USES.
   Any use prohibited in the Downtown Business District shall be prohibited in
the General Business District.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.129 REQUIRED LOT AREA AND YARD AREA.
   (A)   All buildings intended for residential use in whole or in part shall
comply with the area and yard requirements of the MF District.
   (B)   All buildings on lots adjacent to a residential district shall be
located so as to conform on the adjacent side with the yard requirements for
residential districts.
   (C)   All buildings intended for commercial use in whole shall have a
minimum lot size of one- fourth acre or more if connected to a public sanitary
sewage disposal system seven-tenths of one acre or more if connected to an on-
site sanitary sewage disposal system approved by the Health Department. Minimum
width at the building line shall be 50 feet.
   (D)   There shall be no side or rear setbacks, other than meeting building
and fire codes, if located adjacent to business or industrial districts. The
general provisions of this chapter for building line setback shall apply for
other setback requirements.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.130 OFF-STREET PARKING, LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   All buildings shall provide space for off-street parking, loading and
unloading in conformance the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.131 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Child care centers, nurseries, day care centers and kindergartens are uses
declared to possess such characteristics of unique or special form, nature of
operation, extent or limited application that each specific use shall be
considered an individual case and shall be subject to written approval of the
Board of Zoning Adjustments, or Planning Commission when filed concurrently
with a zone change request, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.132 PROVISIONS RELATING TO SHOPPING CENTERS.
   The following provisions apply to shopping centers:
   (A)   A development plan as provided in this chapter shall be approved by
the Planning Commission for all shopping centers. Each development plan shall
include each of the items set forth in this section for the Planning
Commission’s review and approval.
   (B)   The ground area occupied by all buildings shall not exceed in the
aggregate 40% of the total area of the lot or tract.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, there shall be
provided four and one- half parking spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross area
available for lease provided for each shopping center.
   (D)   For purposes of computing the area of parking spaces available for a
shopping center, the ratio of 300 square feet per parking space shall be used.
The parking space shall include both the parking stall and the adjacent passage
way.
   (E)   Vehicular locations shall be provided so that vehicles entering or
departing a planned shopping center site shall do so only at specified
locations. Elsewhere along the property lines of the planned shopping center
site a physical separation between the site and public rights-of-way shall be
provided. A vehicular location shall consist of such entrance and exit driveway
openings so designed and located as to minimize hazardous vehicular turning
movements and traffic congestion.
   (F)   Access ways and parking areas shall be lighted adequately by lighting
fixtures which shall be so installed as to reflect light away from adjoining
properties.
   (G)   Where a shopping center abuts or is contiguous to any Residential
District, without an intervening public street, but with or without an
intervening alley, there shall be provided, as a part of the development plan
provided for in this chapter, landscaping, including screening, to assist in
the prevention of the transmission of light and noise from within the planned
shopping center.
   (h)   Section
153.003 shall not apply internally to the shopping center provided ample
evidence is presented to the Planning Commission that permanent easements have
been granted the tenant/land or building owners. Evidence shall be considered
ample by filing a copy of the master deed, easement or other legal documents
which subsequently will be filed at the Allen County Court Clerk’s office.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS (I-1)
§ 153.140 USES PERMITTED.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the Light Industrial District:
   (A)   Any use permitted in the General Business District;
   (B)   Wholesale distribution or sales, storage or warehouse, building
material yard, cabinet making, carpenter shop, ice plants, printing or
engraving plants, trucking terminals, shops of general trade, machine shops,
welding shops, automobile body shops, sales of feed, sales of grain and sales
of agricultural machinery or supplies.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.141 REQUIRED LOT AREA AND YARD AREA.
   (A)   Minimum lot size of one-fourth of one acre or more if connected to a
public sanitary sewage disposal system seven-tenths of one acre or more if
connected to an on-site sanitary sewage disposal system approved by the Health
Department Minimum width at the Building Line shall be 50 feet.
   (B)   No side or rear setbacks, other than meeting building and fire codes,
if located adjacent to Business or Industrial Districts. On lots adjacent to a
Residential District, all buildings shall be so located to provide a minimum
side yard of 25 feet as between buildings in the industrial area. Streets or
public right-of-way 30 feet or more in width may be included as the side yard
requirement of this chapter relating to building line setback shall apply for
other setback requirements.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.142 HEIGHT.
   No building shall exceed 70 feet in height.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.143 OFF-STREET PARKING, LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   All buildings shall provide space for off-street parking, loading and
unloading in conformance with §§
153.001 through
153.017.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.144 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses are declared to possess such characteristics of unique or
special form, nature of operation, extent or limited application that each
specific use shall be considered an individual case and shall be subject to
written approval of the Board of Zoning Adjustments in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter: child care centers, nurseries, day care centers and
kindergartens when operated in conjunction with a business or industry located
in the I-1 District, tobacco processing, central mixing plants for asphalt,
cement or mortar.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.145 PROHIBITED USES AND STRUCTURES.
   Manufactured home park, or manufactured home residential shall not be
permitted in this district.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (I-2)
§ 153.155 PERMITTED USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Any use permitted in the I-1 District, provided that no structure
shall be used, erected, altered, enlarged or constructed for any dwelling use.
   (B)   Any use not in conflict with any other local ordinance and which would
not emit detrimental or obnoxious noise, vibrations, smoke, odors, dust or
other objectionable conditions beyond the confines of its property.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.156 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   The following uses are declared to possess such characteristics of
unique or special form, nature of operation, extent or limited application that
each specific use shall be considered an individual case and shall be subject
to written approval of the Board of Zoning Adjustments in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter:
      (1)   Child care centers, nurseries, day care centers and kindergartens
when operated in conjunction with a business or industry located in the Heavy
Industry District.
      (2)   Bag-cleaning; boiler and tank works; central mixing plant for
cement, mortar, plaster, or paving materials; coke oven; curing, tanning and
storage of rawhides and skins; distillation of bones, coal, wood or tar; fat
rendering; forge plant foundry or metal fabrication plant; slaughter house or
stockyards; smelting plant; and the manufacture of acetylene, acid, alcohol or
alcoholic chemicals, brick, pottery, terra-cotta or tile; candles;
disinfectant; dye stuffs; fertilizers; illuminating or heating gas (or storage
of same); linseed oil, paint, oil, turpentine, varnish, soap and tar products,
and any use which in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator may emit
detrimental or obnoxious noise, vibrations, smoke, odors, dust or other
objectionable conditions beyond the confines of its property.
      (3)   Restricted motor vehicle dealers, and vehicle, machinery and
material recyclers. All restricted motor vehicle dealers, and vehicle,
machinery and material recyclers must comply with the Commonwealth of Kentucky
Motor Vehicle Commission and Department of Highways statutes and regulations.
   (B)   A conditional use may be granted if the proposed use will not extend
its detrimental or obnoxious effects beyond the limits of the Light Industry or
Heavy Industrial Districts in which it is located, or that such use will not be
located within 300 feet from any Residential District, or within 100 feet from
any other district except a Light Industry District.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998; Ord. 680-00, passed 10-16-2000)
§ 153.157 PROHIBITED USES AND STRUCTURES.
   Any residential use, manufactured home park or manufactured home shall not
be permitted in this district.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.158 LOT AREA AND YARD AREA.
   (A)   Minimum lot size shall be 5,000 square feet.
   (B)   No side or rear setbacks, other than meeting building and fire codes,
if located adjacent to Business or Industrial Districts. On lots adjacent to a
Residential District, all buildings shall be located so as to provide a minimum
side yard of 50 feet on the side adjacent to the Residential District. Streets
or public rights-of-way 30 feet or more in width may be included as the side
yard requirement of this section.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.159 HEIGHT.
   No building shall exceed 70 feet in height.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.160 REQUIREMENT FOR SANITARY SEWER.
   Either a public sanitary sewer or a private package sanitary sewage system
approved by the Health Department shall be available for property in this
district and all buildings located thereon shall be connected to such sanitary
sewer.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.161 OFF-STREET PARKING, LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   All buildings shall provide space for off-street parking, loading and
unloading in conformance with this chapter.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
§ 153.170 INTENT.
   This subchapter provides content-neutral sign standards that allow
legitimate signage for agricultural, residential, professional office,
business, and industrial activities while promoting signs that:
   (A)   Reduce intrusions and protect property values;
   (B)   Minimize undue distractions to the motoring public;
   (C)   Protect the tourist industry by promoting a pleasing community image;
and
   (D)   Enhance and strengthen economic stability.
(Ord. 872-23, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 153.171 SCOPE.
   These provisions apply to the display, construction, erection, alteration,
location, and maintenance of all new and existing signs within the city.
(Ord. 872-23, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 153.172 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions contained in this section shall be applied in the
interpretation of all sections within this subchapter, except where the context
clearly indicates otherwise. Words used in the present tense shall include the
future tense, singular number shall include the plural, and plural include the
singular.
   ABANDONED SIGN. Signage that has been neglected and fallen into disrepair.
   ATTRACTION BOARD. Copy is changed manually or electronically on a regular
basis.
   AWNING SIGN. Applied directly to the surface of an awning; defined as a
shelter supported entirely on a wall and made of non-rigid material supported
by a frame.
   BANNER SIGN. Made of non-rigid material with no enclosing framework.
   BILLBOARD. Signage intended for lease to a variety of businesses,
organizations, and/or individuals. In such case, the sign itself shall be the
income generator and the primary commercial use of the property.
   BULLETIN BOARD. Allows the manual or electronic change of copy and is used
to notify the public of noncommercial events or occurrences such as church
services, political rallies, civic meetings, or similar events.
   CANOPY SIGN. Applied directly to the surface of a canopy; defined as a
permanently roofed shelter covering a sidewalk, driveway, or similar area.
CANOPIES may be supported by a building, columns, poles, braces, or a
combination of both.
   DOUBLE-FACED SIGN. Two faces either set parallel or up to a 45 degree angle.
Any two sign faces set at an angle greater than 45 degrees shall be considered
two separate signs.
   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE DISPLAY SYSTEM. Copy which uses rotating reflective
discs, direct illumination, rotating veins, light emitting diodes (LEDs),
liquid crystal diodes (LCDs), or other digital devices and is changed by a
central computer.
   FARM. A tract of at least ten contiguous acres used for the production of
agricultural or horticultural crops. AGRICULTURAL AND HORTICULTURAL CROPS shall
be defined as, but not limited to, livestock, livestock products, poultry,
poultry products, grain, hay, pastures, soybeans, tobacco, timber, orchard
fruits, vegetables, flowers, ornamental plants, vineyards, and wineries.
   FLASHING OR BLINKING. Intermittent or sequential illumination for the
purpose of attracting attention to the sign.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. Attached to the ground by columns, poles, braces, or
other means and not attached to any building.
   GOVERNMENT SIGN. Temporary or permanent, erected by government employees or
officers in the performance of their professional/elected duties.
   HANDBILL. Printed or written material, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, or
booklet designed for distribution on vehicles or other property, excluding
postal distribution, which advertises merchandise, commodities, or services.
   ILLEGAL SIGN. Does not meet the requirements of this subchapter and has not
been identified as a legal, nonconforming sign.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. Emits or reflects artificial light from any source.
      (1)   DIRECTLY ILLUMINATED. Lighted by an unshielded light source
(including neon tubing) which is visible as a part of the sign and where light
travels directly from the source to the viewer’s eye.
      (2)   INDIRECTLY ILLUMINATED. Light source projects light onto the
exterior of the sign surface or onto the building where the sign is located.
      (3)   INTERNALLY ILLUMINATED. Light source is within the sign, with a
transparent or translucent background or cover which silhouettes letters or
designs.
   INCIDENTAL SIGN. Not exceeding two square feet in area.
   INTERSTATE SIGN. Sign that is designed to be seen from an interstate
highway.
   MARQUEE SIGN. Used in conjunction with a theater, is attached to the
building, and projects from the building.
   MENU BOARD. Freestanding signs placed at properties where there is a drive-
thru lane, walk-up window or drive-up curbside.
   MOBILE SIGN. Affixed to a frame having wheels or capable of being moved.
MOBILE SIGNS do not have a permanent foundation and cannot withstand the wind-
load stress requirements of the adopted building code as they are designed to
stand free from a building. The removal of wheels from such a sign or
temporarily securing a sign of this type shall not prevent it from being
classified as a mobile sign within this definition. This includes signage
placed in a truck bed or on a trailer designed to be pulled behind a vehicle.
   MONUMENT SIGN. Attached to a permanent foundation or decorative base and not
attached to or dependent for support from any building, pole, post, or similar
upright.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN. Legally erected but does not comply with the current
regulations for the zone in which it is located.
   NON-ILLUMINATED SIGN. Does not emit or reflect artificial light from any
source.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Small sign, easily transported by hand, placed outside during
business hours and brought into the business after hours, usually tent style or
A-frame.
   PROJECTING SIGN. Attached to a building, extends more than 24 inches.
   ROOF SIGN. Projects above the cornice of a flat roof or the ridgeline of a
gabled or hipped roof. In determining the top edge of the roof, calculation
shall not include cupolas, pylons, chimneys, or other projections above the
roofline.
   ROTATING OR MOVING SIGN. Any portion of which moves by mechanical means or
the wind; does not refer to changing copy with an electronic message display
system.
   SIGN. Any copy, including material used to differentiate the copy from the
background, which is applied to a surface as a means of identifying,
advertising, announcing, or illustrating products, services, and/or events.
   SIGN CLEARANCE. The vertical distance between the lowest point of any sign
and the grade at the base of the sign.
   SIGN COPY. Any word, figure, number, symbol, or emblem affixed to a sign.
   SIGN HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the highest point of the
sign, including the frame and any embellishments, to the bottom of the base of
the sign.
   SIGN SETBACK. The horizontal distance between any street right-of-way and a
sign. The measurement shall be taken at the closest point between the right-of-
way and any part of the sign.
   SIGN SURFACE. That part of the sign on which the message is displayed.
   SQUARE FOOT. A unit of area equal to one foot by one foot square.
   STREET FRONTAGE. Property line that lies adjacent to street right-of-way.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A banner, pennant, poster, or advertising display
constructed of paper, cloth, canvas, plastic sheet, cardboard, wallboard,
plywood, or other like materials and that appears to be intended to be
displayed for a limited period of time. They are intended to be displayed for
not more than 14 continuous days or more than eight times per calendar year.
   VEHICLE SIGNAGE. Signage painted directly on a vehicle or attached
magnetically.
   WALL SIGN. Attached directly to a building; includes mansards, canopies,
awnings, and signs attached to a roof which do not project above the roofline.
   WINDOW DISPLAY. Merchandise or other objects placed inside a building to be
viewed from outside the building.
   WINDOW SIGN. Attached to or located within three feet of the interior of a
window and which can be seen through the window from the exterior of the
structure.
(Ord. 872-23, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 153.173 EXEMPT SIGNS.
   The following signs are exempt from the provisions of this subchapter and
are, therefore, exempt from the requirement to obtain a sign permit.
   (A)   Signs not visible beyond the boundaries of the property upon which
they are located.
   (B)   Government signs that are placed by government officers in the
performance of their professional/elected duties.
   (C)   Temporary or permanent signs erected by public utility companies or
construction companies in the performance of their professional duties.
   (D)   Vehicle signage when painted directly on a vehicle or attached
magnetically.
   (E)   Temporary signage of three square feet or smaller placed on or after
April 1 and removed by the last day of May. Temporary signage of three-square
feet or smaller placed on or after the first day of September 20 and removed by
November 15.
   (F)   Temporary signs for a new business for up to 30 consecutive days from
the first day of business. Exempt signage shall only be displayed on the
property where the new business is located.
   (G)   Signage placed by realtors in the performance of their professional
duties. Signs may be displayed 30 days prior to auction and must be removed
within two working days after completion of auction. This exception shall not
apply to any other rights-of-way but city rights-of-way.
   (H)   Window signage.
(Ord. 872-23, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 153.174 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit requirements.
      (1)   No sign regulated by this subchapter (except those specifically
exempted in division (B) below) shall be displayed, erected, relocated, or
altered unless all necessary permits have been issued by the Scottsville-Allen
County Planning and Zoning. Applicants shall submit an application form to the
department before any permit may be issued.
      (2)   Property owner shall obtain a certificate of appropriateness from
the Historical Preservation Commission (HPC) for signage proposed within the
Historic District Overlay (HDO). Applications are available in the Planning and
Zoning.
      (3)   Signs shall only be erected or constructed in compliance with the
approved permit.
      (4)   Applicants shall obtain a building permit for the footer of
freestanding and monument signs. Applicants shall also obtain an electrical
permit for signs that require electrical service. Final inspections for
building permits and electrical permits require a minimum notice of 24 hours to
the city’s building inspector and/or state electrical inspector.
      (5)   Signs permitted as an accessory to a legal, nonconforming use shall
be subject to the regulations of the zone in which the nonconforming use is
located.
   (B)   Signs exempt from permit requirements. The following signs shall not
require a permit.
      (1)   Incidental signs.
      (2)   Historic markers.
      (3)   Change of copy on any sign where the framework or other structural
elements are not altered.
(Ord. 872-23, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 153.175 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   A legal, nonconforming sign may continue in existence as long as it is
properly maintained in good condition.
   (B)   These provisions shall not prevent the repair or restoration to a safe
condition of any sign, but a nonconforming sign shall not be:
      (1)   Changed to another nonconforming sign except where only the face or
copy is changed;
      (2)   Structurally altered so as to increase the degree of nonconformity
of the sign;
      (3)   Expanded or enlarged;
      (4)   Reestablished after its removal; or
      (5)   Moved to a new location on the building or lot.
(Ord. 872-23, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 153.176 ILLEGAL SIGNS.
   All illegal signs shall be subject to immediate enforcement action as
outlined in §
153.231 of the Scottsville-Allen County Planning and Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 872-23, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 153.177 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All signs in all zones shall meet the following requirements.
   (A)   Illuminated signs shall be located in a fashion which prevents all
direct rays of light from shining beyond the property lines of the lot on which
the sign is located.
   (B)   No light, sign, or other advertising device shall be designed or
erected to imitate or resemble any official traffic sign, signal, or device or
use any words, phrases, symbols, or characters implying the existence of
danger, or the need to stop or maneuver the vehicle.
   (C)   No sign shall be attached to or painted on the surface of any tree,
utility pole, or streetlight.
   (D)   Projecting signs shall have at least seven feet of clearance above a
road or sidewalk.
   (E)   Neon or other lighted tubing signs shall not be permitted except where
such lighting is used behind solid lettering to produce a “halo” effect, or
where it is used indirectly. Neon lighting shall not be used to outline
buildings, structures, or ornamental features.
   (F)   No sign, except for government signs, shall be located within the
sight triangle of any intersection.
   (G)   No sign shall be placed in or project into the public or private
street right-of-way, except as specifically permitted herein.
   (H)   Freestanding, monument, and projecting face sign area shall be
computed as follows:
      (1)   Double-faced signs shall have only one face counted in calculating
the area.
      (2)   Sign with more than two faces shall have the area calculated by
summing the area of all sign faces and dividing by two.
      (3)   The area enclosing the perimeter of each cabinet shall be
calculated to determine the area.
      (4)   The perimeter of the measurable area shall not include
embellishments (e.g., pole covers, framing, or decorative roofing) provided
there is no written copy on such embellishments.
      (5)   Maximum height shall be measured from the finished grade at the
center of the sign and shall include the sign’s base.
   (I)   Every sign, including those for which a permit is not required, shall
be maintained in good condition at all times.
(Ord. 872-23, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 153.178 PROHIBITED SIGNS IN ALL ZONES.
   The following signs and/or sign features shall be prohibited in all zones.
   (A)   Mobile signs;
   (B)   Roof signs that extend higher than the top of the roof;
   (C)   Rotating or moving signs;
   (D)   Abandoned signs;
   (E)   Streamers, pennants, and tag signs or similar signs or devices except
when attached to a permitted temporary sign;
   (F)   Any sign which emits any noise or odor;
   (G)   Freestanding signs which overhang any part of a building;
   (H)   Flashing or blinking signs;
   (I)   Billboards with an electronic message display system;
   (J)   Signs in a public right-of-way; and
   (K)   Handbills.
(Ord. 872-23, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 153.179 SIGNS REQUIRING A CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT IN ALL ZONES.
   (A)   Signs painted directly on a building.
   (B)   Only the Board of Zoning Adjustments shall have the authority to
approve sign variances or conditional use permits for signs unless the request
is made to the Planning Commission in conjunction with a development plan.
Applications for these signs shall be submitted and processed as outlined in
this chapter.
   (C)   Historical Committee to approve paintings/murals in Historical
District.
(Ord. 872-23, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 153.180 SIGNS PERMITTED BY SPECIFIC ZONE.
   (A)   Any sign not specifically permitted shall be prohibited.
   (B)   Agricultural Zone (A-1).
      (1)   Residence. One wall sign not exceeding one square foot in area.
Every parcel shall be entitled to one sign not exceeding 36 square inches in
area to be placed in any of the following locations:
         (a)   On the front of every building, residence or structure;
         (b)   On each side of an authorized U.S. Postal Service mailbox; and
         (c)   On one post which measures no more than 48 inches in height and
four inches in width.
      (2)   Farm.
         (a)   Two signs per entrance if incorporated into a fence or wall
feature, or one freestanding sign per entrance. Signs shall not exceed 32
square feet in area each.
         (b)   Incidental signs, which shall not exceed two square feet in area
nor require sign permits.
      (3)   Buildings used for religious or educational activities.
         (a)   One freestanding sign not exceeding 32 square feet in area and
eight feet in height.
         (b)   One bulletin board, not exceeding 12 square feet in area and
eight feet in height.
         (c)   One wall sign per building not exceeding 32 square feet in area.
         (d)   Incidental signs which shall not exceed two square feet in area
and do not require sign permits.
      (4)   All other conditional uses.
         (a)   One freestanding sign for any other permitted or conditional use
not noted herein; signage shall not exceed 32 square feet in area and eight
feet in height.
         (b)   One wall sign that shall not exceed 12 square feet in area, and
eight feet in height.
   (C)   Mobile Home (MH) Zone.
      (1)   One freestanding sign per park entrance. Sign shall not exceed 32
square feet in area, eight feet in height, and shall have a minimum setback of
20 feet from any street.
      (2)   One nameplate wall sign per mobile home that shall not exceed one
square foot in area.
   (D)   Low-Density Residential Zones (R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-1D and R-1E).
      (1)   Residence. One nameplate wall sign not exceeding one square foot in
area.
         (a)   One wall sign not exceeding one square foot in area.
            1.   Every parcel shall be entitled to one sign not exceeding 36
square inches in area to be placed in any of the following locations:
               a.   On the front of every building, residence or structure;
               b.   On each side of an authorized U.S. Postal Service mailbox;
and
               c.   On one post which measures no more than 48 inches in height
and four inches in width.
      (2)   Home occupation. One wall sign not exceeding six square feet in
area.
      (3)   Subdivision. One freestanding sign per entrance into the
subdivision not to exceed 32 square feet in area and eight feet in height.
      (4)   Buildings used for religious or educational activities.
         (a)   One freestanding sign that shall not exceed 32 square feet in
area and eight feet in height;
         (b)   One wall sign that shall not exceed 12 square feet in area;
         (c)   One bulletin board that shall not exceed 12 square feet in area
and eight feet in height; and
         (d)   Incidental signs which shall not exceed two square feet in area
nor require sign permits.
      (5)   All other conditional uses.
         (a)   One freestanding sign that shall not exceed 32 square feet in
area and eight feet in height;
         (b)   One wall sign that shall not exceed 12 square feet in area; and
         (c)   Incidental signs which shall not exceed two square feet in area
nor require sign permits.
   (E)   High-Density Residential Zones (R-2, R-3, R-4, R-5, and R-6).
      (1)   Single family residence. All single-family homes within these zones
shall comply with the signage regulations for low-density residential zones
regulated under division (D) above.
      (2)   Multi-family residence. Multi-family residential buildings and
conditional uses may have:
         (a)   One freestanding sign that shall not exceed 32 square feet in
area and eight feet in height and shall have a front yard setback of 20 feet;
         (b)   One wall sign that shall not exceed 12 square feet in area; and
         (c)   Incidental signs which shall not exceed two square feet in area
nor require sign permits.
      (3)   Buildings used for religious or educational activities.
         (a)   One freestanding sign that shall not exceed 32 square feet in
area and eight feet in height;
         (b)   One wall sign per building that shall not to exceed 12 square
feet in area;
         (c)   One bulletin board that shall not exceed 12 square feet in area
and eight feet in height; and
         (d)   Incidental signs which shall not exceed two square feet in area
nor require sign permits.
   (F)   Standard signage permitted in all Professional, Commercial and
Industrial Zones (P-1, B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, I-1, and I-2).
      (1)   One freestanding or monument sign per street frontage with a
maximum of two signs per lot.
         (a)   Freestanding signs shall not exceed 75 square feet in area, 25
feet in height, and shall have a minimum setback of ten feet. When street
frontage permits two signs, the two freestanding signs may be combined into one
freestanding sign that shall not exceed 110 square feet in area. For buildings
with more than one occupying business this freestanding sign may list all
businesses within the building.
         (b)   Monument signs shall not exceed 60 square feet in area, eight
feet in height, and shall have a minimum setback of ten feet.
      (2)   One wall sign, canopy sign or awning sign per street frontage with
a maximum of two signs per building. The maximum allowed area for all signage
in this category is 32 square feet or 15% of the wall area to which the sign,
canopy or awning is attached, whichever is greater. Awnings shall have at least
seven feet of clearance when folly extended. When a building contains two or
more separate businesses, these requirements shall be applied separately to the
wall area of the portion of the building occupied by the individual business.
      (3)   One wall sign per tenant or lessee not exceeding two square feet in
area.
      (4)   One attraction board either attached to the wall or attached to the
permitted freestanding sign not to exceed 32 square feet in area and eight feet
in height.
      (5)   One menu board for every property that includes a drive-thru lane,
walk-up window or drive-up curbside. Menu boards shall not exceed 55 square
feet in area and shall have a maximum height of eight feet.
      (6)   Temporary signs. Shall include banners, streamers, tethered
balloons, and inflatable signs and objects. One temporary sign per street
frontage shall be allowed subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   Shall not exceed 50 square feet per sign where non-rigid
materials are used.
         (b)   Shall not exceed 32 square feet per sign where rigid materials,
such as wallboard or plywood, are used.
         (c)   Shall comply with the applicable regulations for the zone in
which they are located.
         (d)   Shall not remain in place for a period of more than 14
continuous days.
         (e)   Shall not be displayed for more than a total of eight times in
any calendar year.
         (f)   Shall not be placed within the public right-of-way or the sight
triangle at intersections.
      (7)   Incidental signs. Which shall not exceed two square feet in area
nor require sign permits.
      (8)   Buildings used for religious or educational activities.
         (a)   In addition to signage permitted above, one bulletin board, not
exceeding 32 square feet in area and eight feet in height.
         (b)   Signs with electronic message display systems shall be
prohibited in the P-1 (Professional Office), B-1 (Neighborhood Business) and B-
2 (Downtown Business) districts. Electronic message display systems may be
incorporated into one freestanding or wall sign for each property located
within the B-3, B-4, I-1, and I-2 zones.
   (G)   Additional signage permitted in specific Commercial and Industrial
Zones.
      (1)   Downtown Business Zone (B-2). In addition to the signage permitted
in division (F) above, the following signs shall be permitted:
         (a)   Permanent sidewalk sign. Where a building is located adjacent to
the public right-of-way, one non-illuminated, freestanding sign may be
permanently placed on the public sidewalk with the following restrictions:
            1.   Sign shall not exceed five and one-half square feet in area.
            2.   The edge of the sign shall not extend beyond the curb line.
            3.   The maximum dimensions of the support frame shall not exceed
eight square feet in area (maximum 48 inches wide or 36 inches high).
            4.   The bottom of such support shall be seven feet above the
sidewalk and the vertical support shall be 24 inches from the curb.
         (b)   Portable sign. One shall be permitted for each business entrance
subject to the following restrictions:
            1.   Maximum surface area of the sign shall be six square feet per
face, maximum height of the sign shall be three feet, and maximum width of the
sign shall be two feet.
            2.   A minimum 36 inches wide pedestrian travel-way shall be
maintained on the sidewalk. Signs may be designed with a changeable face and
shall be removed from the public sidewalk: when the business is closed.
      (2)   Highway Business Zone (B-3). In addition to the signage permitted
in division (F) above, the following signs shall be permitted. Shopping center
malls larger than 100,000 square feet may have one freestanding sign per street
frontage with a maximum of 250 square feet per sign face and a maximum height
of 30 feet. All other shopping malls may have one freestanding sign per street
frontage with a maximum of 75 square feet per sign face and a maximum height of
25 feet.
      (3)   General Business, Light Industrial, and Heavy Industrial Zones (D-
4, I-1, and I-2). In addition to the signage permitted in division (F) above,
the following signs shall be permitted:
         (a)   Shopping center malls larger than 100,000 square feet may have
one freestanding sign per street frontage with a maximum of 250 square feet per
sign face and a maximum height of 30 feet. All other shopping malls may have
one freestanding sign per street frontage with a maximum of 75 square feet per
sign face and a maximum height of 25 feet.
         (b)   One billboard shall be permitted subject to the following
restrictions:
            1.   The sign shall not have an electronic message display system.
            2.   The property on which the billboard is located shall abut a
federal or state highway.
            3.   The sign shall be the principal use; there shall be no other
buildings, freestanding signs, and the like, on the lot.
            4.   Signage face shall not exceed 720 square feet in area.
            5.   The sign shall be located no closer than 300 feet to any other
structure.
            6.   The sign shall be at least 150 feet away from any residential
zone or residential use.
            7.   There shall be a 40-foot setback requirement from any right-
of-way.
            8.   Maximum height shall be 35 feet.
   (H)   Planned Development (PD) Zone. A permitted sign’s height, size,
location, and design features shall be determined by the sign requirements set
forth in the zone in which the proposed or existing use is first permitted.
(Ord. 872-23, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 153.181 MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   Every sign, including those signs for which a permit is not required, shall
be maintained in good condition at all times.
(Ord. 872-23, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 153.182 SUBSTITUTION CLAUSE.
   The owner of any sign which is otherwise allowed by this subchapter may
substitute noncommercial speech in lieu of any other commercial speech or
noncommercial speech. This substitution of copy may be made without any
additional approval or permitting. The purpose of this provision is to prevent
any inadvertent favoring of commercial speech over noncommercial speech or
favoring of any particular noncommercial speech over any other noncommercial
speech. This provision prevails over any more specific provision to the
contrary.
(Ord. 872-23, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 153.183 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   Violation of the provisions of these sign regulations shall constitute a
misdemeanor which shall be subject to the fines and penalties for violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. 872-23, passed 6-26-2023)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 153.185 CREATION AND APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   A Board of Adjustment is hereby created which shall be known as the
Scottsville - Allen County Board of Adjustment, in accordance with KRS Chapter
100. The Board shall have powers, duties and responsibilities set forth in KRS
Chapter 100.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five citizen members, all of
whom must be citizen members and no more than two members of whom may be
citizen members of the Planning Commission. Two of the members shall be county
members and the remaining three members shall be city members. The Mayor of the
City of Scottsville shall appoint the city members and the Judge/Executive of
Allen County shall appoint the county members subject to approval of the
respective legislative bodies.
   (C)   Subject to the provisions of KRS 100.217, the terms of office shall be
four years ending on June 30 of the designated year. The Board of Adjustment
shall otherwise be organized and operated in accordance with KRS Chapter 100.
   (D)   The area of jurisdiction of the Board of Adjustment shall include all
land within Scottsville and Allen County.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.186 APPEALS; HOW TAKEN.
   An appeal to the Board of Zoning Adjustment may be taken by any person, firm
or corporation aggrieved, or by any governmental officer, department, board or
bureau affected by any decision of the Administrative Official or any Zoning
Enforcement Officer. Such appeal shall be taken within 30 days after the person
affected by the decision of the Administrative Official or any Zoning
Enforcement Officer or his or her agent receives notice of the action appealed
from by filing with the Board of Adjustment and with said Officer a notice of
appeal, specifying the ground thereof and giving notice of such appeal to any
and all parties of record. The Administrative Official or other Officer shall
forthwith transmit to the Board all papers constituting the record upon which
the action appealed was taken and he shall be treated as and be the respondent
in such further proceedings. The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable
time for the hearing of an application for conditional use or for the hearing
of an appeal. At any hearing by the Board any interested person may appear and
enter his or her appearance, and all shall be given an opportunity to be heard.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.187 POWERS.
   The Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers:
   (A)   Administrative review.
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged by the appellants
that there is an error in any order, requirement, permit, decision,
determination, or refusal made by the Administrative Official or other
administrative official in carrying out or enforcement of any provision of this
chapter; and for interpretation of the zoning map. The concurring vote of three
members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse or modify any order,
decision or determination of the Administrative Official. A pass vote which is
cast on any matter before the Board of Adjustment shall have no force or effect
and shall not count as a vote with the majority of votes cast.
      (2)   In reviewing an administrative appeal the Board of Adjustment shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards
specified in other sections of this chapter; and:
         (a)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (b)   The danger that storage materials may be swept onto other lands
to the injury of others;
         (c)   The danger that storage materials may be swept into the
underground stream system and cause pollution or injury to others;
         (d)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage;
         (e)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         (f)   The safety of to the property in times of flood for ordinance
and emergency vehicles;
         (g)   The cost of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
      (3)   Appeals shall not be taken without accompanying engineering studies
which adequately address each of the items contained in this chapter.
      (4)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
flood hazard area.
   (B)   Conditional use. The Board shall have the power to hear and decide
applications for conditional use permits to allow the proper integration into
the community of uses which are specifically named in the zoning regulations
which may be suitable only in specific locations in the zone only if certain
conditions are met:
      (1)   The Board may approve, modify, or deny any application for a
conditional use permit. If it approves such permit it may attach necessary
conditions such as time limitations, requirements that one or more things be
done before the request can be initiated, or conditions of a continuing nature.
Any such conditions shall be recorded in the Board’s minutes and on the
conditional use permit, along with a reference to the specific section in the
zoning regulation listing the conditional use under consideration. The Board
shall have power to revoke conditional use permits for noncompliance with the
condition thereof. Furthermore, the Board shall have a right of action to
compel offending structures or uses removed at the cost of the violator and may
have judgment in personam for such cost.
      (2)   Granting of a conditional use permit does not exempt the owner from
complying with all of the requirements of building, housing and other
regulations.
      (3)   In any case where a conditional use permit has not been exercised
within the time limit set by the Board, or within one year, if no specific time
limit has been set, such conditional use permit shall not revert to its
original designation unless there has been a public hearing. EXERCISED, as set
forth in this section, shall mean that binding contracts for the construction
of the main building or other improvement have been let; or in the absence of
contracts that the main building or other improvement is under construction to
a substantial degree, or that prerequisite conditions involving substantial
investment under contract, in development, are completed. When construction is
not a part of the use, EXERCISED shall mean that the use is in operation in
compliance with the conditions as set forth in the permit.
      (4)   In addition to, or where other standards, criteria and other items
for consideration are not cited within the individual zoning district the
following shall be considered as standards for review and findings of fact in
the record of each public hearing for the granting of a conditional use permit:
         (a)   That the use is essential to or would promote the public health,
safety or welfare in one or more zones, but which would impair the integrity
and character of the zone in which it is located, or in adjoining zones, unless
restrictions on location, size, extent, and character of performance are
imposed in addition to those imposed in the zoning regulation;
         (b)   That the use will not contribute toward an overburdening of
public services such as streets, fire protection, ambulance service or
utilities;
         (c)   That the use will not result in increased traffic congestion,
additional parking problems, substantial increase in population density,
environmental problems, or constitute a nuisance;
         (d)   That the use is a matter of public need or convenience;
         (3)   That the use is otherwise in agreement with the chapter.
      (5)   The concurring vote of three members of the Board of Adjustment
shall be necessary to grant a conditional use. A pass vote which is cast on any
matter before the Board of Adjustment shall have no force or effect and shall
not count as a vote with the majority of votes cast.
      (6)   A conditional use permit will be required for any facility or
operation providing child care, guidance or supervision for which a license is
required from the Cabinet for Human Resources. This does not apply to religious
organizations providing child care, guidance or supervision while religious
services are being conducted or to kindergarten programs operated as a part of
a public educational system. When considering child-care centers, nurseries,
day-care centers and kindergartens, the Board of Adjustment shall require as a
minimum the following standards to be provided for each facility:
         (a)   The lot shall contain an open space area of not less than 100
square feet per child.
         (b)   A solid wall or adequate security fence not less than four feet
high is maintained along all interior lot lines which separate play areas from
adjacent properties.
         (c)   A letter from the Fire Marshal and the Kentucky Department of
Human Resources, Bureau of Social Services or their successor agency certifying
to the Board of Adjustment that this use complies with the requirements of that
agency. This documentation must be supplied to the Board of Adjustment prior to
issuance of a certificate of occupancy. There shall be no construction or
alteration of any facility to be used as a child care center, nursery, day care
center or kindergarten until approval of such facility has been granted by the
Board of Adjustment under this section.
         (d)   Adequate and safe on-site parking, loading and unloading areas
and driveways providing for safe ingress and egress with backing into the
street specifically prohibited.
         (e)   Outdoor play area which lies within or adjoins any Residential
District shall be buffered by landscaping or a solid privacy fence. The Board
of Adjustment may set hours or otherwise limit outdoor play times for any
facility located within a Residential District or adjacent to a residential
structure.
   (C)   Variance.
      (1)   The Board shall have the power to hear and decide on applications
for variances. The Board may impose any reasonable conditions or restrictions
on any variance it decides to grant.
         (a)   Before any variance is granted, the Board must find that the
granting of the variance will not adversely affect the public health, safety or
welfare, will not alter the essential character of the general vicinity, will
not cause a hazard or a nuisance to the public, and will not allow an
unreasonable circumvention of the requirements of the zoning regulations. In
making these findings, the Board of Adjustment shall consider whether:
            1.   The requested variance arises from special circumstances which
do not generally apply to land in the general vicinity, or in the same zone;
            2.   The strict application of the provisions of the regulation
would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of the land or would create
an unnecessary hardship on the applicant; and
            3.   The circumstances are the result of actions of the applicant
taken subsequent to the adoption of the zoning regulation from which relief is
sought.
         (b)   The Board shall deny any request for a variance arising from
circumstances that are the result of willful violations of the zoning
regulation by the applicant subsequent to the adoption of the zoning regulation
from which relief is sought.
            1.   All variance applications must be accompanied by a survey
prepared by a surveyor licensed in Kentucky locating existing buildings and
property boundary lines and new or intended new structures shall be shown by
broken lines. Inspection of the location shall be made before the date of the
public hearing by the Administrative Official.
            2.   The concurring vote of three members of the Board shall be
required to grant a variance. A pass vote which is cast on any matter before
the Board of Adjustment shall have no force or effect and shall not count as a
vote with the majority of votes cast.
         (c)   The Board does not possess the power to permit a use prohibited
by this chapter.
   (D)   Notice requirements.
      (1)   When a conditional use hearing is scheduled before the Board of
Adjustment, or Planning Commission as empowered by this chapter, the following
notice shall be given in addition to any other notice required by statute,
local regulations or ordinance:
         (a)   Notice of the hearing as required by KRS Ch. 424.
         (b)   Notice of the hearing shall be given at least 14 days in advance
of the hearing by certified mail to the owner of every parcel of property
adjoining the property upon which this use is proposed to be established. It
shall be the duty of the person or persons proposing the conditional use to
furnish to the Planning Commission the names and addresses of the owners of all
adjoining property. Records maintained by the Property Valuation Administrator
may be relied upon conclusively to determine the identity and address of the
owner. If the property is in condominium or cooperative forms of ownership, the
person notified by mail shall be the president or chairman of the owner group
which administers property commonly owned by the condominium or cooperative
owners. A joint notice may be mailed to two or more co-owners of an adjoining
property who are listed in the Property Valuation Administrator’s records as
having the same address.
         (c)   Notice of the hearing shall be posted conspicuously on the
property the conditional use is proposed for 14 consecutive days immediately
prior to the hearing.
      (2)   When a variance hearing is scheduled before the Board of
Adjustment, or Planning Commission as empowered by this chapter, the following
notice shall be given in addition to any other notice required by statute,
local regulations or ordinance:
         (a)   Notice of the hearing as required by KRS Ch. 424.
         (b)   Notice of the hearing shall be given at least 14 days in advance
of the hearing by certified mail to the owner of every parcel of property
adjoining the property upon which this use is proposed to be established. It
shall be the duty of the person or persons proposing the variance to furnish to
the Planning Commission the names and addresses of the owners of all adjoining
property. Records maintained by the Property Valuation Administrator may be
relied upon conclusively to determine the identity and address of the owner. If
the property is in condominium or cooperative forms of ownership, the person
notified by mail shall be the president or chairman of the owner group which
administers property commonly owned by the condominium or cooperative owners. A
joint notice may be mailed to two or more co-owners of an adjoining property
who are listed in the Property Valuation Administrator’s records as having the
same address.
      (3)   When an appeal hearing is scheduled before the Board of Adjustment,
the following notice shall be given in addition to any other notice required by
statute, local regulations or ordinance:
         (a)   Notice of the hearing as required by KRS Ch. 424.
         (b)   Notice of the hearing shall be given at least 14 days in advance
of the hearing by certified mail to the owner of every parcel of property
adjoining the property upon which this use is proposed to be established. It
shall be the duty of the person or persons making the appeal to furnish to the
Planning Commission the names and addresses of the owners of all adjoining
property. Records maintained by the Property Valuation Administrator may be
relied upon conclusively to determine the identity and address of the owner. If
the property is in condominium or cooperative forms of ownership, the person
notified by mail shall be the president or chairman of the owner group which
administers property commonly owned by the condominium or cooperative owners. A
joint notice may be mailed to two or more co-owners of an adjoining property
who are listed in the Property Valuation Administrator’s records as having the
same address.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
AMENDMENT PROCEDURE
§ 153.195 PROCEDURES FOR HEARINGS BEFORE THE CITY COUNCIL IN MATTERS REGARDING
ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS.
   (A)    It is hereby declared the intent and policy and recommendation of the
City Council that proponents and opponents of zoning matters have all their
witnesses, exhibits, and other evidence introduced at the hearing held by the
City-County Planning and Zoning Commission, and it is further declared that any
hearings to be held before the City Council are not to be a substitute for the
hearing before the City-County Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (B)   After the Planning and Zoning Commission hearing, granting, or denying
a request for a zoning map amendment, the County Fiscal Court may conduct a
first reading of an ordinance approving the Planning and Zoning Commission’s
recommendation and proceed to advertise for a second and final reading thereon.
Said advertising and the notice for a second and final reading and
consideration shall comply all appropriate notice provisions, including, the
notice requirements of KRS 424 and KRS 83A.
   (C)   Within ten days after the Planning and Zoning Commission hearing, or,
at any time prior to the second and final reading at the ordinance referred to
in division (B) above, but before and not on the same
day as the final reading occurs, any party objecting to the recommendation of
the Planning and Zoning Commission may file, in the office of the City Clerk,
and in the office of the Mayor, with copies to the County Attorney and the
City-County Planning and Zoning Commission, a notice of opposition to the
recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission and request a hearing
thereon.
      (1)   Said notice shall be styled “notice of opposition to Planning and
Zoning Commission recommendation and request for hearing”. This notice in this
section be referred to as the “notice”.
      (2)   The notice shall also be mailed, return receipt requested, to the
original applicant for the zoning map amendment, or, said applicant’s attorney;
or, if the notice is filed by the original applicant, the notice shall be
mailed, return receipt requested, to all owners of property adjoining the
property the classification of which is proposed to be changed. Certifications
of mailing and/or deliveries under this section shall be set forth in the
notice and copies of the notice with return receipts shall be filed with the
Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (3)   The notice shall state the date and time the request for a hearing
will be made, as described in division (E) below.
   (D)   (1)   The party filing the notice referred to in this section shall
contemporaneously with filing the notice, transmit a copy of the transcript, if
a court reporter was present at the meeting of the Planning and Zoning
Commission, or in the absence of a transcript then the minutes of such meeting,
to the Mayor, each of members of the City Council, and the City Attorney. Said
transcript shall be prepared at the party’s expense who filed the notice and
shall be hand-delivered to the recipients named or mailed to them, registered
mail return request requested.
      (2)   The notice shall certify that the transcript has been transmitted
according to the requirements of this section. In the event a transcript cannot
be prepared within the time limits set forth by this section, the City Council
may grant additional time for good cause shown.
   (E)   At the next regular meeting of the City Council, after the receipt of
the transcript by the City Council and the City Mayor, but not less than seven
days after receipt of said transcript, the party filing the notice shall appear
before the City Council and make a request for a hearing thereon.
   (F)   (1)   The City Council, after notice is filed, and after the
transcript has been received as provided in this section, and after a personal
request for a hearing is made, may vote to have a hearing, and if so,
shall designate the type of hearing to be held, to-wit: a de novo trial type
hearing or a hearing on the record before the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (2)   In the event the City Council decides, by a majority vote to have a
hearing, the following shall apply.
         (a)   No later than 20 days prior to the trial type hearing or the
hearing on the record, referred to in this division (F), the original applicant
for the zoning map amendment, shall furnish to the Planning and Zoning
Commission a current list of the names and addressed of all owners of property
adjoining the property the classification of which is proposed to be changed.
         (b)   The notice requirements of KRS 100.212 and all other
requirements of the Kentucky Revised Statutes as to notices shall apply.
         (c)   Said hearing shall be held not later than 60 days from the date
the notice is filed in the office of the City Clerk.
   (G)   In the alternative, the City Council may refuse and/or decline to
grant a hearing and proceed with the readings of the ordinance approving the
recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission. In order for the parties
filing the notice and requesting the hearing to receive said hearing, it is
necessary that a majority of the members of the City Council present vote to
have said hearing.
   (H)   (1)   All costs incurred by reason of the appeal and/or request for
review set forth in this section shall be paid by the party filing the notice.
      (2)   Said costs shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   Cost of transcript;
         (b)   Cost of publication of notices required by this section and/or
commonwealth law;
         (c)   Cost of republication of notices necessitated by virtue of the
appeal and/or request for review; or
         (d)   Incidental costs of hearing such as printing and postage.
      (3)   The City-County Planning and Zoning Commission is hereby authorized
to compute said costs in advance, including any reasonably anticipated costs to
the City Council, and is hereby authorized to charge and collect said amount
from the party filing the notice, at the time the notice is filed or at any
time thereafter. The City-County Planning and Zoning Commission may require
payment of said costs in advance of the decision of the City Council to grant
or decline the requested hearing for the zoning map amendment.
   (I)   Pursuant to KRS 100.212, it shall take a majority of the entire City
Council to override the recommendation of the City-County Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   (J)   Failure to abide by this section may be grounds for the City Council
to refuse to grant a hearing to the party seeking such hearing.
(Ord. 666-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.196 IN GENERAL.
   Such regulations, restrictions and boundaries as are provided for in this
chapter may be amended, supplemented, changed, modified or repealed in
accordance with KRS Chapter 100.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.197 APPLICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   Applications for amendment to the official zoning maps shall be made
only in accordance with this subchapter.
      (1)   Initiation of amendment applications for amendment of the zoning
maps may be initiated by:
         (a)   The Planning Commission;
         (b)   The legislative body within the county having zoning authority
over an affected property;
         (c)   The owner of the property in question.
      (2)   The procedures for those amendments to the zoning map originating
with the Planning Commission or the legislative body shall be as prescribed in
KRS 100.211.
      (3)   Prior to formal application for amendment of the zoning maps, the
applicant, and/or his or her attorney, must hold a conference with the Planning
Commission staff to discuss the effect of the Comprehensive Plan, this chapter,
the subdivision regulations and other land development controls on the proposed
development. The preapplication conference shall include discussions of
apparent characteristics of the site that would affect the proposed
development. In addition, the preapplication conference may be utilized for
discussing whether a general development plan should be submitted with the
application for amendment of the zoning map. No application will be accepted
for a public hearing prior to the preapplication conference being held, and no
preapplication conference may be scheduled for any day which is a filing
deadline.
      (4)   Amendment application. Application for amendment of the official
zoning maps shall be filed with the Planning Commission in accordance with the
Planning Commission by-laws and this chapter and shall contain the following:
         (a)   Demonstration of appropriateness. Any application for amendment
to the official zoning map shall be submitted with a written detailed
explanation as to the following:
            1.   How the proposed map amendment would conform to the
Comprehensive Plan;
            2.   Why the original zoning classification of the property in
question was inappropriate or improper;
            3.   What major economic, physical, or social changes, if any, have
occurred in the vicinity of the property in question that were not anticipated
by the Comprehensive Plan and which have substantially altered the basic
character of the area, which make the proposed amendment to the zoning map
appropriate. The explanation for this section shall include:
               A.   A list of such specific changes.
               B.   A description as to how said changes were not anticipated
by the Comprehensive Plan.
               C.   A description as to how said changes altered the basic
character of the area.
               D.   A description as to how said changes make the proposed
amendment to the official zoning map appropriate.
      (5)   A description as to how utilities and essential public services
will be provided to the property in question.
      (6)   Property owners signature. All applications for amendment to the
official zoning map shall:
         (a)   Be signed by all persons necessary to convey in fee simple
absolute the property in question or the attorney for all such persons;
         (b)   Identify all lessees, option-holders and developers of the
subject property;
         (c)   Identify all attorneys who will represent the applicants before
the Planning Commission;.
      (7)   An accurate boundary survey of the property in question shall be
filed with the application and shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Owner/applicant name; scale; bearings and distances; locating
distance (to nearest road/railroad center line or right-of-way); north arrow;
rights-of-way of road; adjacent property owners (showing property lines);
acreage of property; Kentucky Registered Land Surveyor’s stamp and vicinity
map.
      (8)   Responsibility for accuracy. The applicant shall be responsible for
the accuracy of the information filed and shall demonstrate that the identity
of all adjoining property owners is made known to the Planning Commission by
him or her as part of the zoning maps amendment application.
   (B)   Applications for variances or conditional uses and may be filed
concurrently with the application for zoning map amendment on the same property
to be considered by the Planning Commission for a zoning map amendment.
      (1)   In the event the applicant elects to file for a variance or
conditional use under this chapter, the Planning Commission shall hold the
public hearing concurrently with the zoning map amendment. In the event the
applicant fails to file for a variance or conditional use concurrently with the
zoning map amendment application, then they shall file an application with the
Board of Adjustment for the variance or conditional use.
      (2)   Each requested variance or conditional use filed under this section
shall be considered as separate applications and shall otherwise be
administered, advertised and handled in accordance with the requirements of
this chapter and KRS Ch. 100 except that the notice by mail for the zoning map
amendment shall include the notice for the variance or conditional use shall
state that these items will be concurrently heard by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall assume all the powers and duties
otherwise exercised by the Board of Adjustment in considering a conditional use
or variance but shall only have this authority when subject conditional use or
variance is being considered concurrently with the property being considered
for a zoning map amendment, except that it shall take four concurring votes of
the Planning Commission to approve a variance or conditional use.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
DEVELOPMENT PLAN PROVISIONS
§ 153.205 IN GENERAL.
   (A)   As a condition to the granting of any amendment to the official zoning
map the Planning Commission is authorized to require the submission of a
development plan. The development plan shall be filed in accordance with the
provisions and requirements of this subchapter. Where agreed upon, this
development plan shall be followed and shall be binding on all parties. A
development plan may be either a general development plan or a detailed
development plan or both as specified by this subchapter.
   (B)   All references herein to the filing and approval of an initial
development plan shall include all amendments thereto.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.206 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The development plan is a review procedure whereby the Planning Commission
may determine the character and objectives of the proposed development in order
to ascertain the following:
   (A)   Impact the development will have on capacity of community facilities
and services.
   (B)   Impact the development will have on the character of the neighborhood.
   (C)   Impact the development will have on the neighborhood and community.
   (D)   The general development plan is intended to demonstrate to the
Planning Commission the character and objectives of the proposed development in
adequate detail for the Planning Commission to evaluate the proposed
development and to determine what shall be binding on the use and development
of the property in question.
   (E)   A detailed development plan is intended to contain specific plans for
developing the property in question including implementation of the binding
elements of an approved general development plan.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.207 AGREEMENT TO DEVELOPMENT PLAN CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The filing of a development plan shall constitute an agreement between
the Planning Commission and the persons signing the application, their heirs,
successors, personal representatives and assigns that:
      (1)   If the zoning map amendment is enacted the binding elements of the
development plan will be strictly adhered to;
      (2)   Building permits for improvements of the property in question shall
be applied for and issued only when in conformance with the binding elements of
the development plan. The filing for a building permit not in conformance with
these provisions shall constitute a breach of agreement enforceable by the
Planning Commission or appropriate legislative body.
   (B)   The binding elements placed on the general development plan shall be
strictly complied with and be enforceable in the same manner as any of the
elements of this chapter.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.208 DEVELOPMENT PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General development plan.
      (1)   A general development plan shall be filed with the application for
an amendment to the official zoning maps.
      (2)   The general development plan filed with an application for an
amendment to the official zoning maps shall be considered as a binding element
of the zoning map amendment.
      (3)   The above provision notwithstanding, where property is already in
use for single-family residence, a general development plan is not required to
accompany an application for an amendment to the zoning map from Agriculture to
the most restrictive zone classification which would permit the existing
single-family residence. Applications filed under this provision shall not
expand the area presently in actual use for single-family residence. The
presence of one or more vacant lots of one acre or less which are surrounded on
at least two sides by lots actually in use for single-family residences shall
not be deemed an expansion of the area.
      (4)   A general development plan shall be filed when the use, topography
or elevation of any lot is changed, regardless of the current zone, except when
the intended change in elevation is to create or re-establish the use of a
lagoon for agricultural purposes. The developer shall file an application, pay
all applicable fees to the Planning Commission, and submit four copies of the
development plan containing all materials, which are required by this chapter.
The Planning Commission Chair, or the Vice-Chair, in the absence of the Chair,
may approve the development plan if it meets all the requirements set forth in
this chapter. If the Chair or Vice-Chair declines to approve the general
development plan then the general development plan will be presented for action
at the next regular meeting of the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Detailed development plan required.
      (1)   Prior to the issuance of building permits or the commencement of
construction, a detailed development plan shall be approved by the Planning
Commission for all zoning districts except the Agricultural District with no
conditional use permit.
      (2)   When a detailed development plan is required in the binding
elements of the general development plan may be conceptual in nature with more
specific aspects of these elements designated on the detailed development plan
when submitted.
   (C)   General development plan alternative. The Planning Commission may
accept a preliminary subdivision plan in lieu of a general development plan for
proposed zoning map amendments.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998; Ord. 674-00, passed 2-14-2000)
§ 153.209 PUBLIC NOTICE.
   A general development plan concerning this amendment to the official zoning
map may be filed by the applicant up to 12 days prior to the date of the public
hearing before the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.210 ELEMENTS OF DETAILED DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   When a detailed development plan is required by this chapter the development
plan shall contain the following information:
   (A)   Name of development, name and addresses of owners, developers,
engineers, surveyors and architects; vicinity map with accurate measurements to
existing streets, date, scale, source of title and north arrow.
   (B)   Existing topography with a contour interval not greater than two feet
unless specifically waived by the Planning Commission. Proposed contours with a
contour interval corresponding to the existing contour interval may also be
required.
   (C)   Names of adjacent subdivisions, together with the names and addresses
of its owner(s) and the names and addresses of owners of adjacent non-
subdivided land.
   (D)   Names, location, arrangement and dimensions of all existing platted
streets, driveways or other public ways within or adjacent to the property and
existing utility easements.
   (E)   Names, location, arrangement and dimensions of proposed streets and
driveways or other public ways, including width of rights-of-way, parking areas
(including total area of off-street parking), points of ingress and egress and
sight distances of all entrances to existing streets.
   (F)   Building setback lines or building envelopes whichever is appropriate.
   (G)   Preliminary size and location of all proposed underground utilities
lines for water, sewer, gas, telephone, and cable television if applicable.
   (H)   Provisions for handling surface water drainage within the project and
surrounding area including drainage courses to natural waterways, or sinks and
size and location of detention areas.
   (I)   Copy of proposed property owners association covenant or master deed
or restrictions if applicable.
   (J)   Lot size and location.
   (K)   Height, floor area and arrangement of proposed buildings or
structures; and number of dwelling units.
   (L)   Location of all existing buildings, structures and parking.
   (M)   Boundary survey including area and bearings and dimensions of all
exterior property lines.
   (N)   When mixed uses are proposed, show location of these uses by general
type, i.e., commercial, industrial, office and residential.
   (O)   Existing tree masses, significant rock outcroppings, streams, flood
plains, and other natural features.
   (P)   Provisions for landscaping if applicable.
   (Q)   Recreational and open space area if applicable.
   (R)   Proposed stages of development if applicable, and the anticipated time
required to develop each stage.
   (S)   Marketing or traffic study if applicable.
   (T)   All development plans shall be drawn to a sufficient scale to clearly
delineate the applicant’s proposed use and development of the subject property.
Such scale shall be indicated on the development plan.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.211 ENACTMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Planning Commission action.
      (1)   The procedure for obtaining a zoning map amendment shall be the
same defined in KRS Chapter 100 and in addition, as follows:
         (a)   If no general development plan is submitted with a zoning map
amendment application, then the Planning Commission shall hold at least one
public hearing and shall vote either to recommend approval or denial of the
zoning map amendment and shall forward such recommendation to the appropriate
legislative body for final action.
         (b)   If a general development plan is submitted with a zoning map
amendment application, then a general development plan public hearing shall be
conducted concurrently with the zoning map amendment public hearing.
         (c)   If a general development plan is not submitted with a zoning map
amendment application but is subsequently filed in accordance with this
subchapter, then a general development plan public hearing shall be conducted
concurrently with the zoning map amendment public hearing.
         (d)   Following the concurrent public hearing the Planning Commission
shall then first vote on the general development plan and following such vote
shall then vote on the zoning map amendment.
         (e)   The Planning Commission may approve with binding elements or
disapprove the general development plan.
         (f)   If the Planning Commission approves the general development plan
with binding elements and recommends approval of the zoning map amendment, then
the approved zoning map amendment shall be forwarded to the appropriate
legislative body for final action.
         (g)   If the Planning Commission approves the general development plan
with binding elements and recommends disapproval of the zoning map amendment,
then the disapproved zoning map amendment shall be forwarded to the appropriate
legislative body for final action.
         (h)   If the Planning Commission votes disapproval of the general
development plan and votes to recommend disapproval of the zoning map
amendment, then the recommendation for disapproval of the zoning map amendment
shall be forwarded to the appropriate legislative body for final action.
         (i)   If the Planning Commission disapproves the general development
plan and recommends approval of the zoning map amendment, then the Planning
Commission shall set out in writing the changes that will render the general
development plan acceptable.
            1.   A.   The Planning Commission shall forward its findings to the
applicant in writing within 15 days of the Planning Commission action. The
applicant may submit a revised general development plan within 15 days of the
date of the Planning Commission vote to disapprove the general development
plan.
               B.   If no amended general development plan is filed within said
15-day period, then the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing,
advertised pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, and shall vote to recommend disapproval
of the zoning map amendment then the disapproved zoning map amendment shall be
forwarded to the appropriate legislative body for final action.
            2.   If an amended general development plan with binding elements
which addresses each of the written reasons for disapproval by the Planning
Commission is submitted to the Planning Commission within 15 days of its action
to disapprove the general development plan, then the Planning Commission shall
hold a public hearing, advertised pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, to review the
amended general development plan with binding elements and shall determine
whether or not said amended general development plan with binding elements
satisfies the written reasons for disapproval. If the Planning Commission finds
the amended general development plan with binding elements does not meet the
written reasons for disapproval, then the Planning Commission shall vote to
recommend disapproval of the zoning map amendment.
            3.   The disapproved zoning map amendment shall be forwarded to the
appropriate legislative body for final action. If the Planning Commission finds
that the amended general development plan with binding elements does meet the
written reasons for disapproval then the approved zoning map amendment shall be
forwarded to the appropriate legislative body for final action.
   (B)   Detailed development plan. Within one year of the final action on the
zoning map amendment as defined by this chapter or within five years from the
date of enactment of this amendment to this chapter, where a zoning map
amendment is not required, a detailed development plan shall be submitted to
the Planning Commission for review and approval; provided, however, if the plan
is not submitted, then an application shall be filed by the Planning Commission
to revert the zoning district designation to its previous zoning designation.
Said application for reverting the zoning designation shall be processed as any
other zoning application. The detailed development plan shall conform to the
approved general development plan and to the requirements of this subchapter.
The Planning Commission shall approve the detailed development plan when it
makes a determination that the detailed development plan conforms to the
general development plan and other requirements of this subchapter.
   (C)   Condition of enactment. A condition to the enactment of any zoning map
amendment applied for pursuant to this section shall be established requiring
that building permits for improvement of any such property be issued only in
conformance with the binding elements of the general development plan or where
required a detailed development plan. Such binding elements shall be strictly
complied with and be enforceable in the same manner as this chapter.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.212 PARTIES BOUND BY BINDING ELEMENTS.
   The binding elements enacted under the provisions of this subchapter,
including any amendment thereto, shall be binding upon the owner, as of the
time of approval by the Planning Commission, his or her heirs, successors,
personal representatives, assigns, the Planning Commission and legislative
bodies.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.213 RECORDATION OF BINDING ELEMENTS.
   Following the approval of a zoning map amendment and general development
plan, or any amendment thereto, a statement of binding elements shall be filed
in the office of the Allen County Clerk. The statement of binding elements
shall contain the name of the owner as of the time of approval by the Planning
Commission, a description of the property in question, source of title, and an
numeration of the binding elements as adopted by the Planning Commission and
date of adoption and same shall be signed by the owner. The applicant shall be
responsible for the preparation of the statement of binding elements and all
fees for its recordation.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.214 AMENDMENTS TO THE ENACTED DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   Amendments to an approved development plan, including any expiration date or
binding element of a general development plan, shall require the approval of
the Planning Commission. Requests for amendment of any such plan shall be
submitted to the Planning Commission and the Commission shall act thereon
within 90 days of the receipt thereof. Amendments shall be processed in the
same manner as the original development plan. A public hearing on the proposed
amendment to the plan shall be held by the Planning Commission in the same
manner as the original development plan. Public notice of said hearing shall be
at the applicant’s expense. An amendment to any binding element for an approved
development plan shall be approved only upon a finding that:
   (A)   There have been major changes of an economic, physical or social
nature within the area of the property in question which were not anticipated
at the time of the adoption of the development plan which is being amended or;
   (B)   There have developed physical conditions which would not permit
development of property in question in accordance with the development plan
which is being amended.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.215 IMPLEMENTATION OF DEVELOPMENT PLAN AND ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   Building permits.
   (A)   Construction or the issuance of building permits for improvement on
lands on lands shall occur only in conformance with the binding elements of the
general development plan (including the development plan expiration date) which
has been approved by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Construction or the issuance of building permits for improvements on
lands shall occur only in conformance with the binding elements of that portion
of a detailed development plan (including the development plan expiration date)
which has been approved by the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Building permits issued in conflict with the binding elements of the
appropriate development plan approved by the Planning Commission or in conflict
with other applicable requirements of this chapter shall be void and of no
effect.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.216 CONFLICTS BETWEEN BINDING ELEMENTS AND ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   No binding element approved by the Planning Commission shall permit the
development or use of land in a manner prohibited by the zoning regulations. To
the extent a binding element of a development plan may purport to grant such
permission, it shall be deemed in conflict with the zoning district regulations
and be void and of no effect.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.217 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS COORDINATION.
   When a detailed development plan is required by this subchapter and
preliminary subdivision review under the subdivision regulations shall be
considered simultaneously with detailed development plan review; provided,
however, the applicant may elect to obtain preliminary subdivision plat
approval at a date following detailed development plan approval.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.218 TIME LIMIT FOR HEARING A ZONING MAP AMENDMENT.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall not consider a parcel of land, or any
portion thereof, for zoning map amendment, including amendment of binding
elements of development, until 12 consecutive months shall have elapsed from
any final action as defined in this chapter upon any application for such
zoning map amendment.
   (B)   The Planning Commission as a condition to the granting of any zoning
map amendment, shall require that substantial construction be initiated within
five years of the date of any final action upon the zoning map amendment as
defined in this chapter. If such construction is not initiated within the said
five-year period, the Planning Commission shall initiate an application to
revert the zoning map designation to its previous designation. Any action to
revert the zoning map amendment to its previous zoning classification which
originates as a result of the provisions of this section of the subchapter,
shall be taken in the same manner as any other zoning map amendment. Failure of
the Planning Commission to commence action to revert the zoning map
classification immediately after five years shall not prevent the Commission
from taking such action at a later date.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.219 TIME LIMIT FOR HEARING BEFORE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The Board of Adjustment shall not consider a parcel of land, or any portion
thereof for any variance, conditional use permit or appeal from any
administrative official until 12 consecutive months shall have elapsed form any
final action as defined in this chapter hereof upon any application for such
variance, conditional use permit or appeal from any administrative official.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.220 FINAL ACTION.
   For purposes of this subchapter, FINAL ACTION shall be defined as any final
adjudication of the application for any zoning map amendment, variance,
conditional use permit or appeal from any administrative official before the
Board of Adjustment or the Planning Commission, or the appeal from the decision
of the Board of Adjustment or the Planning Commission to any legislative body,
or the highest state or federal court to which any appeals shall be taken.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER
§ 153.230 ADMINISTRATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The establishment, expansion or diminution of a horizontal property
regime shall be subject to review and approval by the Planning Commission in
the same manner as approval of multi-family development and for development
plans as set out in this chapter.
   (B)   Conflicting ordinances and subdivision regulations of the Planning
Commission shall be subordinate to this chapter and this chapter shall be the
controlling provision.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.231 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcing officer. The provisions of this chapter shall be
administered and enforced by Administrative Official or Zoning Administrator as
are from time to time designated. Such Administrative Officials or Zoning
Administrator shall have the power to:
      (1)   Make inspection of any premises necessary to carry out the duties
of the Administrative Official and the enforcement of this chapter;
      (2)   Issue citations for violation of this chapter in accordance with
the provisions of KRS 100.991 and the procedures as set forth in KRS 431.015.
   (B)   Penalties.
      (1)   In addition to any other penalties provided in KRS 100.991, any
person or entity who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall upon
conviction, be fined not less than $10 but not more than $500 for each
conviction. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Any person, owner or agent who violates this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 for each lot or
parcel which was the subject of sale or transfer, or a contract for sale or
transfer.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.232 REMEDIES.
   In such case any building is erected, constructed, reconstructed, repaired,
converted, or maintained, or any building, structure or land is used in
violation of this chapter, the Planning Commission or any other appropriate
authority, or any adjacent or neighboring property owner who would be damaged
by such violation, in addition to other remedies may institute an injunction,
mandamus or other appropriate action of proceeding to prevent the occupancy of
such building, structure or land.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
VALIDITY OF CHAPTER; EFFECTIVE DATE
§ 153.240 CONFLICT WITH OTHER ORDINANCES AND PRIVATE DEEDS.
   In case of conflict between this chapter or any part thereof, and the whole
or part of any existing or future ordinance of the City of Scottsville and
Allen County or the whole or part of any existing or nature private covenants
or deeds, the most restrictive shall in all cases apply.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.241 VALIDITY.
   If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this chapter shall be held
to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such
holding shall not effect any other section, clause, provision, or portion of
this chapter which is not in itself invalid or unconstitutional.
(Ord. 665-98, passed 12-21-1998)
CHAPTER 154: HISTORIC PRESERVATION
Section
   
154.01   Purpose and declaration of public policy
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Historic Preservation Commission
   
154.04   Powers and duties of the Commission
   
154.05   Nominations to the National Register of Historic Places
   
154.06   Designation of landmarks, landmark sites, and historic districts
   
154.07   Approval of changes to landmarks, landmark sites, and historic
districts
   
154.08   Emergency consideration
   
154.09   Effective date
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 PURPOSE AND DECLARATION OF PUBLIC POLICY.
   (A)   The City Council finds that there is concern about the future of the
Central Business District and that the Commission has begun a Main Street
Program in cooperation with the commonwealth government to help the Central
Business District.
   (B)   The Council finds that many buildings having historic, architectural,
aesthetic, or cultural interest and value have been neglected, altered, or
destroyed, notwithstanding the feasibility and desirability of preserving and
continuing the use of such buildings and without adequate consideration of the
irreplaceable loss to the people of the Commission.
   (C)   The Council finds that neighborhoods and areas of the Commission have
been damaged and have deteriorated or are threatened because of new
construction, demolitions, alterations, and relocations that have harmed or
will harm the historic and architectural character of these neighborhoods and
areas notwithstanding the feasibility and desirability of preserving and
improving these neighborhoods and areas through appropriate changes.
   (D)   The Council finds that the historic and architectural character of the
Central Business District is of vital importance in maintaining the integrity
and economy of the Commission.
   (E)   (1)   The Council finds that the city has played an important role in
the development of the commonwealth and that this growth is shown today through
buildings representing the activity as a governmental, agricultural, and
commercial center.
      (2)   The Council finds that the city has buildings, historic sites, and
areas that represent the persons who live and work or have lived and worked in
the city during its history. It is the finding of the City Council that the
distinctive and significant character of this city can only be maintained by
protecting and enhancing its historic, architectural, aesthetic, and cultural
heritage and by preventing unnecessary injury or destruction of its landmarks
and historic districts which are civic and community assets.
   (F)   The Council finds that the federal and commonwealth governments have
passed laws to protect and preserve landmarks and historic districts, that some
of these laws provide incentives for historic preservation, and that the
National Historic Preservation Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 470 et seq. was amended
in 1980 to establish a Certified Local Government Program creating a new
federal-state-local partnership to encourage the efforts by cities to protect
and preserve their landmarks and historic districts.
   (G)   The Council finds that this chapter benefits all the residents of the
city and all the owners of property.
   (H)   The City Council declares as a matter of public policy that the
preservation, protection, perpetuation, and use of landmarks and historic
districts is a public necessity because they have a special or distinctive
character or a special historic, architectural, aesthetic, or cultural interest
and value and thus serve as visible reminders of the history and heritage of
this city, commonwealth, and nation. The Council declares as a matter of public
policy that this chapter is required in the interest of the health, prosperity,
safety, welfare, and economic well-being of the people.
   (I)   The purpose of this chapter is to affect the goals as set forth in the
above findings and declarations of public policy and specifically, but not
exclusively, to:
      (1)   Effect and accomplish the preservation, protection, perpetuation,
and use of historic districts, landmarks, and landmark sites having a special
or distinctive character or a special historic, architectural, aesthetic, or
cultural interest and value to the Commission, commonwealth, and nation;
      (2)   Promote the educational, cultural, economic, and general welfare of
the people and safeguard the Commission’s history and heritage as embodied and
reflected in such landmarks, sites, and districts;
      (3)   Stabilize and improve property values in such districts and in the
Commission as a whole;
      (4)   Foster civic pride in the value of notable accomplishments of the
past;
      (5)   Strengthen the economy of the Commission;
      (6)   Protect and enhance the Commission’s attractions to residents,
tourists, and visitors and serve as a support and stimulus to business and
industry; and
      (7)   Enhance the visual and aesthetic character, diversity, and interest
of the Commission.
(Ord. 648B-01, passed 9-10-2001; Ord. 734-06, passed 11-13-2006)
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERATION. Any construction, replacement, or change to the exterior of a
building or structure when it is visible to the public. An ALTERATION shall
include a proposed sign or changes to any existing sign painting and ordinary
maintenance and repairs shall not be considered alterations.
   BUILDING. Any structure designed or constructed for residential, commercial,
industrial, agricultural, or other use.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS. The permit, issued by the Commission, which
gives its approval for work or demolition to be done in a historic district or
on a landmark.
   CERTIFIED LOCAL GOVERNMENT. A government meeting the requirements of the
National Historic Preservation Amendments Act of 1980 (Pub. Law No. 96-515),
and the implementing regulations of the U.S. Department of the Interior and the
Commonwealth Heritage Council.
   COMMISSION. The Scottsville Historic Preservation Commission.
   DEMOLITION. Any act that destroys in whole or in part a landmark or a
building or structure or which results in the moving of any landmark, building,
or structure.
   DESIGN CRITERIA. A standard of appropriate activity as referenced in The
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation that will preserve the
historical and architectural character of a structure, object, or area.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. An area meeting one or more of the criteria contained in
§
154.07(E) and which has been designated by the City of Scottsville.
   LANDMARK. A building, structure, or site meeting one or more of the criteria
contained in §
154.07(E) and which has been designated by the City of Scottsville.
   LANDMARK SITE. The land on which a landmark and related buildings and
structures are located and land that provides the grounds, the premises, or the
setting for a landmark.
   MAJOR STRUCTURAL CHANGE. Structural alterations and structural repairs made
within any 12-month period costing in excess of 50% of the physical value of
the structure, as determined by comparison of the extent/value of the
alterations involved and the replacement value of the structure at the time the
plans for the alteration are approved, using the Building Official’s Conference
of America (BOCA) chart for construction cost.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. An addition to an existing building or structure or the
construction of a new building or structure.
   ORDINARY MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS. Any work, the purpose of which is to
correct deterioration or to prevent deterioration of a designated historic
property. The work shall restore the property to its appearance prior to
deterioration or shall result in the protection of its present appearance The
work shall involve the use of the same building materials or available
materials that are as close as possible to the original work that changes the
external appearance of a property shall be considered an alteration for
purposes of this chapter.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of the ground,
including, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, barns,
smokestacks, advertising signs, billboards, backstops for tennis courts,
bridges, fences, pergolas, gazebos, radio and television antennae, solar
collectors, microwave antennae, including the supporting towers, roads, ruins
or remnants (including foundations, swimming pools, or walkways).
(Ord. 648B-01, passed 9-10-2001; Ord. 734-06, passed 11-13-2006)
§ 154.03 HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment.
      (1)   There is hereby established the City Historic Preservation
Commission. The Commission shall consist of five members appointed by the Mayor
and approved by City Council. The members shall have demonstrated interest in
historic preservation, community development, entrepreneurship, and civic
involvement. At least two members shall have training or experience in a
preservation-related profession: architecture; history; archaeology;
architectural history; planning; or related fields.
      (2)   When one or two professional members are not available, the Mayor
may appoint other persons interested in historic preservation to serve. When
the Commission reviews an issue that is normally evaluated by a professional
member and that field is not represented on the Commission, the Commission
shall seek expert advice before rendering its decision. In making appointments,
the Mayor shall seek to include a member who is active in real estate and two
members who own property within the city.
      (3)   Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, but
they may be reimbursed for expenses incurred in the performance of their duties
in accordance with the rules adopted by the Commission.
      (4)   Each member shall attend at least one educational meeting on
historic preservation per year approved by the Commonwealth Historic
Preservation Officer.
   (B)   Terms of office. The terms of office of the members shall be three
years, except the terms of two members of the original Commission shall expire
after two years and the terms of two members of the original Commission shall
expire after one year. Each member shall serve until the appointment and
qualification of his or her successor. When a vacancy occurs during a term of
office, it shall be filled within 60 days, and the person selected shall be
appointed for the unexpired portion of the term.
   (C)   Officers.
      (1)   The Commission shall elect each year a member to serve as
Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson, and Secretary. The Chairperson shall preside at
the meetings of the Commission and shall be the spokeperson for the Commission.
In his or her absence, the Vice-Chairperson shall perform these duties.
      (2)   The Secretary shall prepare the minutes of the Commission’s
meetings which shall be available for public inspection. Regular monthly
meetings shall be scheduled by the Chairperson and special meetings may be
called at the request of the Chairperson or any two other Commission members.
      (3)   All Commission decisions shall be by majority vote of the entire
Commission.
   (D)   Conflict of interest. No member of the Commission shall vote on any
matter that may affect the property, income, or business interests of that
member.
(Ord. 648B-01, passed 9-10-2001; Ord. 734-06, passed 11-13-2006)
§ 154.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION.
   (A)   Specific powers.
      (1)   In addition to the powers and duties stated elsewhere, the
Commission shall take action necessary and appropriate to accomplish the
purpose of this chapter.
      (2)   These actions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Conducting a survey of historic buildings and areas and
preparing a plan for their preservation;
         (b)   Recommending to the City Council the designation of historic
districts and individual landmarks;
         (c)   Regulating changes to designated property including proposed
alterations that are visible to the public, demolitions, relocations, and new
construction;
         (d)   Adopting written guidelines for making exterior changes to
designated property and for undertaking new construction on designated
property;
         (e)   Working with and advising the federal, commonwealth, and county
governments and other parts of city government;
         (f)   Advising and assisting property owners and other persons and
groups, including neighborhood organizations who are interested in historic
preservation;
         (g)    Initiating plans for the preservation and rehabilitation of
individual historic buildings; and
         (h)   Undertaking educational programs including the preparation of
publications and the placing of historic markers.
   (B)   Rehabilitation of buildings. The Commission may encourage plans for
the preservation and rehabilitation of individual historic buildings. The
Commission shall, on a regular basis, give recognition to owners and tenants
who maintain or rehabilitate their historic buildings with care and thus
contribute to the preservation of the history of the city.
   (C)   Survey of historic buildings. In making its survey of historic
buildings and areas, the Commission shall conduct this work in accordance with
the guidelines of the Commonwealth Heritage Council. The Commission shall
provide that its survey and preservation plan shall be maintained and
continued. The Commission shall use the preservation plan to assist the city in
its overall planning efforts.
   (D)   Meetings of the Commission. The Commission shall adopt and make public
rules for the transaction of its business and shall hold monthly public
meetings and special public meetings when necessary. All meetings shall have a
previously available agenda and shall comply with the Commonwealth Open Meeting
Act, KRS 61.805. A simple majority of the membership shall be required for
decisions involving historic buildings and areas.
   (E)   Annual report. The Commission shall prepare and keep on file,
available for public inspection, a written annual report of its activities,
cases, decisions, qualifications of members, and other work.
   (F)   Right to receive specific funds. The Commission, in addition to any
appropriations made by city, shall have the right to receive, hold, and spend
funds which it may legally receive from any and every source both in and out of
the commonwealth for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this
chapter.
   (G)   Other duties under the Certified Local Government Program. In the
development of the Certified Local Government Program, the city may ask the
Commission to perform other responsibilities that may be delegated to the city
under the National Historic Preservation Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 470 et seq.
   (H)   Assistance for the Commission. The Commission shall receive assistance
in the performance of its responsibilities from a city staff member or designee
whose assigned duties shall include this work with the Commission who shall
have expertise in historic preservation or a closely related field. Other city
staff members may be asked to assist the Commission by providing technical
advice or helping in the administration of this chapter.
(Ord. 648B-01, passed 9-10-2001; Ord. 734-06, passed 11-13-2006)
§ 154.05 NOMINATIONS TO THE NATIONAL REGISTER OF HISTORIC PLACES.
   (A)   Initiation of nominations. The Commission may submit nominations for
all applicable buildings to be designated on the National Register of Historic
Places.
   (B)   Review of nominations.
      (1)   If either or both the Mayor and the Commission agree that a
property should be nominated, the nomination will be scheduled for review by
the Commonwealth Historic Preservation Review Board. The opinion or opinions of
the Commission and the Mayor will be presented to them for their consideration.
The Review Board, after considering all opinions, shall make its recommendation
to the Commonwealth Historic Preservation Officer who decides whether to
forward the nomination to the U.S. Secretary of the Interior who shall make the
decision on listing the property on the National Register.
      (2)   The Mayor, the Commission, or the property owner may appeal the
final decision by the Commonwealth Historic Preservation Officer.
(Ord. 648B-01, passed 9-10-2001; Ord. 734-06, passed 11-13-2006)
§ 154.06 DESIGNATION OF LANDMARKS, LANDMARK SITES, AND HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Recommendations and designations.
      (1)   The Commission shall recommend to the City Council the designation
of individual landmarks and landmark sites and historic districts, and the City
Council may make these designations by the enactment of ordinances.
      (2)   Consideration of the designation of a landmark and landmark site or
a historic district may be originated by the Commission or by the filing of an
application for designation by a property owner, any resident of the city, or
any organization in the city.
      (3)   A person or an organization proposing a designation shall give the
Commission the names and addresses of the owners of the affected property and
the owners of all adjoining property as listed on the tax rolls of the city.
   (B)   Public hearing and notice.
      (1)   The Commission shall assemble information about a property or
district being considered for the designation and shall schedule a public
hearing on the proposed designation. Advertised notice of the hearing shall be
given, including conspicuous posting on the property or in the proposed
district.
      (2)   This notice shall be published not earlier than 21 days and not
later seven days before the public hearing. At least 15 days prior to the
public hearing, written notice shall be given by registered mail to owners of
property under consideration and the owners of all adjoining property.
      (3)   Written notice shall be considered sufficient when it is mailed to
the person listed on the tax rolls of the city.
   (C)   Guidelines.
      (1)   Before its first public hearing on a designation, the Commission
shall adopt general guidelines that will apply to the city’s landmarks and
historic districts and will assist owners in the preservation and
rehabilitation of their property.
      (2)   The guidelines shall be submitted to the Planning and Zoning
Commission and the City Council for its approval. The general guidelines shall
include The Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation and
Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic Buildings and other guidelines that will
apply to all designated property in the city.
      (3)   Before each public hearing on a designation, the Commission may
adopt additional guidelines that will supplement the general guidelines and
will apply to the property under consideration if it is designated. The
guidelines shall not limit new construction to any one architectural style but
shall seek to preserve the character and integrity of the landmark or the
historic district.
      (4)   The guidelines shall suggest changes that would be appropriate for
landmarks or for property in historic districts. After a designation, the
Commission may expand or amend the guidelines it has adopted provided it holds
a public hearing on the changes and submits the proposed changes to the
Planning and Zoning Commission and the City Council for their approval.
   (D)   Criteria for designation. A landmark or historic district shall
qualify for designation when it meets one or more of the following criteria
which shall be discussed in a Commission report making its recommendations to
the City Council:
      (1)   Its value as a reminder of the cultural or archaeological heritage
of the city, commonwealth, or nation;
      (2)   Its location as a site of a significant local, commonwealth, or
national event;
      (3)   Its identification with a person or persons who significantly
contributed to the development of the city, commonwealth, or nation;
      (4)   Its identification as the work of a master builder, designer, or
architect whose individual work has influenced the development of the city,
commonwealth, or nation;
      (5)   Its value as a building that is recognized for the quality of its
architecture and that retains sufficient elements showing its architectural
significance;
      (6)   Its distinguishing characteristics of an architectural style
valuable for the study of a period, method of construction, or use of
indigenous materials;
      (7)   Its character as a geographically definable area possessing a
significant concentration or continuity of sites, buildings, objects, or
structures united by past events or aesthetically by plan or physical
development; or
      (8)   Its character as an established and geographically definable
neighborhood, united by culture, architectural style, or physical plan and
development.
   (E)   Report to the City Commission. After evaluating the testimony at its
public hearing, survey information, and other material it has assembled, the
Commission shall make its recommendation to the City Council with a written
report on the property or area under consideration. The report shall contain
information about the buildings, sites, and structures which have been
identified for inclusion in the proposed designation.
   (F)   Report by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (1)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall then report on the
relationship between the proposed designation and existing and future plans for
the development of the city. If the Planning and Zoning Commission approves of
the proposed designation, it shall amend the Comprehensive Plan to include the
proposed designation and shall recommend a change in the zoning map to show the
proposed historic designation.
      (2)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall forward its comments, the
Comprehensive Plan amendment, or the zoning map change to the City Council. If
the Planning and Zoning Commission does not approve of the proposed
designation, it shall forward its comments to the City Council.
   (G)   Action by the City Council.
      (1)   The City Council shall approve, modify, or disapprove the proposed
designation and the map amendment within 60 days after receiving the
recommendation of the Commission and the material from the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
      (2)   If the City Council decides to make a designation and no
Comprehensive Plan amendment has been adopted and no zoning map change has been
recommended, the City Council shall request the Planning and Zoning Commission
to reconsider its earlier decisions and shall provide that the designation
shall take effect after these preliminary steps have been approved.
   (H)   Notification of designation.
      (1)   The Commission shall notify each owner of the decision relating to
his or her property and shall arrange that the designation of a property as a
landmark or as a part of a historic district be recorded in the land records of
the county. The Commission shall ask that fees be waived for the Commission
documents recording the designations.
      (2)   The Commission shall also give notice of the decision to the
government offices in the city and county which shall retain them for future
reference.
   (I)   Amendment or rescission of a designation. The amendment or rescission
of any designation shall be accomplished through the same steps as were
followed in the original designation.
(Ord. 648B-01, passed 9-10-2001; Ord. 734-06, passed 11-13-2006)
§ 154.07 APPROVAL OF CHANGES TO LANDMARKS, LANDMARK SITES, AND HISTORIC
DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Requirement for certificate of appropriateness. A certificate of
appropriateness from the Commission shall be required before a person may
undertake the following actions affecting a landmark, a landmark site, or a
property in a historic district:
      (1)   Alteration of the exterior part of a structure that is visible to
the public;
      (2)   New construction;
      (3)   Demolition; or
      (4)   Relocation.
   (B)   Application to the Commission.
      (1)   When a person wishes to undertake an exterior alteration visible to
the public affecting a landmark, a landmark site, or a property in a historic
district that does not require a building permit, that person shall apply
directly to the Commission for a certificate of appropriateness.
      (2)   The Building Inspector shall forward to the Commission every
application for a permit that
would authorize an exterior alteration visible to the public, new construction,
demolition, or relocation affecting a landmark, a landmark site, or a property
in a historic district. The Building Inspector shall give the applicant a form
from the Commission requesting additional information from the applicant.
      (3)   The applicant shall provide, where applicable, drawings of the
proposed work, photographs of the existing building, structure, or site and
adjacent properties, and information about the building materials to be used.
   (C)   Stop-work order; injunction.
      (1)   In the event work is being performed without the required
certificate of appropriateness, the Commission shall ask that a stop-work order
be issued. In the event work requiring a certificate of appropriateness, but
not a building permit is being performed without the required certificate of
appropriateness, the Commission shall ask that a stop-work order be issued.
      (2)   In the event work is being performed which is not in accordance
with such certificate, the Police Chief or the City Clerk shall issue a stop-
work order and any law enforcement officer may cite violators in District
Court. All work shall cease on the designated property.
      (3)   No additional work shall be undertaken as long as such stop-work
order shall continue in effect. The city may apply in Circuit Court for an
injunction to enforce its stop-work order.
   (D)   Action by the Commission; notice.
      (1)   The Commission shall hold a public hearing on each certificate of
appropriateness within 45 days after a completed application is received by the
Commission. The Commission shall make a decision on the application within 45
days after the receipt of a completed application; provided, that the
Commission may extend the time for decision an additional 60 days when the
application is for demolition or new construction.
      (2)   The Commission shall approve or disapprove each application, and it
shall give its reasons for its decision using the criteria contained in this
section and in its guidelines. The Commission may suggest modifications to an
application and may then approve a certificate of appropriateness providing for
revisions in the plans submitted.
      (3)   If the Commission fails to decide on an application within the
specified time period, the application shall be deemed approved. Applicants
shall be given notice of the public hearings and meetings relating to their
application and shall be informed of the Commission’s decision.
      (4)   When an application has been approved, the applicant shall be given
a certificate of appropriateness. Advertised notice of the hearing shall be
given, including conspicuous posting on the property for five consecutive days
immediately prior to the hearing.
   (E)   Criterial in deciding on applications.
      (1)   In making a decision on an application, the Commission shall use
the general guidelines and the guidelines it has adopted for that landmark or
historic district.
      (2)   The Commission shall consider:
         (a)   The effect of the proposed work on the landmark or the property
upon which such work in the historic district is to be done; and
         (b)   The relationship between such work and other adjacent or nearby
buildings and property.
      (3)   In evaluating the effect and the relationship, the Commission shall
consider historical and architectural significance, architectural style,
design, arrangement, texture, materials, and color. The certificate of
appropriateness from the Commission shall not relieve the property owner from
complying with the requirements of other commonwealth and local laws and
regulations.
   (F)   Consulting with applicants. In making a decision on an application,
the Commission shall be aware of the importance of finding a way to meet the
current needs of the applicant. The Commission shall also recognize the
importance of approving plans that will be reasonable for the applicant to
carry out. Before an applicant prepares his or her plans, he or she may bring a
tentative proposal to the Commission for its comments.
   (G)   Routine alterations, ordinary maintenance, and repairs.
      (1)   The Commission shall prepare a list of routine alterations that
shall receive immediate approval without a public hearing when an applicant
complies with the specifications written guidelines of the Commission. At each
meeting, the Commission shall be informed of the certificates of
appropriateness that have been issued under this provision. The Commission may
regulate the color of paint used on designated property.
      (2)   Ordinary maintenance and repairs may be undertaken without a
certificate of appropriateness provided this work on a landmark, a landmark
site, or a property in a historic district does not change its exterior
appearance that is visible to the public.
      (3)   Every person in charge of a landmark or a property in a historic
district shall keep it in good repair:
         (a)   All of the exterior portions of such buildings or structures;
and
         (b)   All interior portions thereof which, if not so maintained, may
cause such buildings or structures to deteriorate, to become damaged, or
otherwise to fall into a state of disrepair. The purpose of this provision is
to prevent a person from forcing the demolition of his or her building by
neglecting it and by permitting damage to the building because of weather or
vandalism.
      (4)   No provision in this chapter shall be interpreted to require an
owner or tenant to undertake an alteration or to restore his or her building to
its original appearance.
   (H)   Meetings with owners about condition of buildings.
      (1)   (a)   The Commission shall request a meeting with a property owner
when his or her landmark or his or her building in a historic district is in
poor repair, and the Commission shall discuss with the owner ways to improve
the condition of his or her property.
         (b)   After this step, the Commission may request the Building
Inspector to take action to require correction of defects in any building or
structure designated under this chapter so that such building or structure
shall be preserved in accordance with the purposes of this chapter.
         (c)   The action taken by city may include boarding up the doors,
windows, and other parts of the building and additional steps to stabilize
walls, roofs, and other parts of the building.
      (2)   The Commission shall request a meeting with the owner of each
vacant lot in a historic district, and the Commission shall discuss with each
owner ways to maintain the vacant lot so that it will contribute to the
preservation of the historic district. The Commission may prepare plans to
improve the appearance of a vacant lot in the historic district.
      (3)   The provisions of this section shall be in addition to all other
provisions of the Commonwealth Building Code, being 815 KAR 7:120 requiring
buildings and structures to be kept in good repair.
   (I)   Emergency situations.
      (1)   When a property is damaged by fire, storm, or other unexpected
events, the owner or tenant may receive approval from the Chairperson or Vice-
Chairperson of the Commission for the work to be done in response to this
emergency. At its next meeting, the Commission shall be informed of the
certificates of appropriateness that were issued. In situations requiring
temporary action, an owner may do work in order to temporarily protect the
property from further damage provided the owner reports this work to the
Commission within two business days.
      (2)   An owner shall immediately notify the Building Inspector of
emergency conditions dangerous to life, health, or property affecting a
landmark, a landmark site, or a property in a historic district, and the owner
shall promptly provide evidence of the dangerous conditions that has been
prepared by a person with professional qualifications in evaluating buildings
and structures.
      (3)   In any case where the Building Inspector determines that there are
emergency conditions dangerous to life health, or property affecting a
landmark, a landmark site, or a property in a historic district, he or she may
order remedying of these conditions without the approval of the Commission. The
Code Enforcement Officer shall promptly notify the Chairperson of the
Commission of the action being taken.
   (J)   Demolition of a landmark or a building or structure in a historic
district.
      (1)   When an applicant wishes to demolish a landmark, building, or
structure on a landmark site, or a building or structure in a historic
district, the Commission shall negotiate with the applicant to see if an
alternative to demolition can be found. The Commission may ask interested
individuals and organizations for assistance in seeking an alternative to
demolition and in obtaining estimates on rehabilitation costs for the
threatened building.
      (2)   After its public hearing, the Commission may decide that a building
or structure in a historic district or on a landmark site may be demolished
because it does not contribute to the historic district or to the landmark. On
all other demolition applications, the Commission shall study the question of
economic hardship for the applicant and shall determine whether the landmark or
the property in the historic district can be put to reasonable beneficial use
without the approval of the demolition application.
      (3)   In the case of an income-producing building, the Commission shall
also determine whether the applicant can obtain a reasonable return from his or
her existing building. The Commission may ask applicants for additional
information to be used in making these determinations. These determinations
shall be in addition to the points contained in §
154.06(E).
      (4)   If economic hardship or the lack of a reasonable return is not
proved, the Commission shall deny the demolition application unless the
Commission finds grounds to grant the demolition application under the points
contained in §
154.06(E).
   (M)   Moving a landmark, building, or structure in a historic district.
      (1)   When the applicant wishes to move a landmark, building, or
structure on a landmark site, or a building or structure in a historic
district, or wishes to move a building or structure to a landmark site or to a
property in a historic district, the Commission shall consider:
         (a)   The contribution the building or structure makes to its present
setting;
         (b)   Whether there are definite plans for the site to be vacated;
         (c)   Whether the building or structure can be moved without
significant damage to its physical integrity; and
         (d)   The compatibility of the building or structure to its proposed
site and adjacent properties.
      (2)   These considerations shall be in addition to the points contained
in §
154.06(E).
   (N)   Length of validity of certificate of appropriateness.
      (1)   A certificate of appropriateness shall remain valid for one year
after it is issued. Work is required to start before the end of the one-year
period. If actual work has not commenced within one year, the certificate is
invalid.
      (2)   ACTUAL WORK is hereby defined to include the placing of
construction materials in permanent position and fastened in a permanent
manner. Where excavation or demolition is required preparatory to rebuilding,
such excavation or demolition shall be deemed to be actual work provided that
it shall be carried out diligently.
   (O)   Appeal of the Commission’s decision. The applicant shall have an
appeal to the Circuit Court from a decision of the Commission on an application
for a certificate of appropriateness. Such appeal must be filed in writing with
the City Clerk within 14 days after the decision of the Commission. The City
Council shall hold a public hearing and shall vote on said appeal within 60
days of its receipt. The City Council shall transmit its decision in writing to
the applicant, the Commission, and the Code Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 648B-01, passed 9-10-2001; Ord. 734-06, passed 11-13-2006)
§ 154.08 EMERGENCY CONSIDERATION.
   (A)   In the case of unusual circumstances whereby the normal process for
obtaining a certificate of appropriateness as set forth in this chapter creates
undue hardship for the health, safety, and welfare of an applicant, the
Commission may, at its discretion, waive the normal process and give immediate
approval for a certificate of appropriateness.
   (B)   The Commission shall site its reasons in writing for such immediate
approval.
(Ord. 648B-01, passed 9-10-2001; Ord. 734-06, passed 11-13-2006)
§ 154.09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect immediately upon passage by the city.
(Ord. 648B-01, passed 9-10-2001; Ord. 734-06, passed 11-13-2006)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
not less than $50, nor more than $500 for each offense. Each day’s violation
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 648B-01, passed 9-10-2001; Ord. 734-06, passed 11-13-2006)
CHAPTER 155: CELLULAR ANTENNA TOWERS AND WIRELESS TRANSMISSION STATIONS
Section
   
155.01   Specific use standards
   
155.02   Applicability; exclusions
   
155.03   Minimum location standards
   
155.04   Color of towers
   
155.05   Definitions
   
155.06   Application
   
155.07   Confidentiality
   
155.08   Approval; denial
   
155.09   Residential Districts (SF and MF)
   
155.10   Manufactured Home Residential District (MH-1)
   
155.11   Manufactured Home Park District (MH-2)
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 SPECIFIC USE STANDARDS.
   (A)   The purpose and intent of this chapter are to avoid potential damage
to adjacent properties from transmission tower collapse and falling ice through
engineering and siting standards that maximizes use of any new cellular antenna
tower, and encourages collocation and clustering of cellular antenna towers to
reduce the number of towers and tower sites needed.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the construction,
erection, alteration, use, and location of transmission towers and accessory
facilities in all zoning districts. Cellular antenna towers, antennas, and
related equipment in legal existence on the effective date of §
153.01 that are not in conformity with this chapter may remain in place. Unless
otherwise permitted by §
153.01, no new cellular antenna tower, antennas, or related equipment may be
erected or constructed unless all provisions of this chapter and the
requirements of the Commonwealth Public Service Commission are met.
   (C)   An antenna and supporting structure for the following uses is
permitted in any district if accessory to a permitted use and if it complies
with applicable regulations of the district in which situated and is otherwise
permitted by law:
      (1)   Amateur radios;
      (2)   Citizen band radios;
      (3)   A telecommunications device that only receives radio frequency
signals;
      (4)   Portable, hand held, and vehicular transmissions; and
      (5)   Industrial, scientific, and medical equipment operating at
frequencies designated for that purpose by the FCC; and
      (6)   Transmission towers used for remote control of municipal or public
facilities.
(Ord. 697-02, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 155.02 APPLICABILITY; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)    Applicability. The following shall be subject to this chapter:
      (1)   Cellular antenna towers;
      (2)   Broadcast towers;
      (3)   Telecommunications support towers; and
      (4)   Point-to-point microwave towers;
      (5)   Ground-mounted switchboxes, relay stations, or facilities used for
switching, transmitting, re-transmitting, or controlling telecommunications
signals.
   (B)   Exclusions. The following are not regulated by the provisions from
this chapter:
      (1)   Receive-only antennas and amateur radio facilities that are owned
and operated by a federally-licensed amateur radio station operator are not
included in this category;
      (2)   Radio and television studios are classified as business activities;
      (3)   Radio and television broadcast facilities that are public safety
facilities are classified as basic utilities;
      (4)   Ground and post-mounted telephone switch boxes not exceeding six
feet in height are classified as basic utilities.
(Ord. 697-02, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 155.03 MINIMUM LOCATION STANDARDS.
   The following minimum standards shall be met in the approval of an
application under this chapter.
   (A)   All self-supporting antenna towers will be set back from the property
line on which it is located 25% of the overall height of the transmission
tower.
   (B)   All guyed antenna towers will be set back from the property line on
which it is located 50% of the overall height of the transmission towner.
   (C)   Transmission tower accessory facilities shall comply with the setback
standard in the adjacent zoning district if more restrictive than the proposed
zoning district.
   (D)   At least two off-street parking spaces and one additional space for
each on-site personnel will be provided.
   (E)   Existing on-site vegetation shall be preserved to the maximum extent
practicable.
   (F)   Transmission towers shall not be artificially lighted unless required
by the Federal Aviation Administration or appropriate commonwealth authority.
   (G)   Transmission tower accessory facilities in an Agriculture District and
other such districts where transmission towers are a conditional use, permitted
accessory buildings, and structures may not include offices, long-term vehicle
storage, other outdoor storage or broadcast studios, except for emergency
purposes, or other uses that are not needed to send or receive transmissions,
and in no event may exceed 25% of the floor area used for wireless transmission
equipment.
   (H)   The proposed use shall be consistent with applicable federal and
commonwealth regulations and shall have secured and submitted copies of
compliance with these regulations.
(Ord. 697-02, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 155.04 COLOR OF TOWERS.
   Unless otherwise required by commonwealth or federal regulations, all
transmission towers shall be light gray in color.
(Ord. 697-02, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 155.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTENNAS OR RELATED EQUIPMENT. Transmitting, receiving, or other equipment
used to support cellular telecommunications service or personal communications
service. This definition does not include towers.
   CELLULAR ANTENNA TOWER. A tower constructed for, or an existing facility
that has been adapted for, the location of transmission, or related equipment
to be used in the provision of cellular telecommunications services or personal
communications services.
   CELLULAR TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. A retail telecommunications service
that uses radio signals transmitted through cell sites and mobile switching
stations.
   CO-LOCATION. Locating two or more transmission antennas or related equipment
on the same cellular antenna tower.
   PERSONAL COMMUNICATION SERVICE. The same meaning as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
332(c).
   UNIFORM APPLICATION. An application to construct a cellular antenna tower
submitted to a Planning and Zoning Commission in conformity with KRS 100.985(3)
and KRS 100.985(5).
   UTILITY. The same meaning as defined in KRS 278.010(3).
(Ord. 697-02, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 155.06 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Generally. Every utility or company that is engaged in the business of
providing the required infrastructure to a utility that proposes to construct
an antenna tower for cellular telecommunications services or personal
communications services shall submit an application for approval which shall
include the following:
      (1)   A City-County Planning and Zoning Commission conditional use permit
application, if required;
      (2)   The uniform application, which shall include:
         (a)   The full name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   The applicant’s articles of incorporation, if applicable;
         (c)   A geotechnical investigation report, signed and sealed by a
professional engineer registered in the commonwealth that includes boring logs
and foundation design recommendations;
         (d)   A written report prepared by a professional engineer or land
surveyor of findings as to the proximity of the proposed site to flood hazard
areas;
         (e)   Clear directions from the county seat to the proposed site,
including highway numbers and street names, if applicable, with the telephone
number of the person who prepared the directions;
         (f)   The lease or sale agreement for the property on which the owner
is proposed to be located, except that, if the agreement has been filed in
abbreviated form with the County Clerk, an applicant may file a copy of the
agreement as recorded by the County Clerk and, if applicable, the portion of
the agreement demonstrating compliance with KRS 100.987;
         (g)   The identity and qualifications of each person directly
responsible for the design and construction of the proposed tower;
         (h)   A site development plan or survey, signed and sealed by a
professional engineer registered in the commonwealth that shows the proposed
location of the tower and all easements and existing structures within 500 feet
of the proposed site on the property on which the tower will be located, and
all easements and existing structures within 200 feet of the access drive,
including the intersection with the public street system;
         (i)   A vertical profile sketch of the tower, signed and sealed by a
professional engineer registered in the commonwealth, indicating the height of
the tower and the placement of all antennas;
         (j)   The tower and foundation design plans and a description of the
standard according to which the tower was designed, signed and sealed by a
professional engineer registered the commonwealth;
         (k)   A map, drawn to a scale no less than one inch equals 200 feet,
that identifies every structure and every owner of real estate within 500 feet
of the proposed tower;
         (l)   A statement that every person who, according to the records of
the Property Valuation Administrator, owns property within 500 feet of the
proposed tower or property contiguous to the site upon which the tower is
proposed to be constructed has been:
            1.   Notified by certified mail, return receipt requested of the
proposed construction which shall include a map of the location of the proposed
construction;
            2.   Given the telephone number and address of the Planning and
Zoning Commission; and
            3.   Informed of his or her right to participate in the Planning
and Zoning Commission’s proceedings on the application.
         (m)   A list of the property owners who received the notice, together
with copies of the
certified letters sent to the listed property owners;
         (n)   A statement that the chief executive officer of the affected
local governments and their legislative bodies have been notified in writing of
the proposed construction;
         (o)   A copy of the notice sent to chief executive officer of the
affected local governments and their legislative bodies;
         (p)   A statement that:
            1.   A written notice, of durable material at least two feet by
four feet in size, stating that “(name of applicant) proposes to construct a
telecommunications tower on this site” and including the addresses and
telephone numbers of the applicant and the Planning and Zoning Commission, has
been posted and shall remain in a visible location on the proposed site until
final disposition of the application; and
            2.   A written notice, at least two feet by four feet in size,
stating that “(name of applicant) proposes to construct a telecommunications
tower near this site” and including the addresses and telephone numbers of the
applicant and the Planning and Zoning Commission, has been posted on the public
road nearest the site.
         (q)   A statement that notice of the location of the proposed
construction has been published in a newspaper of general circulation in the
county in which the construction is proposed;
         (r)   A brief description of the character of the general area in
which the tower is proposed to be constructed which includes the existing land
use for the specific property involved;
         (s)   A statement that the applicant has considered the likely effects
of the installation on nearby land uses and values and has concluded that there
is no more suitable location reasonably available from which adequate service
to the area can be provided and that there is no reasonably available
opportunity to locate its antennas and related facilities on an existing
structure, including documentation of attempts to locate its antennas and
related facilities on an existing structure, if any, with supporting radio
frequency analysis, where applicable, and a statement indicating that the
applicant attempted to locate its antennas and related facilities on a tower
designed to host multiple wireless service providers’ facilities or on an
existing structure, such as a telecommunications tower or other suitable
structure capable of supporting the applicant’s antennas and related
facilities; and
         (t)   A map of the area in which the tower is proposed to be located,
that is drawn to scale, and that clearly depicts the necessary search area
within which an antenna tower should, pursuant to radio frequency requirements,
be located.
      (3)   The uniform application shall also include a grid map that shows
the location of all existing cellular antenna towers and that indicates the
general position of proposed construction sites for new cellular antenna towers
within an area that includes:
         (a)   All of the county; and
         (b)   A one-half mile area outside of the county if that area contains
either existing or proposed construction sites for cellular antenna towers.
      (4)   The uniform application shall also include a copy of the contracts
with an owner(s) of property upon which the cellular antenna tower is to be
constructed which shall include a provision that specifies, in the case of
abandonment, a method that the owner (operator) will follow in dismantling and
removing the cellular antenna tower including a timetable for removal.
   (B)   Application for approval. An application for approval of a
transmission tower (other than a cellular antenna tower) shall include the
following:
      (1)   A City-County Planning and Zoning Commission conditional use
application, if required;
      (2)   A site plan or plans drawn to scale and identifying the site
boundary; towers; guy wire anchors; existing and proposed structures; vehicular
parking and access; and existing vegetation to be retained, removed or
replaced;
      (3)   Uses, structures, and land use designations on the site and
abutting parcels; and
      (4)   A copy of the contracts, with an owner(s) of property that which
the transmission tower is to be constructed which shall include a provision
that specifies, in the case of abandonment, a method that the owner (operator)
will follow in dismantling and removing the transmission tower including a
timetable for removal if necessary.
(Ord. 697-02, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 155.07 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   All information contained in the application and any updates, except for any
map or other information that specifically identifies the proposed location of
the cellular antenna tower then being reviewed, shall be deemed confidential
and proprietary within the meaning of KRS 61.878. The Planning and Zoning
Commission shall deny any public request for the inspection of this
information, whether submitted with the Commonwealth’s Open Records Act, being
KRS 61.870 through 61.884 or otherwise, except when ordered to release the
information by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 697-02, passed 8-12-2002) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.08 APPROVAL; DENIAL.
   (A)   After an applicant’s submission of an application to construct a
cellular antenna tower, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall:
      (1)   Review the application in light of its agreement with the
Comprehensive Plan and locally adopted zoning regulations;
      (2)   Make its final decision to approve or disapprove the application;
and
      (3)   Advise the applicant in writing of its final decision within 60
days commencing from the date that the application is submitted to the Planning
and Zoning Commission or within a date certain specified in a written agreement
between the Planning and Zoning Commission and the applicant. If the Planning
and Zoning Commission fails to issue a final decision within 60 days, and if
there is no written agreement between the Planning and Zoning Commission and
the applicant to a specific date for the Planning and Zoning Commission to
issue a decision, the application shall be deemed approved.
   (B)   If the Planning and Zoning Commission disapproves of the proposed
construction, it shall state the reasons for disapproval in its written
decision and may make suggestions which, in its opinion, better accomplish the
objectives of the Comprehensive Plan and the locally adopted zoning
regulations. No permit for construction of a cellular or personal
communications services antenna tower shall be issued until the Planning and
Zoning Commission approves the application or the 60-day time period has
expired, whichever occurs first.
   (C)   (1)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may require the applicant to
make a reasonable attempt to co-locate additional transmitting or related
equipment. It is the intent of these regulations to encourage the collocation
and clustering of multiple transmission towers and their antennas and accessory
facilities and to discourage the use of individual transmission towers and
accessory facility sites. Therefore, more than one transmission tower will be
permitted under these regulations on a single tract of land notwithstanding any
other provision of §
153.01, provided, they meet all of the required location standards.
      (2)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may provide the location of
existing cellular antenna towers on which the Planning and Zoning Commission
deems the applicant can successfully co-locate its transmitting and related
equipment.
      (3)   If the Planning and Zoning Commission requires the applicant to
attempt co-location, the applicant shall provide the Planning and Zoning
Commission with a statement indicating that the applicant has:
         (a)   Successfully attempted to co-locate on towers designed to host
multiple wireless service providers facilities or existing structures such as a
telecommunications tower or another suitable structure capable of supporting
the applicant’s facilities, and that identifies the location of the tower or
suitable structure on which the applicant will co-locate its transmission and
related facilities; or
         (b)   Unsuccessfully attempted to co-locate on towers designed to host
multiple wireless service provider’s facilities or existing structures such as
a telecommunications tower or another suitable structure capable of supporting
the applicant’s facilities and that:
            1.   Identifies the location of the towers or other structures on
which the applicant attempted to co-locate; and
            2.   Lists the reasons why the co-location was unsuccessful in each
instance.
      (4)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may deny an application to
construct a cellular antenna tower based on an applicant’s unwillingness to
attempt to co-locate additional transmitting or related equipment on any new or
existing towers or other structures.
      (5)   In the event of co-location, a utility shall be considered the
primary user of the tower if the utility is the owner of the antenna tower and
if no other agreement exists that prescribes an alternate arrangement between
the parties for use of the tower. Any other entity that co-locates transmission
or related facilities on a cellular antenna tower shall do so in a manner that
does not impose additional costs or operating restrictions on the primary user.
      (6)   Upon the approval of an application for the construction of a
cellular antenna tower by the Planning and Zoning Commission, the applicant
shall notify the Public Service Commission within ten working days of the
approval. The notice to the Public Service Commission shall include a map
showing the location of the construction site. If an applicant fails to file
notice of an approved uniform application with the Public Service Commission,
the applicant shall be prohibited from beginning construction on the cellular
antenna tower until such notice has been made.
      (7)   If the Planning and Zoning Commission disapproves of the proposed
construction, it shall state the reasons for disapproval in its written
decision and may make suggestions which, in its opinion, better accomplish the
objectives of the Comprehensive Plan and the locally adopted zoning
regulations. No permit for construction of a cellular or personal
communications services antenna tower shall be issued until the Planning and
Zoning Commission approves the application or the 60-day time period has
expired whichever occurs first.
      (8)   A party aggrieved by a final action of the Planning and Zoning
Commission under the provisions of KRS 100.985 to 100.987 may bring an action
for review in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 697-02, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 155.09 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS (SF AND MF).
   The following are prohibited uses in the residential zones:
   (A)   Cellular antenna towers;
   (B)   Broadcast towers;
   (C)   Telecommunications support towers;
   (D)   Point-to-point microwave towers; and
   (E)   Ground-mounted switchboxes, relay stations, or facilities used for
switching, transmitting, re- transmitting, or controlling telecommunications
signals.
(Ord. 697-02, passed 8-12-2002) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.10 MANUFACTURED HOME RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (MH-1).
   The following uses and structures shall be prohibited in this zone:
   (A)   Cellular antenna towers;
   (B)   Broadcast towers;
   (C)   Telecommunications support towers;
   (D)   Point-to-point microwave towers; and
   (E)   Ground-mounted switchboxes, relay stations, or facilities used for
switching, transmitting re- transmitting, or controlling telecommunications
signals.
(Ord. 697-02, passed 8-12-2002) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.11 MANUFACTURED HOME PARK DISTRICT (MH-2).
   The following uses and structures shall be prohibited in this zone:
   (A)   Cellular antenna towers;
   (B)   Broadcast towers;
   (C)   Telecommunications support towers;
   (D)   Point-to-point microwave towers; and
   (E)   Ground mounted switchboxes, relay stations, or facilities used for
switching, transmitting, re- transmitting, or controlling telecommunications
signals.
(Ord. 697-02, passed 8-12-2002) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating this chapter shall be guilty of official misconduct in
the second degree as provided under KRS 522.030.
(Ord. 697-02, passed 8-12-2002)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   CITY BOUNDARIES
      
II.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
III.   FRANCHISES
      
IV.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
V.   WATER RIGHTS
      
VI.   STREET AND SIDEWALK REPAIR, LIGHTING, AND THE LIKE
      
VII.   STREET CLOSINGS
      
VIII.   STREET NAMINGS; RENAMINGS
      
IX.   ANNEXATIONS
      
X.   REZONINGS
TABLE I: CITY BOUNDARIES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
49       7-3-1929    Extending W. Market Street
88       7-6-1933    Extending the city limits on petition by L.O. Cliburn
 
TABLE II: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
178      - -         Contract for a short pipeline connection
5        11-14-1923  Contract between H.E. Dixon and the Mayor
243      9-3-1951    Contract between the Mayor with the Commonwealth Agency of
                     the Old-Age Survivors Insurance System
255      8-25-1952   Authorizing a contract with Donlan Construction Company
467      10-20-1969  Executing a contract with Hall Contracting, Corp.
-        7-26-1972   Agreement between the city and G. Reynolds Watkins
                     Consulting Engineers, Inc.
628-93   5-17-1993   Interlocal agreement approving a Joint and Cooperative
                     Program
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
256       - -         Franchise for telephone lines
257       - -         Franchise for telephone lines
51        2-11-1930   Franchise for gas mains
52        3-6-1930    Franchise for gas mains
154       7-2-1942    Franchise for an electric transmission and distribution
                      system
155       7-2-1942    Franchise for an electric franchise
171       12-7-1944   Franchise for a telephone exchange system
172       12-18-1944  Granting a franchise to Southern Continental Telephone
                      Company
173       4-5-1945    Franchise for a telephone exchange system
174       5-3-1945    Franchise for a telephone exchange system
449       5-3-1965    Franchise for telephone lines
453       4-4-1966    Franchise for telephone lines
564       9-10-1979   Franchise for community antenna television (CATV) service
641-95(A) 1-19-1995   Granting a franchise to Tele-Media Company
693-02    4-9-2002    Granting a franchise to North Central Communications
 
TABLE IV: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
101      8-15-1935   Condemnation proceedings for certain real estate on N.
                     Court Street
103      9-5-1935    Repealing Ord. 101
107      11-20-1935  Condemnation proceedings for certain real estate belonging
                     to Robert H. Strausberg
108      11-20-1935  Condemnation proceedings for certain real estate belonging
                     to Hershel Witt
109      11-20-1935  Condemnation proceedings for certain real estate belonging
                     to A.F. Pearson
299      8-7-1958    Deed of conveyance by the city to Houchens Warehouse
                     Corporation
300      12-4-1958   Deed acceptance from Ralph Eldred and Gene Garrett
440      3-2-1964    Deed and financing of construction of the City-County
                     Building
545      4-11-1977   Executing a deed for the Public School Project
 
TABLE V: WATER RIGHTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
23       4-2-1925    Extending the city water system
517      11-11-1974  Constructing and installing a water main to the Barren
                     River Reservoir site
527      5-12-1975   Creating easements for the purpose of constructing a water
                     main to the Barren River Reservoir
549      11-14-1977  Granting to the County Water District the right to tap and
                     connect a water main to the city’s water main
 
TABLE VI: STREET AND SIDEWALK REPAIR, LIGHTING, AND THE LIKE
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
30       5-16-1925   Designating certain streets be improved by the laying of
                     sidewalks, curbs, and valleys
121      6-2-1938    Providing street lights for the city
122      7-7-1938    Amending Ord. 121 for the providing of street lights
141      6-25-1940   Ordering certain street, curb, and gutter improvements to
                     be made in the city
272      7-1-1954    Rebuilding a sidewalk adjoining the property of E.F. Welch
274      8-5-1954    Providing for the repair and improvements of certain
                     public ways and streets in the city
275      2-3-1955    Declaring the width of N. First Street between Main and
                     Cherry Street
 
TABLE VII: STREET CLOSINGS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
148  - -    Closing the end of a street running between Standard Oil Company’s property
            and the property of T.F. and J.C. Pitchford
687- - -    Closing the public ways in the H.K. Lewis Subdivision
01
538  10-11- Closing the alley severing the lands of Howard Cole
     1976
548  11-14- Closing the public way shown as Beech Street
     1977
607- 6-13-  Closing the public way and city alley to the south side of E. Main Street
88   1988
642- 5-9-   Closing the public ways of property owners’ Dollar General Corporation and
95   1995   Daniel Dalton
670- 9-20-  Closing a portion of N. First Street
99   1999
672- 2-14-  Closing two public ways: an alley between E. Main Street and Old E. Main
2000 2000   Street; and a ten- foot wide portion of Old E. Main Street
701- 12-9-  Closing a portion of the public way known as John Kelly Road in the city
02   2002
715- 10-11- Closing Hope Avenue
04   2004
752- 1-12-  Closing a portion of Vinegar Hill Street
09   2009
753- 3-13-  Closing a public way, being a portion of Vinegar Hill Street
09   2009
761- 11-10- Closing S. Cemetery Street from the northerly right- of-way of W. Maple
09   2009   Street to the southerly right-of-way to W. Main Street
820- 2-12-  Closing a certain public way in the city and being a portion of Old. U.S.
18   2018   Highway 231 near Bays Fork Creek Bridge
869- 4-10-  Closing a public way, being a portion of the Old Burnley Road
23   2023
880- 11-27- Closing a public way, being a portion of Vinegar Hill Street
23   2023
881- 5-28-  Closing street and alley near South Court Street and south of West Maple
24   24     Street
           
 
TABLE VIII: STREET NAMINGS; RENAMINGS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
54       3-5-1930    Renaming several city streets
291      2-6-1958    Designating names for certain streets within the limits of
                     the city
                    
 
TABLE IX: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
234      1-5-1950    Annexing certain unincorporated territory to the corporate
                     limits of the city
278      3-10-1956   Annexing certain territory adjacent to the city
285      4-16-1957   Annexing certain property to the city and designating a
                     new city boundary
318      11-7-1960   Annexing a certain territory adjacent to the city
321      2-6-1961    Annexing certain property to the city
322      7-6-1961    Annexing certain territory to the city known as Woodland
                     Heights subdivision
327      10-2-1961   Annexing Woodland Heights Subdivision
                     Annexing certain territory to the city, said territory
447      2-1-1965    being the portion of Indian Hills Subdivision not now
                     included within the corporate limits
                     Annexing certain territory, said territory being the
448      5-3-1965    portion of Indian Hills Subdivision not now included with
                     the corporate limits
455      7-5-1966    Annexing certain territory, said territory being commonly
                     known as the Colonial-Manor Subdivision
456      11-7-1966   Annexing the Colonial-Manor Subdivision to the city
                     Annexing Southwest Park Subdivision, the County-City High
522      12-26-1974  School, and certain sections of Woodland Heights
                     Subdivision and adjoining areas
                     Annexing Southwest Park Subdivision, the County-City High
525      2-28-1975   School, and certain sections of Woodland Heights
                     Subdivision and adjoining areas
531      12-16-1975  Preliminary ordinance annexing certain contiguous
                     territory to the city
533      3-8-1976    Annexing certain territory contiguous territory to the
                     city
557      7-10-1978   Annexing certain territory contiguous territory to the
                     city
560      1-15-1979   Annexing Washington Overall Manufacturing Company Property
579      1-10-1983   Annexing certain contiguous real property into the city
583      8-8-1983    Annexing certain contiguous real property into the city
                     limits
625-92   1-11-1993   Annexing certain areas contiguous to the present city
                     boundary
630-93   10-11-1993  Annexing certain contiguous real property
631-93   11-15-1993  Annexing certain contiguous real property
632-93   1-10-1994   Annexing certain described areas into the corporate city
                     limits
756-09   6-15-2009   Annexing six unincorporated contiguous parcels of
                     territory into the city
763-10   3-8-2010    Annexing certain unincorporated contiguous territory into
                     the city
819-17   11-13-2017  Annexing certain contiguous territory into the city
                     Annexing certain contiguous real property containing
827-18   2-11-2019   136.151 acres at Veterans Memorial Highway and Johnson
                     Road
842-21   7-26-2021   Annexing certain contiguous territory into the city
862-22   11-14-2022  Annexing a contiguous tract of 0.27 acres into the city
864-22   12-12-2022  Annexing a contiguous tract of 130.205 acres into the city
                    
 
TABLE X: REZONINGS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
667-99   5-10-1999   Rezoning a tract of real estate from AO - Agricultural to
                     GB - General Business, located at 1138 Old Gellatin Road
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from AO - Agricultural to
675-2000 4-10-2000   I1 - Light Industrial District, located at 770 Old
                     Hartsville Road
676-00   6-12-2000   Rezoning a tract of real estate from AO - Agricultural to
                     B2 - General Business District on Old Gellatin Road
677-00   6-22-2000   Rezoning a tract of real estate from AO - Agricultural to
                     General Business District, located, on Hillview Drive
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Agricultural District
682-01   7-9-2001    to Manufactured Home Subdivision District, located at 800
                     Old Hartsville Road
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Single-Family
688-01   1-14-2002   District to Multi- Family District, located between
                     Rediger and Emory Drive, located between Rediger and Emery
                     Drive
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from AO - Agricultural to
689-02   4-8-2002    MF - Multi-Family District, located on a portion of the
                     right- of-way of Old Gallatin Road at Holt Drive
                     intersection
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from SF - Single-Family
690-02   4-9-2002    District to MF - Multi-Family District, located at 99-103
                     and 107-109 Southwest Circle and 118 Oliver Street
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Agricultural District
694-02   6-10-2002   to Multi-Family Residential District, located at 867
                     Franklin Road
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Single-Family
695-02   6-19-2002   Residential District to Multi-Family Residential District,
                     located at 306 N. Eight Street
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Agricultural District
702-02   11-27-2002  to Heavy Industrial District located on Highway 101, Smith
                     Grove Road
703-02   1-13-2003   Rezoning a tract of real estate from AO - Agricultural to
                     General Business, located on Highway 100, Franklin Road
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from AO - Agricultural
705-03   4-14-2003   District GB - General Business District on the southeast
                     corner of E. Maple E. and S. Seventh Street
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from AO - Agricultural to
707-03   9-8-2003    I1- Industrial Light District, located on the north corner
                     of the Old Glasgow Road and Maxwell Drive intersection
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Single-Family
714-04   9-13-2004   Residential District to Commercial District, located on
                     Old Gallatin Road at Woodland Circle Drive
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Agricultural District
716-04   10-11-2004  to General Business Subdivision District, located at 71
                     Lois Moore Drive
719-05   2-14-2005   Rezoning a tract of real estate from Agricultural District
                     to General Business District, located at 382 Franklin Road
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Agricultural District
720-05   5-9-2005    to General Business District, located at 1046 Veterans
                     Memorial Highway
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Single-Family
721-05   5-9-2005    District to General Business District, located on Old E.
                     Main Street
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Single-Family
730-06   8-14-2006   District to General Business District, located at Franklin
                     Road and Old Gallatin Road intersection
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Single-Family
731-06   9-11-2006   District to General Business District, located at 414 E.
                     Main Street
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from AO - Agriculture
733-06   11-13-2006  District to B2 - General Business District, located at 330
                     Franklin Road
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Agriculture District
736-07   6-11-2007   to General Business District, located at 875 Smiths Grove
                     Road
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Single-Family
737-07   6-11-2007   District to General Business District, located at 1151 and
                     1161 Old Gallatin Road
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Agriculture District
740-07   9-10-2007   to General Business District, located at 875 Smiths Grove
                     Road, located on Highway 980, Veterans Memorial Highway
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Agriculture District
741-07   9-10-2007   to General Business District, located at 58, 68, and 82
                     Lois Moore Drive
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Agriculture District
742-07   12-10-2007  to General Business District, located at 32 Lois Moore
                     Drive
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Agriculture District
746-08   7-14-2008   to Heavy Industrial District, located at 12357 Old Glasgow
                     Road
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Agriculture District
747-08   7-14-2008   to Heavy Industrial District, located at the intersection
                     of New Gallatin Road and Sunset Hill Drive that connects
                     to Old Gallatin Road at Allen Memorial Gardens
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Agriculture District
749-08   9-8-2008    to General Business District, located at 131.71 feet from
                     the W. Main Street and Bens Way intersection
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Agriculture District
751-08   11-10-2008  to General Business Subdivision District, located on W.
                     Holt Drive
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from AO - Agriculture
758-09   7-20-2009   District to I1 - Light Industrial District, located at 323
                     Maysville Road
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Single-Family
760-09   11-9-2009   District to General Business District, located at 710 and
                     712 N. Seventh Street
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Agriculture District
762-10   - -2010     to General Business District, located at Veterans Memorial
                     Highway
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Single-Family
768-10   - - 2010    District to General Business District, located at 1191 and
                     1199 Old Gallatin Road
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Agriculture District
764-10   6-14-2010   to General Business District, located at 1595 Veterans
                     Memorial Highway
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Agriculture District
769-11   1-10-2011   to General Business District, located at 1088 Veterans
                     Memorial Highway
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Agriculture District
770-11   2-14-2011   to General Business District, located at the intersection
                     of Franklin Road and New Gallatin Road
771-11   3-14-2011   Rezoning a tract of real estate from Agriculture District
                     to General Business District, located at 124 Franklin Road
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from General Business
773-11   5-9-2011    District to Heavy Industrial District, located at the
                     intersection of Franklin Road
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Agriculture District
776-11   9-12-2011   to Light Industrial, located at the intersection of Fire
                     Station Road and New Gallatin Road
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Single-Family
777-11   9-12-2011   District to Multi- Family District, located at the
                     intersection of E. Poplar Street and N. Sixth Street
780-12   4-9-2012    Rezoning a tract of real estate from Agriculture District
                     to Heavy Industrial, located at 192 W. Wood Street
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Single-Family
781-12   4-9-2012    District to General Business District, located at 308 and
                     310 E. Main Street
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Single-Family
782-12   4-9-2012    District to Multi- Family District, located on Emery Drive
                     0.7 miles from the Old Hartsville Road intersection
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Single-Family
786-12   12-11-2012  District to General Business District, located at 577 and
                     625 Veterans Memorial Highway
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Single-Family
788-13   2-11-2013   District to General Business District, located at 1073
                     Bowling Green Road
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Agricultural District
789-13   5-13-2013   to General Business District, located at 1732 Old Gallatin
                     Road at the intersection of Old Gallatin Road and Holt
                     Drive
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Single-Family
795-14   8-11-2014   District to General Business District, located on Shagbark
                     Trace
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from Single-Family
799-15   3-9-2015    District to Multi- Family District, located at 502 N.
                     Fourth Street
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from AO Agricultural
802-15   9-14-2015   District to B-2 General Business District, located at 188
                     Franklin Road
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from SF Single-Family
805-16   11-11-2016  District to B-2 General Business District, located at 811
                     East Main Street
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from SF Single-Family
808-16   4-11-2016   District to B-2 General Business District, located at 391
                     Holt Drive
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from SF-Single Family
821-18   3-13-2018   District to MF-Multi-Family District, located at 307 North
                     Eighth Street
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate from SF-Single Family
822-18   3-13-2018   District to B2-General Business District located at the NW
                     corner of East Main Street and North Eighth Street
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate, containing approximately
826-18   12-17-2018  1.78 acres, located at 1600 Bowling Green Road, from
                     General Business District to Light Industrial District
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate, containing 0.625 acres,
830-19   7-8-2019    located at 320 N. 8th Street, from Single Family to Multi-
                     Family
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate, containing 3.16 acres,
836-21   2-8-2021    located at 311 N. 3rd Street, from Single Family to Multi-
                     Family
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate, containing 8.766 acres,
837-21   1-11-2021   located at 732 New Gallatin Road, from Single Family to
                     General Business
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate, containing 0.312 acres
843-21   7-12-2021   located at 1204 Bowling Green Road/Dell Harbor Drive, from
                     Agriculture to Single Family
                     Establishing zoning for a newly annexed tract of real
846-21   8-9-2021    estate, containing 49.4968 acres on Veterans Memorial
                     Highway at its southeast terminus, as Single Family,
                     General Business, and Multi-Family
850-22   1-24-2022   Rezoning a tract of real estate, containing 2.69 acre
                     located at 400 Oliver Street, from Agriculture to Business
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate, containing 0.55 acres
851-22   2-28-2022   located at 216 East Lane, from Single Family to Multi-
                     Family
                     Rezoning two tracts of real estate, totaling 139.04 acres
853-22   3-14-2022   located at 875 Smiths Grove Road from Agriculture to
                     Business
                     Rezoning a tract of real estate, containing 0.312 acres
854-22   3-14-2022   located at 1204 Veterans Memorial Highway/Bowling Green
                     Road, from Single Family to Business
859-22   9-26–2022 Rezoning a tract of land, containing 0.45 acres located at
                     135 Cottage Drive, from Single Family to Multi-Family
860-22   9-26-2022   Rezoning a tract of land, containing 1.23 acres located at
                     140 Cottage Drive, from Single Family to Multi-Family
861-22   10-24-2022  Rezoning a tract of land, containing 2.054 acres located
                     at 38 North Street, from Single Family to Multi-Family
                     Rezoning tracts of land, containing 1.49 acres located at
863-22   11-28-2022  28 Tulip Street and 14 Tulip Street, from Single Family to
                     Multi-Family
866-23   3-13-2023   Rezoning a tract of land, containing 0.91 acres located at
                     160 Holt Drive, from Agriculture to Business
879-23   12-11-2023  Rezoning a tract of land, containing 0.34 acres located at
                     302 East Maple Street, from Single-Family to Multi-Family
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section             Code Section
Ch. 13B                 114.04
15.111 to 15.510        32.46
15.410 to 15.510        30.01,
                        32.46
17.150                  32.46
Ch. 58                  53.01
58.010 to 58.140        53.01
61.592 et seq.          33.04
61.805                  154.04
61.870 through 61.884   33.32,
                        155.07
61.870 to 61.882        31.16
61.872 to 61.884        33.28
61.878                  155.07
65.003                  33.22
65.007                  32.06
                        32.65,
65.8801 to 65.8839      32.66,
                        32.78
65.8815(5)              32.69
65A.010 to 65A.090      32.06
65A.030                 32.06
67.077                  150.02
82.082                  33.22
Ch. 83A                 153.195
83A.010(5)              10.02
83A.010(6)              10.02
83A.010(8)              10.02
83A.050                 30.02
83A.060                 33.33
83A.065                 10.99
83A.080                 31.15,
                        33.23
83A.080(2),(3)          31.15
83A.080(3)              31.15
83A.085                 31.16
83A.090                 10.18 
83A.130(1)              31.01,
                        31.02
83A.130(2)              31.02
83A.130(11)             31.45
83A.170                 30.02
90.310 to 90.390        32.47
91A.010(8)              10.02
91A.080(10)             111.01
91A.345 to 91A.394      32.06
91A.390(2)              32.06
92.280                  34.11
96.934                  53.01
                        32.02,
                        151.01 ,
                        153.040,
Ch. 100                 153.050,
                        153.185,
                        153.196,
                        153.197,
                        153.211
100.121                 32.02
100.127                 32.02
100.127(2)              32.02
100.131                 32.02
100.133                 32.02
100.141                 32.02
100.143                 32.02
100.147                 32.02
100.151                 32.02
100.153                 32.02
100.157                 32.02
100.161                 32.02
100.163                 32.02
100.167                 32.02
100.173                 32.02
100.177                 32.02
100.183                 32.02
100.187                 32.02
100.193                 32.02,
                        152.01
100.211                 153.197
100.212                 153.185
100.271                 153.185
100.253                 113.03
100.982(1)              153.040
100.985 to 100.987      155.08
100.985(3)              155.05
100.985(5)              155.05
100.987                 155.06
                        153.171,
100.991                 153.177,
                        153.231
131.010(6)              111.01
132.487                 34.09
134.800                 34.09
134.815                 34.09
Ch. 136                 34.03
Ch. 151                 151.05
151.250                 151.06
Ch. 154A                114.04
154.50-316              32.04
154.50-320              32.04
154.50-326              32.04
177.055                 91.15
177.047                 91.15
186.560                 71.25
189.020                 71.27
189.290                 71.25
189.330(8)              71.02
189.338                 70.15
189.580                 71.15
189.920(3)              32.48
189.930                 71.26
189.990                 70.15
189.993(8)              71.99
190.010                 153.040
198B.010(4)             150.02
198B.010(5)             150.02
198B.050 et seq.        150.02
198B.060                150.02
198B.070                150.02
211.970(4)              53.30
Ch. 218A                114.04
218B.130(2)(a)1         115.01
Ch. 224                 153.051
Ch. 227                 94.01—
                        94.03
227.200 to 227.400      32.99
227.400                 32.99
227.700                 94.01
227.702                 94.01
                        94.01,
227.702(1)              94.03,
                        94.04
227.702(2) and (3)      94.03,
                        94.04
227.710                 94.01,
                        94.03
227.715                 94.01
227.750                 94.99
Ch. 238                 114.04
                        114.01,
Ch. 241 through 244     114.03,
                        114.04,
                        114.07
241.100                 114.03
241.160                 114.03
241.170                 114.03
241.200                 114.04
Ch. 243                 114.08
243.030                 114.04
243.036                 114.04
243.040                 114.02
243.070                 114.02
243.075                 114.02
243.090                 114.02
243.450                 114.04
243.480                 114.99
243.490                 114.04
243.500                 114.04
243.550                 114.04
244.050                 114.08
244.085                 114.07
244.085(5)              114.07
244.087                 114.06
244.090                 114.06
244.090(2)              114.06
244.130                 114.11
244.150                 114.03
244.500                 114.06
257.010                 90.01
257.100(1)              90.07
257.100(2)              90.07
257.100(3)              90.07
257.100(4)              90.07
278.010(3)              155.05
Ch. 350                 151.05
381.805 through 381.910 153.040,
                        153.042
381.835                 153.042
381.835(5)              153.042
                        32.22,
                        153.016,
Ch. 424                 153.187,
                        153.195,
                        153.211
424.120                 114.04
424.130(1)(b)           34.07
424.140(3)              34.07
424.260                 34.07
431.015                 153.231
436.600                 90.05,
                        90.99
446.010(1)              10.02
446.010(2)              10.02
446.010(9)              10.02
446.010(10)             10.02
446.010(12)             10.02
446.010(13)             10.02
446.010(14)             10.02
446.010(15)             10.02
446.010(17)             10.02
446.010(18)             10.02
446.010(23)             10.02
446.010(25)             10.02
446.010(26)             10.02
446.010(27)             10.02
446.010(28)             10.02
446.010(30)             10.02
446.010(31)             10.02
446.010(33)             10.02
446.010(37)             10.02
446.010(39)             10.02
446.010(43)             10.02
446.010(46)             10.02
446.010(47)             10.02
446.010(49)             10.02
446.010(55)             10.02
446.020(1)              10.03
446.020(2)              10.03
446.030                 10.04 
446.050                 10.05
446.060                 10.06
446.080(1)              10.03
446.080(3)              10.03
446.080(4)              10.03
446.090                 10.07
446.100                 10.08
446.110                 10.09
446.140                 10.01
500.090                 113.99
506.030                 113.04
Ch. 510                 113.04
522.030                 155.07
525.125                 90.03,
                        90.04
                        90.03,
525.130                 90.04,
                        90.99
525.135                 90.04,
                        90.99
527.020(2)              32.46
Ch. 528                 113.04
Ch. 529                 113.04
Ch. 531                 113.04
532.020(4)              130.99
534.040(2)(c)           10.99
914.010                 91.01
Ch. 2224                53.54
Ch. 3459                34.10
                        
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
2         - -         91.17,
                      91.99
3         - -         91.16,
                      91.99
4         9-7-1923    91.18,
                      91.99
5         11-14-1923  TSO Table II
7         1-7-1924    34.08
16        9-4-1924    Ch. 74, Schd. I
19        1-1-1925    34.10
20        3-5-1925    32.05,
                      32.99
23        4-2-1925    TSO Table V
30        5-16-1925   TSO Table VI
31        6-4-1925    Ch. 73, Schd. IV
38        9-4-1926    70.02,
                      70.99
44        7-7-1928    150.05
49        7-3-1929    TSO Table I
51        2-11-1930   TSO Table III
54        3-5-1930    TSO Table VIII
52        3-6-1930    TSO Table III
55        4-3-1930    150.05
59        9-4-1930    Ch. 73, Schd. III
80        3-2-1933    53.36,
                      53.99
88        7-6-1933    TSO Table I
101       8-15-1935   TSO Table IV
103       9-5-1935    TSO Table IV
106       - -         53.34
107       11-20-1935  TSO Table IV
108       11-20-1935  TSO Table IV
109       11-20-1935  TSO Table IV
114       6-4-1937    91.01,
                      91.99
121       6-2-1938    TSO Table VI
123       6-2-1938    72.02
122       7-7-1938    TSO Table VI
134       12-26-1939  32.47
139       6-6-1940    32.47
141       6-25-1940   TSO Table VI
145       9-5-1940    32.47
148       - -         TSO Table VII
153       6-4-1942    34.07
154       7-2-1942    TSO Table III
155       7-2-1942    TSO Table III
159       12-3-1942   91.30,
                      91.99
165       1-6-1944    32.22
171       12-7-1944   TSO Table III
172       12-18-1944  TSO Table III
173       4-5-1945    TSO Table III
174       5-3-1945    TSO Table III
176       6-7-1945    72.02
178       - -         TSO Table II
179       1-3-1946    32.23
180       1-3-1946    32.01
183       4-4-1946    Ch. 74, Schd. V
197       3-6-1947    150.06,
                      150.99
210       3-10-1948   Ch. 74, Schd. II
214       6-3-1948    Ch. 74, Schd. III
215       7-1-1948    91.01
216       9-13-1948   Ch. 74, Schd. II
219       12-2-1948   32.21
221       12-2-1948   32.20
223       1-6-1949    Ch. 74, Schd. II
224       3-3-1949    Ch. 74, Schd. V
227       7-20-1949   Ch. 74, Schd. V
234       1-5-1950    TSO Table IX
238       6-1-1950    Ch. 74, Schd. III
243       9-3-1951    TSO Table II
244       10-4-1951   91.01
246       3-6-1952    Ch. 74, Schd. II
250       6-6-1952    91.01
252       8-1-1952    34.06
255       8-25-1952   TSO Table II
256       - -         TSO Table III
257       - -         TSO Table III
262       6-6-1953    53.17
272       7-1-1954    TSO Table VI
274       8-5-1954    TSO Table VI
275       2-3-1955    TSO Table VI
278       3-10-1956   TSO Table IX
282       2-7-1957    Ch. 73, Schd. III
                      112.01—
283       3-7-1957    112.05,
                      112.99
                      112.20—
284       3-7-1957    112.28,
                      112.99
285       4-16-1957   TSO Table IX
286       6-6-1957    91.01,
                      91.99
287       6-6-1957    93.02
291       2-6-1958    TSO Table VIII
295       5-8-1958    90.08
298       - -         150.05,
                      150.99
299       8-7-1958    TSO Table IV
300       12-4-1958   TSO Table IV
313       8-29-1960   53.17
316       10-3-1960   53.01
318       11-7-1960   TSO Table IX
320       1-2-1961    91.15
321       2-6-1961    TSO Table IX
322       7-6-1961    TSO Table IX
327       10-2-1961   TSO Table IX
328       - -         32.05
334       6-21-1962   91.01,
                      91.99
339       10-7-1963   32.05,
                      32.99
440       3-2-1964    TSO Table IV
442       7-6-1964    51.01
443       7-6-1964    53.01,
                      53.18
445       8-3-1964    93.02
447       2-1-1965    TSO Table IX
448       5-3-1965    TSO Table IX
449       5-3-1965    TSO Table III
453       4-4-1966    TSO Table III
455       7-5-1966    TSO Table IX
456       11-7-1966   TSO Table IX
459       4-8-1968    52.01,
                      52.99
467       10-20-1969  TSO Table II
469       11-17-1969  53.01,
                      53.99
473       2-10-1970   51.02
476       3-16-1970   51.03
484       9-7-1971    Ch. 73, Schd. II,
                      Ch. 74, Schd. II
486       1-3-1972    31.45
487       2-14-1972   33.01
496       3-12-1973   32.46
497       7-9-1973    32.45
503       - -         34.05
504       2-11-1974   Ch. 74, Schd. II
505       3-11-1974   33.02
506       6-10-1974   71.99
507       7-8-1974    53.32
511       8-12-1974   32.46
512       9-9-1974    53.33
517       11-11-1974  TSO Table V
518       11-11-1974  33.01
522       12-26-1974  TSO Table IX
525       2-28-1975   TSO Table IX
526       - -         150.04,
                      150.99
527       5-12-1975   TSO Table V
531       12-16-1975  TSO Table IX
533       3-8-1976    TSO Table IX
534       3-8-1976    34.04
537       8-9-1976    Ch. 73, Schd. I
538       10-11-1976  TSO Table VII
539       11-8-1976   Ch. 73, Schd. III
541       3-14-1977   30.01
542       3-14-1977   53.15
545       4-11-1977   TSO Table IV
548       11-14-1977  TSO Table VII
549       11-14-1977  TSO Table V
554       6-12-1987   Ch. 73, Schd. V
557       7-10-1978   TSO Table IX
560       1-15-1979   TSO Table IX
564       9-10-1979   TSO Table III
565       10-8-1979   32.02
567       1-14-1980   32.22
572       9-8-1980    50.03
573       11-10-1980  111.02
574       2-9-1981    30.02
579       1-10-1983   TSO Table IX
581       4-11-1983   51.04,
                      51.99
583       8-8-1983    TSO Table IX
584       10-10-1983  33.03
587       2-6-1984    33.04
592       - -         53.35
593       10-8-1984   34.09
594       11-12-1984  150.02
595       11-13-1984  111.01
607-88    6-13-1988   TSO Table VII
625-92    1-11-1993   TSO Table IX
627-93    4-12-1993   34.02
628-93    5-17-1993   TSO Table II
630-93    10-11-1993  TSO Table IX
631-93    11-15-1993  TSO Table IX
632-93    1-10-1994   TSO Table IX
635-94    6-20-1994   33.05
                      33.20—
637-94    10-20-1994  33.33,
                      33.99
641-95(A) 1-19-1995   TSO Table III
642-95    5-9-1995    TSO Table VII
                      130.01—
646-95    9-11-1995   130.03,
                      130.99
649-96    4-8-1996    53.32
651-96    8-12-1996   34.03
653-96    10-14-1996  52.01
656-97    5-5-1997    53.35
658-97    7-29-1997   53.16
660-98    2-10-1998   152.01
                      153.001—
                      153.017,
                      153.025—
                      153.033,
                      153.040—
                      153.042,
                      153.050—
                      153.055,
                      153.065—
                      153.075,
                      153.085—
                      153.089,
                      153.100—
                      153.109,
                      153.115—
665-98    12-21-1998  153.119,
                      153.125—
                      153.132,
                      153.140—
                      153.145,
                      153.155—
                      153.161,
                      153.185—
                      153.187,
                      153.196,
                      153.197,
                      153.205—
                      153.220,
                      153.230—
                      153.232,
                      153.240,
                      153.241
666-98    12-21-1998  153.195
664-98    1-11-1999   72.01
667-99    5-10-1999   TSO Table X
669-99    9-13-1999   32.02
670-99    9-20-1999   TSO Table VII
673-2000  1-31-2000   93.01
672-2000  2-14-2000   TSO Table VII
674-00    2-14-2000   153.040,
                      153.208
675-2000  4-10-2000   TSO Table X
676-00    6-12-2000   TSO Table X
677-00    6-22-2000   TSO Table X
680-00    10-16-2000  153.040,
                      153.156
682-01    7-9-2001    TSO Table X
                      154.01—
648B-01   9-10-2001   154.09,
                      154.99
                      113.01—
685-01    - -         113.07,
                      113.99
687-01    - -         TSO Table VII
688-01    1-14-2002   TSO Table X
689-02    4-8-2002    TSO Table X
690-02    4-9-2002    TSO Table X
691-02    4-9-2002    50.01
693-02    4-9-2002    TSO Table III
692-02    5-13-2002   150.03
694-02    6-10-2002   TSO Table X
695-02    6-19-2002   TSO Table X
697-02    8-12-2002   155.01—
                      155.11
698-02    11-18-2002  150.02
702-02    11-27-2002  TSO Table X
701-02    12–9-2002 TSO Table VII
703-02    1-13-2003   TSO Table X
704-03    2-10-2003   150.02
705-03    4-14-2003   TSO Table X
707-03    9-8-2003    TSO Table X
711-04    6-7-2004    52.02,
                      53.01
710-04    6-14-2004   150.01
713-04    7-12-2004   90.08
714-04    9-13-2004   TSO Table X
715-04    10-11-2004  TSO Table VII
716-04    10-11-2004  TSO Table X
718-04    1-10-2005   34.01
719-05    2-14-2005   TSO Table X
720-05    5-9-2005    TSO Table X
721-05    5-9-2005    TSO Table X
730-06    8-14-2006   TSO Table X
731-06    9-11-2006   TSO Table X
733-06    11-13-2006  TSO Table X
                      154.01—
734-06    11-13-2006  154.09,
                      154.99
735-07    3-12-2007   50.02
736-07    6-11-2007   TSO Table X
737-07    6-11-2007   TSO Table X
740-07    9-10-2007   TSO Table X
741-07    9-10-2007   TSO Table X
742-07    12-10-2007  TSO Table X
744-07    1-14-2008   53.31
                      110.01—
745-08    6-9-2008    110.12,
                      110.99
746-08    7-14-2008   TSO Table X
747-08    7-14-2008   TSO Table X
749-08    9-8-2008    TSO Table X
751-08    11-10-2008  TSO Table X
752-09    1-12-2009   TSO Table VII
753-09    3-13-2009   TSO Table VII
754-09    4-27-2009   34.02
755-09    6-15-2009   53.30,
                      53.99
756-09    6-15-2009   TSO Table IX
758-09    7-20-2009   TSO Table X
760-09    11-9-2009   TSO Table X
761-09    11-10-2009  TSO Table VII
762-10    - -2010     TSO Table X
768-10    - -2010     TSO Table X
763-10    3-8-2010    TSO Table IX
764-10    6-14-2010   TSO Table X
769-11    1-10-2011   TSO Table X
770-11    2-14-2011   TSO Table X
771-11    3-14-2011   TSO Table X
                      151.01—
                      151.14,
                      151.25—
772-11    4-11-2011   151.31,
                      151.45—
                      151.47,
                      151.99
773-11    5-9-2011    TSO Table X
                      53.50—
775-11    7-11-2011   53.66,
                      53.99
776-11    9-12-2011   TSO Table X
777-11    9-12-2011   TSO Table X
780-12    4-9-2012    TSO Table X
781-12    4-9-2012    TSO Table X
782-12    4-9-2012    TSO Table X
784-12    8-13-2012   153.065—
                      153.075
786-12    12-11-2012  TSO Table X
787-12    12-11-2012  32.04
788-13    2-11-2013   TSO Table X
789-13    5-13-2013   TSO Table X
793-14    4-14-2014   31.30
795-14    8-11-2014   TSO Table X
796-14    8-11-2014   Ch. 74, Schd. IV
799-15    3-9-2015    TSO Table X
800-15    3-12-2015   111.01
802-15    9-14-2015   TSO Table X
805-16    1-11-2016   TSO Table X
806-16    - -2016     53.54
807-16    4-11-2016   150.02
808-16    4-11-2016   TSO Table X
                      92.01—
809-16    4-11-2016   92.07,
                      92.99
812-17    1-9-2017    32.65—
                      32.81
                      151.08,
813-17    2-13-2017   151.26—
                      151.31
814-17    3-13-2017   150.07
815-17    3-13-2017   111.01
817-17    8-14-2017   Adopting Ordinance
818-17    9-11-2017   34.09
819-17    11-13-2017  TSO Table IX
820-18    2-12-2018   TSO Table VII
821-18    3-13-2018   TSO Table X
822-18    3-13-2018   TSO Table X
824-18    9-10-2018   Adopting Ordinance
826-18    12-17-2018  TSO Table X
827-18    2-11-2019   TSO Table IX
                      90.09—
828-19    4-8-2019    90.11,
                      90.99
830-19    7-8-2019    TSO Table X
831-19    8-12-2019   Adopting Ordinance
835-20    9-14-2020   32.48
836-21    2-8-2021    TSO Table X
837-21    1-11-2021   TSO Table X
839-21    3-22-2021   31.45
840-21    5-24-2021   Ch. 73, Schd. I;
                      Ch. 74, Schd. II
842-21    7-26-2021   TSO Table IX
843-21    7-12-2021   TSO Table X
                      94.01—
844-21    7-12-2021   94.04,
                      94.99
845-21    7-12-2021   50.04
846-21    8-92-2021   TSO Table X
850-22    1-24-2022   TSO Table X
851-22    2-28-2022   TSO Table X
853-22    3-14-2022   TSO Table X
854-22    3-14-2022   TSO Table X
859-22    9-26-2022   TSO Table X
860-22    9-26-2022   TSO Table X
861-22    10-24-2022  TSO Table X
862-22    11-14-2022  TSO Table IX
863-22    11-28-2022  TSO Table X
864-22    12-12-2022  TSO Table IX
865-22    12-12-2022  111.03
866-23    3-13-2023   TSO X
867-23    4-10-2023   32.06
868-23    4-10-2023   111.03
869-23    4-10-2023   TSO VII
872-23    6-26-2023   153.170—
                      153.183
                      114.01—
873-23    6-26-2023   114.12,
                      114.99
876-23    8-28-2023   Adopting Ordinance
877-23    9-11-2023   153.090
880-23    11-27-2023  TSO VII
879-23    12-11-2023  TSO X
881-24    5-28-2024   TSO VII
882-24    6-10-2024   115.01
884-24    6-24-2024   114.02
885-24    7-26-2024   31.45
887-24    12-20-2024  150.01
                     
 
