SENECA GARDENS, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-5 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. No 1, Series 2023, passed 3-20-23
State legislation current through 2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 94-03
ENACTING AS AN ORDINANCE, A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF SENECA GARDENS.
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SAID CODE.
WHEREAS, the present general ordinances of the City of Seneca Gardens are
incomplete and inadequate and the manner of arrangement, classification and
indexing thereof is insufficient to meet the immediate needs of the City; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the State Legislature of the State of Kentucky empower and
authorize the City Legislative Body of this City to revise, amend, restate,
codify and to compile any existing ordinance or ordinances and all new
ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate said
ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Body of the City of Seneca Gardens has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of
a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in book form.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Legislative Body of the City of Seneca
Gardens that:
Section 1. The general ordinances of the City of Seneca Gardens as herein
revised, amended, restated, codified, compiled in book form are adopted as and
shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the City of Seneca Gardens.”
Section 2. Said Code as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the following
titles, to-wit:
         Title I      General Provisions
         Title III   Administration
         Title V      Public Works
         Title VII   Traffic Code
         Title IX   General Regulations
         Title XI   Business Regulations
         Title XIII   General Offenses
         Title XV   Land Usage
         Tables of Special Ordinances
         Parallel References
         Index
Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in said Code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of said Code except
as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in said Code; provided
such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty incurred or any
right established prior to the effective date of said Code, nor shall such
repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money,
annexing or detaching territory establishing franchises or granting special
rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the
issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of
real or personal property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication
of land to public use, naming or vacating or setting the boundaries of streets,
alleys or other public places, nor to any other ordinance of a temporary or
special nature or pertaining to subjects not contained therein.
Section 4. Said Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the City Legislative Body and the Clerk of the City of Seneca
Gardens is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of said Code in the
Office of the City Clerk.
Section 5. Said Code shall be in full force and effect from the date of its
publication and filing thereof in the Office of the Clerk, and said Code shall
be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the ordinance and all
provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein contained and of the
date of passage, and that the same is properly signed, attested, recorded and
approved and that any public hearings and notices thereof as required by law
have been given.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Legislative Body of the City of Seneca Gardens
this 17th day of October, 1994.
   James F. MacDonald /s/
   Mayor
First Reading: September 19, 1994
Second Reading: October 17, 1994
Date of Adoption and Publication: November 21, 1994
ATTEST:   Laura Shaughnessy /s/
   City Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Seneca Gardens Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may
be substituted. Title heads, chapter heads, section and subsection heads or
titles, and explanatory notes and cross references, in the Kentucky Revised
Statutes, do not constitute any part of the law, except as provided in KRS
355.1-107. (KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state. (KRS 446.010
(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code shall
denote the City of Seneca Gardens irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMMISSION. The City Commission. (KRS 83A.010(3))
      COMMONWEALTH. The Commonwealth or State of Kentucky.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association. (KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association. (KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNTY. Jefferson County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted. (KRS
446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees. (KRS
446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state. (KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat. (KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The City Commission. (KRS 83A.010(6))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States. (KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
business trust, statutory trust, or limited liability company, includes all
those incorporated or formed by authority of this state. (KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest. (KRS
446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Commission. (KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Commissioner. (KRS 83A.010(8))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive. (KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month. (KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Seneca Gardens, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes AFFIRMATION in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010(28))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, policemen, and other persons with similar authority to make
arrests. (KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies. (KRS 446.010 (33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd numbered years at which state
officers are elected. (KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory. (KRS 446.010(39))
   SWORN. Includes AFFIRMED in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010(43))
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State or Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Such as exists when there is an unexpired part of a term
of office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the person elected or
appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, county, city, or district, or otherwise. (KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with. (KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year. (KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things. (KRS
446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males. (KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of City
Commission. (KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared. (KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to such meaning. (KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or notice shall
mean the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty
or compliance with such notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
officers or other persons. (KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be construed to
include such acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of City Commission in enacting
any ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that City
Commission would not have enacted the remaining parts without the
unconstitutional part, or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are
incomplete and incapable of being executed in accordance with the intent of
City Commission.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of City Commission.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of City Commission as long as it takes effect prior to the
effective date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
City Commission which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of City Commission as long as
the repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the
original amendment.
   (E)   No other action of City Commission repealing a repealer or an
amendment shall have the effect of reviving the original language of the
repealer or amendment as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of such proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, such provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the City
Commission, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional
ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the
ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving such
purpose effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall
remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances
until City Commission shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.37 should be used by the city to amend, add, or repeal a chapter, section,
or division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of such error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for-word the same as the statute. Example: (KRS
83A.090) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85). If a KRS cite
is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text of the section, this
indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for further information.
Example:
§ 31.10 MAYOR.
   The executive authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised by the
Mayor.
(Ord. 10, passed 1-1-80)
Statutory reference:
   For powers and duties of the Mayor, see KRS 83A.130
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
Statutory reference:
   Fine amount for ordinance violations authorized by state law, see KRS
83A.065 and 534.040
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Adoption of city seal
§ 11.01 ADOPTION OF CITY SEAL.
   The seal, an impression of which is affixed to the Ordinance passed 8-26-46,
shall be and is the official seal of the city.
(Ord. passed 8-26-46)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COMMISSION PLAN
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY COMMISSION
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
35.   TAXATION
      
36.   CODE OF ETHICS
CHAPTER 30: COMMISSION PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided in this chapter shall be known as the
“Commission Plan.”
(KRS 83A.140(1))
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected officer who shall be called
Mayor and by elected legislative body members who shall be called City
Commissioners and which together shall be known as the City Commission and by
such other officers and employees as may be provided for by statute or city
ordinance. (KRS 83A.140(2))
    (B)   The City Commission shall be composed of the Mayor and four
Commissioners. An ordinance amending the number of Commission members shall be:
      (1)   Enacted and filed with the County Clerk of any county or counties
in which the city is located by no later than the first Wednesday after the
first Monday in November of the year preceding the year in which the
legislative offices will appear on the ballot; and
      (2)   Crafted in such a manner that the amended number of Commission
members becomes effective on January 1 of the year following the election of
the number of Commission members specified in the amending ordinance.
(KRS 83A.030(2))
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath; bond
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
Elected Officials
   
31.20   Election procedure
   
31.21   Mayor; Mayor Pro Tem
   
31.22   Commissioners
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.35   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.36   City Clerk
   
31.37   Architect
   
31.38   City Attorney
   
31.39   City Engineer
   
31.40   Forester (Arborist)
   
31.41   City Treasurer
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH; BOND.
   (A)   Oath. Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his office, take the following oath: “I do solemnly
swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of
this Commonwealth, and the Constitution of the United States, and be faithful
and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue a citizen
thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the
office of           , according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or
affirm) that, since the adoption of the present Constitution, I being a citizen
of this United States, have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this
State, nor out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel
with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor
aided or assisted any person thus offending, so help me God,” as established by
section 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (B)   Certification. Certification of the person administering the oath of
office to an elected official shall certify in writing that the oath was
administered and the date of its administration. Said certification shall be
filed in accordance with KRS 62.020.
   (C)   Bond. 
      (1)   All officers, officials, and employees of cities, counties, urban-
county governments, charter county governments, a regional wastewater
commission, and special districts who handle public funds in the execution of
their duties shall give a good and sufficient bond to the local governing body
for the faithful and honest performance of his or her duties and as security
for all money coming into that person's hands or under that person's control.
The bond amount shall be based upon the maximum amount of public funds the
officer, official, or employee handles at any given time during a fiscal year
cycle. The local governing body shall pay the cost of the bond.
      (2)   Elected officials who post bond as required by statute, and
employees of their offices covered by a blanket or umbrella bond, shall be
deemed to have complied with division (C)(1) above.
(KRS 65.067)
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Commission shall by ordinance fix the compensation of every
elected city officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in
which the officer is elected. An elected officer's compensation shall not be
changed after his election or during his term of office.
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of the Mayor and Commissioners
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department for Local Government
computes by the second Friday in February of every year the annual increase or
decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using 1949 as the
base year in accordance with section 246 of the Constitution of Kentucky, which
provides that the Mayor and Commissioners shall be paid at a rate no greater
than $7,200 per annum.
      (2)   The Commission shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Department for Local Government.
   (B)   The Commission shall fix the compensation of each appointed city
officer by ordinance and may change it by ordinance.
   (C)   The Commission shall establish the compensation of city employees in
accordance with the personnel and pay classification plan ordinance of the
city.
   (D)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
inability, or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his office,
may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the Commission
exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the deliberation
of his removal. No elected officer shall be removed without having been given
the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed, has the right to
appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall be on the
record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated before the
expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Commission at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(3)
ELECTED OFFICERS
§ 31.20 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Election of city officers is governed by general election laws as
provided in KRS Chapters 116 through 121 unless the Commission prescribes by
ordinance that election of city officers shall be under nonpartisan city
election laws as provided in KRS Chapter 83A. Such ordinance shall become
effective not later than 23 days prior to the date prescribed by the election
law generally for filing notification and declaration forms with the County
Clerk in a year in which a regular election is to be held in which any city
office is to be filled. Immediately subsequent to publication of any ordinance
prescribing that election of city officers be under nonpartisan city election
laws, a copy of the ordinance shall be filed with the County Clerk of the
county in which the city is located.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) of this section by ordinance, except that no change
shall be made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and Commissioners may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
Statutory reference:
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080(4), (5)
§ 31.21 MAYOR; MAYOR PRO TEM.
   (A)   Election. The Mayor shall be elected by the voters of each city at a
regular election. A candidate for Mayor shall be a resident of the city for not
less than one year prior to his or her election. His or her term of office
shall begin on the first day of January following his or her election and shall
be for four years and until his or her successor qualifies. If a person is
elected or appointed as Mayor in response to a vacancy and serves less than
four calendar years, then that period of service shall not be considered for
purposes of re-election a term of office. A Mayor shall be at least 21 years of
age, shall be a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city
throughout his or her term of office. (KRS 83A.040(1))
   (B)   Vacancy.
      (1)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, the Commission shall
fill the vacancy within 30 days. (KRS 83A.040(2)(a))
      (2)   The legislative body shall elect from among its members an
individual to preside over meetings of the legislative body during any vacancy
in the office of Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130 to
83A.150. (KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
      (3)   When voting to fill the vacancy created by a resignation of a Mayor
the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his successor. (KRS 83A.040(3))
      (4)   If for any reason, any vacancy in the office of Mayor is not filled
within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill the vacancy by
appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same period as if
otherwise appointed. (KRS 83A.040(6))
      (5)   No vacancy by reason of voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a resignation
date is tendered to the Commission. The resignation may be submitted through
electronic mail if it originates from the official’s electronic mail address
and includes also the official’s handwritten signature. The resignation shall
be effective at the next regular or special meeting of the Commission occurring
on or after the date specified in the written letter of resignation. If a
resignation date is not specified, the written resignation shall be deemed to
become effective at the first regular or special meeting of the Commission
occurring on or after its receipt. (KRS 83A.040(7))
      (6)   Pursuant to KRS 118.305(7), if a vacancy occurs which is required
by law to be filled temporarily by appointment, the Commission or the Governor,
whichever is designated to make the appointment, shall immediately notify in
writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy. (KRS
83A.040(8))
   (C)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Commission and may
vote in all proceedings.
      (2)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city
authorized by ordinance or resolution shall be executed by the Mayor on behalf
of the city.
(KRS 83A.140(4))
      (3)   The Mayor shall serve as the ceremonial head of city government.
(Ord. 90-04, passed 2-19-90)
   (D)   Mayor Pro Tem.
      (1)   The Commission shall designate one City Commissioner to serve as
Mayor Pro Tem. The Mayor Pro Tem shall act for the Mayor whenever the Mayor is
unable to attend to the duties of his office and he shall then possess all
rights, powers, and duties of Mayor.
      (2)   If the disability of the Mayor to attend to his duties continues
for 60 consecutive days, the office of Mayor may be declared vacant by a
majority vote of the Commission membership, and the provisions of division (C)
above shall apply.
(KRS 83A.140(4))
§ 31.22 COMMISSIONERS.
   For provisions concerning the City Commission, see
Chapter 32.
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office;
      (4)   Bond, if required; and
      (5)   Compensation, which may be specifically established or set by
reference to another ordinance in which the compensation is specifically
established.
   (B)   All nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Commission.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Commission at will
unless otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (D)   The following are nonelected city offices:
      (1)   City Clerk;
      (2)   Architect;
      (3)   City Attorney;
      (4)   City Engineer;
      (5)   Forester;
      (6)   City Treasurer.
(Ord. 90-02, passed 2-19-90; Am. Ord. 92-01, passed 3-16-92)
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1), (3)
§ 31.36 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   The office of the City Clerk may, by ordinance, be combined with any
other nonelected city office by inclusion of the title and duties of such
office.
   (C)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk shall include, but are
not limited to the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the "official custodian" or
"custodian" in accordance with KRS 61.870 to 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used;
      (4)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail or electronically
submit to the Department for Local Government a list containing current city
information including but not limited to the following:
         (a)   The correct name, telephone number, and electronic mail address
of the Mayor, Commission members, and the correct name, telephone number, and
electronic mail address for the city's appointed officials or employees who are
serving in the following roles or substantially similar roles as of January 1
of each year:
            1.   City Clerk;
            2.   City Treasurer;
            3.   City Manager;
            4.   City Attorney;
            5.   Human Resources Director;
            6.   Police Chief;
            7.   Fire Chief;
            8.   Public Works Director;
            9.   Risk Manager;
            10.   Information Technology Manager;
            11.   Public Relations or Communications Officer; and
            12.   Planning and Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for city hall, and
telephone number of city hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.;
      (5)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk by statute or ordinance.
(KRS 83A.085(1) - (3)(e))
   (D)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City
Commission from time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
   (E)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk unless such
person has taken the oath required by section 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond in the amount of $100,000, with
corporate surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and conditioned
upon the performance of the duties specified herein.
§ 31.37 ARCHITECT.
   (A)   The city establishes the office of Architect.
   (B)   The powers and duties of the Architect shall be as provided by statute
or ordinance.
   (C)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established from time to time
by the City Commission.
   (D)   No such person shall be appointed or act as Architect unless such
person has taken the oath required by section 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond in the amount of $100,000 with
corporate surety authorized to transact business in the Commonwealth and
conditioned upon the performance of the specified duties.
§ 31.38 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The city establishes the office of City Attorney.
   (B)   The powers and duties of the City Attorney shall be as provided by
statute or ordinance.
   (C)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established from time to time
by the City Commission.
   (D)   No such person shall be appointed or act as City Attorney unless such
person has taken the oath required by section 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond in the amount of $100,000 with
corporate surety authorized to transact business in the Commonwealth and
conditioned upon the performance of the specified duties.
§ 31.39 CITY ENGINEER.
   (A)   The city establishes the office of City Engineer.
   (B)   The powers and duties of the City Engineer shall be as provided by
statute or ordinance.
   (C)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established from time to time
by the City Commission.
   (D)   No such person shall be appointed or act as City Engineer unless such
person has taken the oath required by section 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond in the amount of $100,000 with
corporate surety authorized to transact business in the Commonwealth and
conditioned upon the performance of the specified duties.
§ 31.40 FORESTER (ARBORIST).
   (A)   The city establishes the office of Forester (Arborist).
   (B)   The powers and duties of the Forester shall be as provided by statute
or ordinance.
   (C)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established from time to time
by the City Commission.
   (D)   No such person shall be appointed or act as Forester (Arborist) unless
such person has taken the oath required by section 228 of the Constitution of
the Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond in the amount of $100,000
with corporate surety authorized to transact business in the Commonwealth and
conditioned upon the performance of the specified duties.
§ 31.41 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   The city establishes the office of City Treasurer.
   (B)   The powers and duties of the City Treasurer shall be as provided by
statute or ordinance.
   (C)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established from time to time
by the City Commission.
   (D)   No such person shall be appointed or act as City Treasurer unless such
person has taken the oath required by section 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond in the amount of $100,000 with
corporate surety authorized to transact business in the Commonwealth and
conditioned upon the performance of the specified duties.
CHAPTER 32: CITY COMMISSION
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
   
32.04   Each Commissioner to superintend specific city departments
Rules of Procedure
   
32.20   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.21   Meetings
   
32.22   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.35   One subject; title
   
32.36   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.37   Form of amendment
   
32.38   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.39   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.40   Official city records
   
32.41   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.42   Publication requirements
   
32.43   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.44   Periodic review required
   
32.45   Municipal orders
   
32.46   Proved by City Clerk; received in evidence
   
32.47   Legislative immunity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; residency; term of office; qualifications.
      (1)   Each legislative body member shall be elected at large by the
voters of each city at a regular election.
      (2)   A candidate for a legislative body shall be a resident of the city
for not less than one year prior to his or her election.
      (3)   His or her term of office shall begin on the first day of January
following his or her election and shall be for two years, except as provided by
KRS 83A.050.
      (4)   A member shall be at least 18 years of age, shall be a qualified
voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or her term of
office
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02.
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancy.
      (1)   If one or more vacancies on the Commission occur in a way that one
or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30 days fill
the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice of his
or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with the remaining
members in making further appointments until all vacancies are filled. If
vacancies occur in a
way that all seats become vacant, the Governor shall appoint qualified persons
to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute a quorum. Remaining vacancies
shall be filled as provided in this section. (KRS 83A.040(5))
      (2)   No vacancy by reason of voluntary resignation on the Commission
shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a resignation date is
tendered to the Commission. The resignation shall be effective at the next
regular or special meeting of the Commission occurring after the date specified
in the written letter of resignation. (KRS 83A.040(7))
      (3)   Pursuant to KRS 118.305(7), if a vacancy occurs which is required
by law to be filled temporarily by appointment, the Commission or the Governor,
whichever is designated to make the appointment, shall immediately notify in
writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy. (KRS
83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason, any vacancy in the
Commission is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed. (KRS 83A.040(6))
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   All legislative, executive, and administrative authority of the city
is hereby vested in and exercised by the Commission. The Commission shall
enforce the Commission Plan, ordinances and orders of the city, and all
applicable statutes.
      (1)   The Commission shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (2)   The Commission shall supervise all departments of city government
and the conduct of all city officers and employees under its jurisdiction and
may require each department to make such reports to it as it finds necessary.
      (3)   The Commission shall report to the public on the condition and
needs of the city government as provided by ordinance, but not less than
annually.
(KRS 83A.140(3))
   (B)   In carrying out its duty to supervise the departments of city
government and the conduct of all city officers and employees under its
jurisdiction, the Commission may require any city officer or employee to
prepare and submit to it sworn statements regarding the performance of his
official duties. (KRS 83A.140(5))
   (C)   The Commission shall by ordinance establish all appointive offices and
the duties and responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and
regulations for the public health, safety, and welfare. (KRS 83A.140(8))
   (D)   The Commission shall promulgate procedures to insure orderly
administration of the functions of city government and compliance with statute,
ordinance, or order. (KRS 83A.140(8))
   (E)   The Commission shall by ordinance provide for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate such funds in a budget which
shall provide for the orderly management of the city's resources. (KRS 83A.140
(8))
§ 32.04 EACH COMMISSIONER TO SUPERINTEND SPECIFIC CITY DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   All administrative and service functions of the city shall be
classified under departments created by ordinance which shall prescribe the
functions of the department and the duties and responsibilities of the
department head and his employees.
   (B)   The Commission shall at its first regular meeting in each year
designate the Commission member to have superintendence over each department
established under this section; however, the Commission may delegate
responsibility for overall supervision of any or all departments to a City
Administrative Officer established pursuant to KRS 83A.090.
(KRS 83A.140(6))
   (C)   The following departments are established for the separate
administration of the city and its services:
      (1)   Financial and Audit;
      (2)   Ordinances and Compliance;
      (3)   Engineering and Forestry;
      (4)   Special Events and Miscellaneous Administration.
(Ord. 90-04, passed 2-19-90)
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.20 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Commission and may vote
in all proceedings. (KRS 83A.140(4))
   (B)   In the absence of the Mayor from any meeting of the Commission for any
reason, the attending members thereof shall elect one of their number to
preside at such meeting. When so presiding, such member shall be authorized to
vote in all proceedings and shall not have an additional vote in the case of a
tie. (Ord. passed 90-03, passed 2-19-90)
Cross-reference:
   Vacancy in office of Mayor; Mayor Pro Tem, see §
31.21
§ 32.21 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. The Commission shall be held on the third Monday of
each month at 6:30 p.m., prevailing time, at the Kenneseth Israel Synagogue.
Exceptions to the time or place of regular meeting shall be published according
to the applicable statute.
   (B)   Special meetings.
      (1)   Special Meetings may be called by the Mayor or a majority of the
City Commissioners. In the call, the Mayor or City Commissioners shall
designate the purpose, time, and place of the special meeting with sufficient
notice for the attendance of Commission members and for compliance with KRS
Chapter 61.
      (2)   At a special meeting no business may be considered other than that
set forth in the designation of purpose.
   (C)   Minutes. The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person
responsible for maintaining city records as provided under §
31.36 and by the officer presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.140(7))
   (D)   Open meetings. The provisions of KRS 61.805 through 61.850 govern the
conduct of all meetings of the Commission.
(Ord. 90-03, passed 2-19-90; Am. Ord. No. 1, Series 2023, passed 3-20-23)
§ 32.22 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Commission
constitutes a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take
action.
(KRS 83A.060(6))
ORDINANCES
§ 32.35 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
shall clearly state the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1))
§ 32.36 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled “Be it ordained by the City of Seneca Gardens.”
(KRS 83A.060(2))
§ 32.37 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
words being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060(3))
§ 32.38 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance shall
be enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Commission may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.42 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(4),(7))
§ 32.39 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Commission may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or
nationally recognized standard code and codification of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is
made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5))
§ 32.40 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Commission is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Commission shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Commission has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.36(C) and
32.41, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk and the presiding officer shall sign the official record
of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.41 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted by the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.42 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.38(B), no ordinance shall be effective until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
legislative body. If the legislative body elects to publish an ordinance in
summary, the summary shall be prepared and certified by an attorney licensed to
practice law in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes fines, penalties,
forfeitures, taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9))
§ 32.43 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10))
§ 32.44 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent,
and invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11))
§ 32.45 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   The Commission may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall
be in writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be
amended only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted
shall be maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the Commission has control.
(KRS 83A.060(12), (13))
§ 32.46 PROVED BY CITY CLERK; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of ordinances by
authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in evidence by any
state court without further proof of such ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14))
§ 32.47 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, City Commissioners shall be entitled to the
same immunities and protection allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15))
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
Improvements
   
33.10   Definitions
   
33.11   Financing of improvements
   
33.12   Apportionment of cost
   
33.13   Comprehensive report required
   
33.14   Public hearing required
   
33.15   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.16   Affected owner may contest
   
33.17   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.18   Effect of additional property or change in financing
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an encumbrance
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
(KRS 91A.010(6))
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010(7))
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. No money shall
be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund, except in accordance
with a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Monies held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Commission.
   (F)   The following standards shall apply to the form and detail in which
the annual budget proposal of the city is to be prepared by the City
Commission.
      (1)   Proposal. The annual budget proposal shall detail the raising of
revenue from all sources, including grants and transfers, and the spending of
money for specified purposes and programs, functions, activities or objectives
of the city, including all principal and interest due on debt, for the budget
fiscal year. The total of resources available shall equal or exceed the total
of proposed expenditures.
      (2)   Form. The form of the annual budget proposal shall be consistent in
form to the extent practical with the accounting system of the city.
      (3)   Complete. The annual budget proposal shall provide a complete
program and financial plan for all funds for the Budget year. It shall contain:
          (a)   A budget message, as specified in division (G) below of this
section.
         (b)   A budget summary, which shall show resources available for each
fund, for example, general fund, municipal aid fund, and the like, including a
fund balance carry-forward, anticipated revenues and anticipated excess
revenues stated as a transfer from other funds. It shall also show anticipated
appropriations by category and an estimated fund balance at the end of the
fiscal year.
         (c)   A comparison of resource and appropriation categories to at
least two prior years.
      (4)   Publication. Upon the adoption of the annual budget, it shall be
made public according to applicable statutes.
(Ord. 90-05, passed 7-16-90)
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to the Commission not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal
year it covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the
governmental goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain
important features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the
reasons for stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs,
and appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   The Commission may adopt the budget ordinance making
appropriations for the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and
proper, whether greater or less than the sums recommended in the budget
proposal. The budget ordinance may take any form that the Commission finds most
efficient in enabling it to make the necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of
section 157 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated, for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   The Commission may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance's adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Commission. Such responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to the Commission of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. Such reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
   (M)    No city agency, or member, director, officer, or employee of any city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, express or implied, beyond such existing
appropriations are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond,
certificate, or warrant for the payment of money by the city in any way to any
extent, beyond the balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, each city shall,
after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund of the city to be audited
by the Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified public accountant. The audit
shall be completed by March 1 immediately following the fiscal year being
audited. The city shall forward an electronic copy of the audit report to the
Department for Local Government for information purposes by no later than April
1 immediately following the fiscal year being audited. (KRS 91A.040(1))
   (B)   If the city for any fiscal year receives and expends, from all sources
and for all purposes, less than $150,000, and has no long-term debt, whether
general obligation or revenue debt, shall not be required to audit each fund of
the city for that particular fiscal year. In addition, each city exempted in
accordance with this division (B) shall:
      (1)   Annually prepare a financial statement in accordance with KRS
424.220 and shall, not later than October 1 following the conclusion of the
fiscal year, forward one electronic copy to the Department for Local Government
for information purposes; and
      (2)   If exempted under this division for more than four consecutive
fiscal years after July 1, 2022, have prepared an attestation engagement
covering the fourth fiscal year in which the city qualified for an exemption
under this division. An attestation engagement completed pursuant to this
division shall be:
         (a)   Prepared by an independent certified public accountant or by the
Auditor of Public Accounts pursuant to a contract with the city using generally
accepted attestation standards as promulgated by the American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants and any additional procedures established by the
Department for Local Government through administrative regulations;
         (b)   Completed by no later than March 1 immediately following the
conclusion of the fiscal year in which the attestation engagement is required;
         (c)   Submitted to the Department for Local Government as one
electronic copy no later than April 1 after its completion;
         (d)   Advertised to the public within 30 days of its completion by
causing the publication of a legal display advertisement of not less than six
column inches in a newspaper qualified under KRS 424.120 stating that the
attestation has been prepared and copies have been provided to each local
newspaper of general circulation, each news service, and each local radio and
television station which has on file with the city a written request to receive
copies of financial statements under KRS 424.220. Any city advertising under
this division shall be exempt from publishing its financial statement under KRS
424.220(6)(b) for any year in which it is required to have an attestation
engagement completed; and
         (e)   Provided to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request for
review of the final report and all related work papers and documents regarding
the attestation engagement. (KRS 91A.040(4))
   (C)   If a city is required by another provision of law to audit its funds
more frequently or more stringently than is required by this section, the city
shall also comply with the provisions of that law. (KRS 91A.040(5))
   (D)   The city required by this section to conduct an annual or biennial
audit shall enter into a written contract with the selected auditor. The
contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall
include but not be limited to requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements,
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual or biennial city audit
report an examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to
the city under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification
with the annual or biennial audit report that the funds were expended for the
purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which include tests of the accounting
records and auditing procedures considered necessary in the circumstances.
Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal funds, appropriate
state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor's opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit;
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the Commission at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant's work papers upon request.
   (E)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to a
city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (F)   The city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the Commission, publish an advertisement in accordance with KRS Chapter 424
containing:
      (1)   The auditor's opinion letter;
      (2)   The "Budgetary Comparison Schedules-Major Funds," which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at city hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from city hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $.25 per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220, when a financial statement is required by KRS
424.220, are available to the public at no cost at the business address of the
officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (G)   Any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city may
bring an action in the Circuit Court to enforce the provisions of this section.
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any officer who fails to comply with
any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be subject to a
forfeiture of not less than $50 nor more than $500, in the discretion of the
court, which may be recovered only once in a civil action brought by any
resident of the city or owner of real property within the city. The costs of
all proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident or
property owner bringing the action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful
party.
   (H)   In the event of extenuating circumstances that prevent a city from
completing and submitting a required audit or financial statement in compliance
with the applicable deadlines in divisions (A) and (B) of this section, the
city may submit a written request for an extension of time to the Department
for Local Government on a form prescribed by the Department for Local
Government. The Department for Local Government shall approve the request if it
is submitted on or before the applicable deadline and, in the judgment of the
Department for Local Government, the request is warranted by extenuating
circumstances beyond the control of the city. Extensions granted under this
division (H) shall not exceed nine months from the original due date of the
audit or financial statement. If the Department for Local Government approves
an extension for a city and the city fails to complete and submit the required
audit or financial statement in compliance with that extended deadline, then
the provisions of division (I) of this section shall apply.
   (I)   If a city fails to complete an audit or financial statement and submit
it to the Department for Local Government as required in divisions (A), (B) and
(H) of this section, the Department for Local Government shall notify the
Finance and Administration Cabinet that the city has failed to comply with the
audit requirements of this section, and that any funds in the possession of any
agency, entity, or branch of state government shall be withheld from the city
until further notice. The Department for Local Government shall immediately
notify the Finance and Administration Cabinet when the city complies with the
requirements of divisions (A), (B) and (H) of this section for all prior fiscal
years it has failed to comply with the audit requirements of this section, and
the Finance and Administration Cabinet shall direct the reinstatement of
payments to the city, including any funds that were withheld due to the
noncompliance.
   (J)   Within a reasonable time after the completion of a special audit or
examination conducted pursuant to KRS 43.050, the Auditor shall bill the city
for the actual expense of the audit or examination conducted. The actual
expense shall include the hours of work performed on the audit or examination
as well as reasonable associated costs, including but not limited to travel
costs. The bill submitted to the city shall include a statement of the hourly
rate, total hours, and total costs for the entire audit or examination.
(KRS 91A.040(7) - (13))
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Commission shall designate as the city's official depositories one
or more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the Commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with 12 U.S.C. sec. 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any
obligations, including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Commission which
states the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the
payment and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization
shall be numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.10 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all such properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by the Commission of the special benefit
received by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis,
front foot basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may
include consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different
classes of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received,
and other factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs, and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to such front footage of all such properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by such facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefitted by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all such property.
(KRS 91A.210)
§ 33.11 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement, in whole or in part, through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes. (KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
§ 33.12 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization. The
Commission may assess such property in the same manner as for privately owned
property or it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230)
§ 33.13 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240)
§ 33.14 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   After preparation of the report required by §
33.13, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard. Notice of the
hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, and mailed to each
affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall
include:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   Description of area of the improvement;
   (C)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in whole
or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
   (D)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
   (E)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250)
§ 33.15 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.13 and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage the city shall
publish such ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by certified
mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to proceed with
the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to
the property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the
total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260)
§ 33.16 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.15, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his property in the improvement, or the amount of his
assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by the
special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution are final and binding with respect to such
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270)
§ 33.17 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.16, or after favorable final judgment in any such action, whichever comes
later, the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the
action, including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment
thereon and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The
first installment may be apportioned so that the other payments will coincide
with payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Commission shall
exempt any benefitted property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280)
§ 33.18 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.13 through
33.17 applies if additional property is included in the improvement or if
change is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property
may be included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof
without compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost
apportioned to any other property, or any other change may be made without such
compliance if all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.05   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.06   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.07   Public records not immediately available
   
34.08   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.09   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.10   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.11   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.12   Format of copies
   
34.13   Fees for copies
   
34.14   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
34.15   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
34.16   Public records protected from disclosure
   
34.17   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   BOOKING PHOTOGRAPH and PHOTOGRAPHIC RECORD OF INMATE. A photograph or image
of an individual generated by law enforcement for identification purposes when
the individual is booked into a detention facility as defined in KRS 520.010 or
photograph and image of an inmate taken pursuant to KRS 196.099.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE.
      (1)   The direct or indirect use of any part of a public record or
records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease of a
service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee.
      (2)   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
         (a)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
         (b)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its
news or other informational programs; or
         (c)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   CUSTODIAN. The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN. The chief administrative officer or any other officer or
employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care and
keeping of public records, regardless of whether such records are in his or her
actual personal custody and control.
   PUBLIC AGENCY.
      (1)   Every state or local government officer;
      (2)   Every state or local government department, division, bureau,
board, commission, and authority;
      (3)   Every state or local legislative board, commission, committee, and
officer;
      (4)   Every county and city governing body, council, school district
board, special district board, and municipal corporation;
      (5)   Every state or local court or judicial agency;
      (6)   Every state or local government agency, including the policy-making
board of an institution of education, created by or pursuant to state or local
statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or other legislative act;
      (7)   Any body created by state or local authority in any branch of
government;
      (8)   Any body which, within any fiscal year, derives at least 25% of its
funds expended by it in the Commonwealth of Kentucky from state or local
authority funds. However, any funds derived from a state or local authority in
compensation for goods or services that are provided by a contract obtained
through a public competitive procurement process shall not be included in the
determination of whether a body is a PUBLIC AGENCY under this definition;
      (9)   Any entity where the majority of its governing body is appointed by
a public agency as defined in division (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8),
(10), or (11) of this definition; by a member or employee of such a public
agency; or by any combination thereof;
      (10)   Any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council, or agency, except for a committee of a hospital
medical staff, established, created, and controlled by a public agency as
defined in division (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), or (11) of
this definition; and
      (11)   Any interagency body of two or more public agencies where each
public agency is defined in division (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8),
(9), or (10) of this definition;
      PUBLIC RECORD. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of
or retained by a public agency. PUBLIC RECORD shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for a body referred to in division (8) of the
definition of “public agency above that are not related to functions,
activities, programs, or operations funded by state or local authority;
   RESIDENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH.
      (1)   An individual residing in the Commonwealth;
      (2)   A domestic business entity with a location in the Commonwealth;
      (3)   A foreign business entity registered with the Secretary of State;
      (4)   An individual that is employed and works at a location or locations
within the Commonwealth;
      (5)   An individual or business entity that owns real property with the
Commonwealth;
      (6)   Any individual or business entity that has been authorized to act
on behalf of an individual or business entity defined in divisions (1) to (5)
of this definition; or
      (7)   Any news-gathering organization as defined in KRS 189.635(8)(b)1.a.
to e.;
   SOFTWARE.
      (1)   The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency's computer system.
      (2)   SOFTWARE consists of the operating system, application programs,
procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators and utility programs,
but does not include that material which is prohibited from disclosure or
copying by a license agreement between a public agency and an outside entity
which supplied the material to the agency;
(KRS 61.870)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.05 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of this city
shall make a request for inspection at the office of the City Clerk during
regular office hours, except during legal holidays. The official custodian, or
the custodian acting under the authority of the official custodian, may require
a request to inspect public records to be in writing, signed by the applicant
and with the applicant's name printed legibly on the application. A written
request to inspect public records may be presented by hand delivery, mail or
via facsimile, if one is available.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person's request is in compliance
with this chapter and the open records law, and the requested public records
are immediately available, the custodian shall deliver the records for
inspection. A person may inspect public records at the designated office of the
city during the regular office hours, or in appropriate cases, by receiving
copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the city,
suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk or
in another office of the city as determined by the official custodian or
custodian for the inspection. No person shall remove original copies of public
records from the offices of the city without the written permission of the
official custodian of the record. When public records are inspected at the city
offices, the person inspecting the records shall have the right to make
abstracts and memoranda of the public records and to obtain copies of all
written public records. When copies are requested, the custodian may require
advance payment of the prescribed fee.
   (D)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee.
§ 34.06 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk does not have custody or control of the public record
requested, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant and shall furnish the name
and location of the official custodian of the agency's public records.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 34.07 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection of the public records,
not to exceed five days from receipt of the application, unless a detailed
explanation of the cause is given for further delay and the place, time, and
earliest date on which the public record will be available for inspection.
(KRS 61.872(5))
§ 34.08 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public records
or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are intended
to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the official
custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or mail copies
thereof. However, refusal under this section shall be sustained by clear and
convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
§ 34.09 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and
legal holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
five-day period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in
part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under his authority and shall constitute final
agency action.
(KRS 61.880)
§ 34.10 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
§ 34.11 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or in
which he is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate identification,
subject to the provisions of §
34.12 of these rules and regulations.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 34.12 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
34.16. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where appropriate.
If the applicant desires copies of public records other than written records,
the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or permit the
applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall ensure that
such duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies
currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not required to
convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than 8½ inches x 11 inches in at least one color on white paper, or for
electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard Code for
Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and this format
conforms to the requestor's requirements, the public record may be provided in
this alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(1) - (3))
§ 34.13 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   The public agency may prescribe a reasonable fee for making copies of
nonexempt public records requested for use for noncommercial purposes which
shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of the
media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but not
including the cost of staff required. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request
of an individual or a group, the public agency may at its discretion provide
the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs
incurred.
   (B)   (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) of this section may be
based on one or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing, and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records;
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase, or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(3),(4))
Cross-reference:
   Fees for online access to public records, see §
34.15
§ 34.14 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
34.13;
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.15 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license, or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
34.13.
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 34.16 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of KRS
61.870 to 61.884 and shall be subject to inspection only upon order of a court
of competent jurisdiction, except that no court shall authorize the inspection
by any party of any materials pertaining to civil litigation beyond that which
is provided by the Rules of Civil Procedure governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy;
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by another statute;
      (3)   (a)   Upon and after July 15, 1992, records confidentially
disclosed to an agency or required by an agency to be disclosed to it,
generally recognized as confidential or proprietary, which if openly disclosed
would permit an unfair commercial advantage to competitors of the entity that
disclosed the records;
         (b)   Upon and after July 15, 1992, records confidentially disclosed
to an agency or required by an agency to be disclosed to it, generally
recognized as confidential or proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS
Chapter 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae, or processes,
which are used for the making, preparing, compounding, treating, or processing
of articles or materials which are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (b) above
shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is directed
by another statute;
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business'
or industry's interest in locating in, relocating within or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
application to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(3) above;
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency's internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods;
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals, engineering or feasibility
estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative to
acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision;
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again;
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of KRS 61.870 to 61.884, public records exempted
under this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action; however, records or information compiled
and maintained by county attorneys or Commonwealth's attorneys pertaining to
criminal investigations or criminal litigation shall be exempted from the
provisions of KRS 61.870 to 61.884 and shall remain exempted after enforcement
action, including litigation, is completed or a decision is made to take no
action. The exemptions provided by this division (A)(8) shall not be used by
the custodian of the records to delay or impede the exercise of rights granted
by KRS 61.870 to 61.884;
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, correspondence with private individuals,
other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of final action of a
public agency;
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations, and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended;
      (11)   All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation or state law;
      (12)   Public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of
Revenue in tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure
under KRS 131.190;
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Counterterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division (A)(13)(a) through the disclosure of the location,
configuration, or security of critical systems, including public utility
critical systems. These critical systems shall include but not be limited to
information technology, communication, electrical, fire suppression,
ventilation, water, wastewater, sewage, and gas systems;
            7.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division (A)(13)(a): detailed drawings,
schematics, maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and
operating, utility, or security systems of any building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division (A)(13)(a) and that describe the exact physical
location of hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division (A)(13), TERRORIST ACT means a criminal
act intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (A)(13)(a)6. above; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this paragraph, that public agency
shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS
61.880(1), to the executive director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General.
         (d)   Nothing in this division (A)(13) shall affect the obligations of
a public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs.
         (e)   The exemption established in this division (A)(13) shall not
apply when a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public
record identified in this division (A)(13) under the Open Records Law;
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law;
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapter 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited; and
      (16)   Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Chapter 31;
      (17)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function;
      (18)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of:
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party;
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for a person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos;
      (19)   Records confidentially maintained by a law enforcement agency in
accordance with a wellness program, including an early intervention system, as
described in state law.
   (B)   No exemption in this section shall be construed to prohibit disclosure
of statistical information not descriptive of any readily identifiable person.
   (C)   No exemption in this section shall be construed to deny, abridge, or
impede the right of a public agency employee, including university employees,
an applicant for employment, or an eligible on a register to inspect and to
copy any record including preliminary and other supporting documentation that
relates to him or her. The records shall include, but not be limited to, work
plans, job performance, demotions, evaluations, promotions, compensation,
classification, reallocation, transfers, layoffs, disciplinary actions,
examination scores, and preliminary and other supporting documentation. A
public agency employee, including university employees, applicant, or eligible
shall not have the right to inspect or to copy any examination or any documents
relating to ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by an agency.
   (D)   If any public record contains material which is not excepted under
this section, the public agency shall separate the excepted and make the
nonexcepted material available for examination.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (F)   When material is made available pursuant to a request under division
(A)(18) of this section, the public agency shall not be required to make a copy
of the recording except as provided in KRS 61.169. and the requesting parties
shall not be limited in the number of times they may view the material.
(KRS 61.878)
§ 34.17 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the open
records law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
Section
   
35.01   County assessment adopted
   
35.02   Due date; payment
   
35.03   Delinquency
   
35.04   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles
   
35.05   Disposition of funds
§ 35.01 COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted in KRS 132.285, the city hereby
adopts the Jefferson County assessment for all real and personal property
situated within the city as the basis of all ad valorem tax levies ordered or
approved by the City Commission.
   (B)   The assessment as finally determined for county tax purposes shall
serve as the basis for all city levies for the fiscal year commencing after the
assessment date.
(Ord. 90-05, passed 12-21-92; Am. Ord. 93-05, passed 12-20-93; Am. Ord. 94-04,
passed 11-21-94; Am. Ord. 95-05, passed 11-20-95; Am. Ord. 96-03, passed 11-18-
96; Am. Ord. 97-03, passed 12-15- 97; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-16-98; Am. Ord.
99-03, passed 12-28-99; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 12- 18-00; Am. Ord. 2005-02,
passed 12-12-05 )
§ 35.02 DUE DATE; PAYMENT.
   (A)   All taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall become due
on May 1.
   (B)   Any taxpayer who pays his city taxes before March 1 after they become
due shall be entitled to a 2% discount thereon, and the Clerk shall allow the
discount and give a receipt in full to the taxpayer.
(Ord. 92-05, passed 12-21-92)
§ 35.03 DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   All city taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall
become delinquent after May 1.
   (B)   Any taxes not paid by the date when they become delinquent shall be
subject to a penalty of 10% on the taxes due and unpaid. There shall also be
interest at the rate of 1½% per month charged on all bills owed after May 1.
The delinquent taxpayer shall also pay all costs and expenses incidental to any
action taken by the city for collection of the delinquent tax bill.
   (C)   Delinquent taxes shall be collectable under the provisions of the
state law relating to the collection of delinquent taxes by cities of the sixth
class.
(Ord. 92-05, passed 12-21-92)
§ 35.04 AD VALOREM TAXES ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   All ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall be collected by the
Jefferson County Clerk in accordance with KRS 134.800.
   (B)   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall become due and delinquent as
set forth in KRS 134.810 and any such taxes not paid by the date when they
become delinquent shall be subject to the penalty and interest specified in KRS
134.810.
§ 35.05 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All monies collected from the taxes levied in this chapter shall be paid
into the General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Commission.
CHAPTER 36: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Title
   
36.02   Purpose and authority
   
36.03   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
36.15   Conflicts of interest in general
   
36.16   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
36.17   Receipt of gifts
   
36.18   Representation of interests before city government
   
36.19   Misuse of confidential information
   
36.20   Honorarium
Financial Disclosure
   
36.35   Who must file
   
36.36   Form of the statement of financial interest
Nepotism
   
36.50   Nepotism prohibited
Enforcement
   
36.60   Board of Ethics
   
36.61   Appeals
   
36.62   Powers of the Commission
   
36.63   Compensation
   
36.64   Minutes
   
36.65   Notice of hearings
   
36.66   Hearing procedure
   
36.67   Limitation of action
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Seneca Gardens
Code of Ethics.”
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-19-94)
§ 36.02 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of this city shall be clearly established, uniform in their
application, and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees of the
city with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest
which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS 65.003, as enacted by the 1994 Kentucky General Assembly.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.003.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-19-94)
§ 36.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF ETHICS. The City of Seneca Gardens Board of Ethics which is created
and vested by this chapter with the responsibility of enforcing the
requirements of the city's Code of Ethics.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, self-employed individual, holding company,
joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service corporation, or
any legal entity through which business is conducted for profit.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city office.
An individual is a candidate when the individual files a notification and
declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration
of intent to be a write-in candidate with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State.
   CITY. The City of Seneca Gardens, Kentucky.
   CITY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, non-stock corporation, or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by this city.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city. The term EMPLOYEE
shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of their employees.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent or grandchild.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in the
officer's or employee's household, or a person claimed by the officer or
employee, or the officer's or employee's spouse, as a dependent for tax
purposes.
   OFFICER. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor.
      (2)   A legislative body member.
      (3)   The City Clerk.
      (4)   The City Manager.
      (5)   The City Administrator.
      (6)   Any person who occupies a non-elected office created under KRS
83A.080.
      (7)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to a governing body of the agency by the city.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-19-94)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 36.15 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN GENERAL.
   Every officer and employee of the city and every city agency shall comply
with the following standards of conduct:
   (A)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of an officer
or employee, shall have an interest in a business or engage in any business,
transaction, or activity, which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of the officer's or employee's public duties.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or
advantages for himself or herself or others.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or refrain from taking
any discretionary action, or agree to take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action, or induce or attempt to induce any other officer or
employee to take or refrain from taking any discretionary action, on any matter
before the city in order to obtain a financial benefit for any of the
following:
      (1)   The officer or employee.
      (2)   A family member.
      (3)   An outside employer.
      (4)   Any business in which the officer or employee, or any family member
has a financial interest.
      (5)   Any business with which the officer or employee, or any family
member is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or
professional relationship.
   (D)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
in this section if, by reason of the officer's or employee's participation,
vote, decision, action or inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the officer
or employee, a family member, an outside employer, or a business as defined in
divisions (C)(4) and (5) of this section, as a member of any business,
occupation, profession, or other group, to any greater extent than a gain could
reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member of the business,
occupation, profession, or other group.
   (E)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected
by his or her participation, vote, decision or other action taken within the
scope of his other public duties shall disclose the precise nature and value of
the interest, in writing, to the City Commission or city agency served by the
officer or employee, and the disclosure shall be entered on the official record
of the proceedings of the Commission. The officer or employee shall refrain
from taking any action with respect to the matter that is the subject of the
disclosure.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-19-94)
§ 36.16 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly
or through others undertake, execute, hold, or enjoy, in whole or in part, any
contract made, entered into, awarded, or granted by the city or a city agency,
except as follows:
      (1)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply to
contracts entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for city
office; before an appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency
office; or before an employee was hired by the city or a city agency. However,
if any contract entered into by a city or city agency officer or employee
before he or she became a candidate, was appointed to office, was hired as an
employee, is renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes the
appointed office, or is hired as an employee, the prohibition in division (A)
of this section shall apply to the renewal of the contract.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply if
the contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the
officer or employee is authorized to participate in establishing the contract
specifications, awarding the contract, or managing contract performance after
the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any of the authorities
set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or employee shall have no
interest in the contract, unless the requirements set forth in division (3)
below are satisfied:
      (3)   The prohibition in division (A) of this sentence shall not apply in
any case where the following requirements are satisfied:
         (a)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer's or employee's interest in the contract are publicly disclosed
at a meeting of the City Commission or city agency.
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the City
Commission or city agency before the contract is executed.
         (c)   A finding is made by the City Commission or city agency that the
contract with the officer or employee is in the best interests of the public
and the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor
and, upon conviction, the court may void any contract entered into in violation
of this section. Additionally, a violation of this section shall be grounds for
removal from office or employment with the city in accordance with any
applicable provisions of state law and ordinances, rules or regulations of the
city.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-19-94)
§ 36.17 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly, or
indirectly through any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift
having a fair market value of more than $100, whether in the form of money,
service, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing or promise, or any
other form, under circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred that
the gift was intended to influence, or could reasonably be expected to
influence the officer or employee in the performance of his or her public
duties.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-19-94)
§ 36.18 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall represent
any person or business, other than the city, in connection with any cause,
proceeding, application or other matter pending before the city or any city
agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an employee from representing
another employee or employees where the representation is within the context of
official labor union or similar representational responsibilities.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matters concerning his or her own interests.
   (D)   No elected officer shall prohibit by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward
or other thing of value is promised to, given to, or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-19-94)
§ 36.19 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall intentionally
use or disclose information acquired in the course of his or her official
duties, if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further his or
her personal financial interest or that of another person or business.
Information shall be deemed confidential, if it is not subject to disclosure
pursuant to the Kentucky Open Records Act (KRS 61.872 to 61.884), at the time
of its use or disclosure.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-19-94)
§ 36.20 HONORARIUM.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall be prohibited
from giving or receiving an award publicly presented in recognition of public
service, commercially reasonable loans made in the ordinary course of the
lender's business, or reasonable hosting, including travel and expenses,
entertainment, meals or refreshments furnished in connection with public
events, appearances, ceremonies or fact finding trips related to official city
government business.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-19-94)
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 36.35 WHO MUST FILE.
   The following classes of officers and employees of the city and city
agencies shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the Board
of Ethics:
   (A)   Elected city officials.
   (B)   Candidates for elected city office.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-19-94)
§ 36.36 FORM OF STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   The financial disclosure statement should include the following information:
   (A)   Name of filer.
   (B)   Current business address, business telephone number and home address
of filer.
   (C)   Title of filer's public office sought.
   (D)   Occupation of filer and spouse.
   (E)   Positions held by the filer and any member of the filer's immediate
family and any business organization or non-profit entity from which the filer
or any member of the filer's immediate family received compensation in excess
of $5,000 during the preceding calendar year, and the name, address, and
telephone number of the business organization or non-profit entity.
   (F)   Name, address and telephone number of each source of income from
within the Commonwealth of Kentucky of both the filer and spouse which exceeded
$5,000 during the preceding calendar year.
   (G)   Name address and telephone number of each business organization
located within the Commonwealth in which the filer or any member of the filer's
immediate family had an interest of $50,000 at fair market value or 5%
ownership interest or more during the preceding calendar year; (commercial,
residential, agricultural, of all real property with the Commonwealth, other
than the filer's primary residence, in which the filer remembers for the
filer's immediate family had an interest of $50,000 or more during the
preceding calendar year).
   (H)   The financial disclosure statement shall be on a form provided by the
Board of Ethics. The financial disclosure statement shall be filed annually by
officers no later than February 1 of each calendar year. Candidates shall be
required to file the statement no later than 21 days after the filing date or
that date of nomination. Newly appointed officers should be required to file
their initial statement no later than 21 days after the date of appointment.
   (I)   The financial disclosure statement should be filed with the Board of
Ethics by all filers who are subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission.
Failure to do so will result in a fine of $500.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-19-94)
NEPOTISM
§ 36.50 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The spouse, child, parent or sibling of a public officer should not be
employed or appointed to a position in city government.
   (B)   The prohibitions in this section do not apply to any relationship or
situation that would violate the prohibition, which existed prior to January 1,
1995.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-19-94)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 36.60 BOARD OF ETHICS.
   (A)   A City of Seneca Gardens Ethics Commission is hereby created which
shall have the powers to enforce all provisions of the Code of Ethics adopted
in this chapter.
   (B)   The Commission shall be composed of three members to be appointed by
the City Commission from a list submitted by the City Clerk. The appointment
shall be for a term of two years and each may be appointed to one additional
consecutive term.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-19-94)
§ 36.61 APPEALS.
   Decisions of the City Ethics Commission regarding violations may be appealed
to the Circuit Court.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-19-94)
§ 36.62 POWERS OF THE COMMISSION.
   The City Ethics Commission shall have the following powers:
   (A)   To initiate, receive, hear, and review complaints and hold hearings
regarding possible violations of the city ethics code;
   (B)   To issue subpoenas for the production of documents and the attendance
of witnesses;
   (C)   To forward to appropriate agencies of state and local government
information concerning violations which may be used in criminal or other
proceedings;
   (D)   To render advisory opinions to city officers and employees regarding
whether a given set of facts and circumstances constitutes a violation of any
provision of this chapter;
   (E)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all officers
and employees and to impose penalties for violations as authorized; and
   (F)   To adopt rules and regulations necessary to implement the local ethics
code.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-19-94)
§ 36.63 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the City Ethics Commission shall serve without compensation
unless otherwise approved by the legislative body, but shall be reimbursed for
all necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their
duties.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-19-94)
§ 36.64 MINUTES.
   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board of Ethics on the vote
of each member on any issue decided by the Board and shall be recorded in the
minutes.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-19-94)
§ 36.65 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   If the Board of Ethics determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, the Board shall issue an order setting
the matter for a hearing within 30 days of the date the order is issued, unless
the alleged violator petitions for and the Board consents to a later date. The
order setting the matter for a hearing, along with a copy of any pertinent
regulations of the Board relating to the hearing, shall be sent to the alleged
violator within 24 hours of the time the order setting a hearing is issued.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-19-94)
§ 36.66 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure and the Kentucky Rules of
Evidence shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Board of Ethics; however,
the hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and accordance
with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Board so as to afford
all parties the full range of due process rights required by the nature of the
proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator, or his
or her representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Board in connection with the
matter to be heard. The Board shall inform the alleged violator, or his or her
representative, of any exculpatory evidence in its possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a Board hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to call
and examine witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross-examine witnesses, to
submit evidence, and to be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have the
right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Board, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (E)   All hearings of the Board of Ethics shall be public, unless the
members vote to go into executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810.
   (F)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Board shall, as soon as
practicable, begin deliberations in executive session for the purpose of
reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether a violation
of this chapter has been proven. Within 30 days after completion of the
hearing, the Board shall issue a written report of its findings and
conclusions.
   (G)   If the Board concludes in its report that no violation of this chapter
has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this determination of
the officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint and to the party
who filed the complaint.
   (H)   If the Board concludes in its report that in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and convincing proof of the
violation of this chapter, the Board may:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation.
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the Mayor and the City Commission of the
city which the violator serves.
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the Mayor and the City Commission that the
violator be sanctioned as recommended by the Board, which may include a
recommendation for discipline or dismissal, or removal from office.
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $1,000.
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this chapter or state laws
to the County Attorney or Commonwealth's Attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-19-94)
§ 36.67 LIMITATION OF ACTION.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one year after
the violation is discovered.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-19-94)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE; RECYCLABLE MATERIALS
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND REFUSE; RECYCLABLE MATERIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Use of sanitary garbage cans; requirements
Recyclable Materials
   
50.10   Collection by authorized agents
   
50.11   Recyclable materials; property of city
   
50.12   Unauthorized removal of recyclable materials or containers
   
50.13   Violation
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 USE OF SANITARY GARBAGE CANS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every resident of the city must provide a sanitary, metal or plastic
container for all garbage.
   (B)   The container must be:
      (1)   Supplied with a closely fitting top;
      (2)   Kept covered at all times; and
      (3)   Kept at the rear of the residence of the owner, or in the event it
is kept in another place, it must be screened as to be out of sight from anyone
using the streets of the city.
(Ord. passed 12-5-41)
RECYCLABLE MATERIALS
§ 50.10 COLLECTION BY AUTHORIZED AGENTS.
   Recyclable materials placed at a designated site, or on the edge of a
publicly dedicated right-of-way in a specifically designated container, for the
purpose of collecting newsprint, glass, aluminum containers, white office
paper, certain plastic containers, and other materials as may be designated by
the City Commission as recyclable hereafter will be collected by the authorized
agents of the city.
(Ord. 90-06, passed 7-16-90)
§ 50.11 RECYCLABLE MATERIALS; PROPERTY OF CITY.
   Placing recyclable materials in the designated containers, in the specified
location, shall be deemed to vest title to the materials in the city. Non-
recyclable materials or any material placed in the container not provided for
recycling, will not become the property of the city.
(Ord. 90-06, passed 7-16-90)
§ 50.12 UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS OR CONTAINERS.
   No person shall remove any recyclable materials from the designated
containers, or remove the container itself, without the consent of the city.
(Ord. 90-06, passed 7-16-90) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.13 VIOLATION.
   Any person, corporation, or firm violating any provision of this subchapter,
will be prosecuted to the full extent of the law as provided in §
50.99. The Mayor is empowered, on behalf of the city to institute civil and/or
criminal proceedings as may be appropriate under the laws of this Commonwealth.
Each instance of unauthorized removal of recyclable materials shall be deemed
and construed a separate offense.
(Ord. 90-06, passed 7-16-90) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, corporation, or firm violating any provision of this chapter for
which no penalty is otherwise provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be fined up to $500 or imprisoned up to 30 days or both.
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
    Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Signal legends
   
70.16   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.17   Obedience to signals
   
70.18   Interference with signals
   
70.19   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.20   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.21   Temporary disregard of devices by police officer
 
   
70.99   General penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Police Department, vehicles
of the Commonwealth Attorney's office when on official business, and ambulances
on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing such boulevard.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. That portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and such other portions of the roadway
between two intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and
marked by stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION. That part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle whether or not
one such street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the City
Commission.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street or portion thereof so designated by the City
Commission and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and foot
paths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to proceed
in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. That portion of any street, improved, designated, or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses, and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn on any street except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate
any of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in
this traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or any other signal.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the City Commission or any authorized city official
shall, at his discretion, have authority to impose such traffic regulations as
he may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two weeks. If these
temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than two weeks, the
City Clerk shall be notified in writing of the extended order.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “Go,” “Caution,” or “Stop,” or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows:
   (A)   Green alone or “Go”: Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time
such signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or
“Go” signal: Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “Stop”: Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such
other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or “Go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone:  Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed
until it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by such
signal.
   (F)   “Yield Right-of-Way”: Vehicular traffic facing the “Yield Right-of-
Way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within such primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a “Yield Right-of-Way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 miles per hour, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles
entering an expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights: When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above such lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at such place prohibits
such turn.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.16 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.17 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for such
barrier or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   Such sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority
as the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the
movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal. No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal bearing any commercial
advertising. Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily
from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been
approved by the city.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
§ 70.21 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may at his discretion disregard traffic-
control lights or signals or established regulations in order to facilitate the
movement of traffic.
§ 70.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
Accidents
   
71.15   Duty of operator
   
71.16   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.25   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.26   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.27   Smoke emission or other nuisance
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he shall be deemed to have violated this
division rather than division (B) above.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8)) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the City Commission or any authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension. On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. The operator
of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley from the
roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
Penalty, see §
71.99
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.15 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render such assistance as may be needed.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.16 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner, or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
Penalty, see §
71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.25 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   No person shall willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in such a
manner as to injure the highway.
(KRS 189.290) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.26 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
such vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-
way, immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and stop and remain
in such position until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise
directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall keep such position until
the emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer
or firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he is on official business, shall
follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the provisions
of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he drive into, park the
vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the block where the vehicle has
stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he is directed
otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train, or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway, or track for use at any fire or fire alarm unless the fire
department official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
(KRS 189.930) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.27 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke, or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) Penalty, see §
71.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.12   Parking with handicapped permits
Impounding
   
72.20   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
72.21   Reserved
   
72.22   Sale of vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.35   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.36   Termination of emergency
   
72.37   Snow emergency routes
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines, and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS
65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that such
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. Such backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway of moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the center line of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet
of the center line of any street. Such diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which such vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park such
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stop or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic control device, in the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities;
      (3)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (4)   Within an intersection or on a crosswalk;
      (5)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking;
      (6)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign,
or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (7)   On any controlled access highway;
      (8)   Within a highway tunnel;
      (9)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant; or
      (10)   In an area between the roadways of a divided highway.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area.
(KRS 189.450(5), (6)) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of vehicles in
specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to handicapped parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice
thereof. However, in lieu of erecting such signs or in conjunction therewith,
the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is
prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No such regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the
signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the
time of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions
which by their very nature would not require such signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle on any
of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer.
Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or streets
of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed abandoned, and
shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city pertaining to
abandoned motor vehicles.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Removal of abandoned vehicles, see §
72.21 et seq.
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The City Commission or any authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or restrict
the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a part of
the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs to that
effect, and to prohibit and prevent such parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of such signs or directions.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§
71.40 et seq.
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another's property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee, or person in charge of such property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise trespass
in violation of division (A) of this section, the owner, lessee, or person in
charge of the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle
removed in accordance with the provisions of §§
72.20 through
72.22.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the owner's
expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B).
Penalty, see §
72.99 
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway. However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any such park or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on such roadway.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING WITH HANDICAPPED PERMITS.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for handicapped persons, when operated by a
handicapped person or when transporting a handicapped person, may be parked in
a designated handicapped parking place, or when parked in a metered parking
space may be parked for two hours for no fee, or when parked where any parking
limit is imposed may be parked for two hours in excess of the parking limit.
The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone for that period of time
necessary to permit entrance or exit of the handicapped person to or from the
parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a “no stopping” or “no
parking” zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon, or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
Penalty, see §
72.99
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.20 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All police officers are empowered to authorize the impoundment of a
vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinances after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department. Should a vehicle be moved without the consent
and approval of the Police Department a warrant shall be issued immediately for
the violator's arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees, and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle's release.
§ 72.21 RESERVED.
§ 72.22 SALE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor
vehicles, who has complied with the notification requirements of this
subchapter, shall have a lien on the motor vehicle and its contents, except as
set forth in KRS 376.275(2), for the applicable and reasonable charges assessed
in accordance with this subchapter, as long as it remains in his or her
possession.
   (B)   If after a period of 45 days, the applicable and reasonable charges
assessed in accordance with this subchapter have not been paid, the motor
vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in KRS 376.275(2), may be sold to
pay the charges after the owner and any lienholder have been notified by
certified mail at the addresses specified in state law, ten days prior to the
time and place of the sale. If the proceeds of the sale of any vehicle pursuant
to this section are insufficient to satisfy accrued charges, the sale and
collection of proceeds shall not constitute a waiver or release of
responsibility for payment of unpaid charges by the owner or responsible
casualty insurer of the vehicle. A lien on a vehicle under this division (C)
shall be subject to prior recorded liens, unless released by any existing
lienholder pursuant to this subchapter.
   (C)   A lien holder having a prior recorded lien listed on the title issued
by the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be notified by certified mail within the
first ten days of impoundment in accordance with state law. Such notification,
in addition to the requirements of state law, shall include the make, model,
license number, vehicle identification number, owner's name and last known
address, and tentative date of sale for the vehicle, and state that the towing
company or storage facility seeks to obtain a new title free and clear of any
liens, excluding tax liens. If the above-referenced certified letter is not
sent within the ten days by the towing and storage company, then only ten days
of storage may be charged. The lien holder has the right to take possession of
the motor vehicle after showing proof of lien still enforced, and paying the
reasonable or agreed towing and storage charges on the motor vehicle. If a
lienholder does not exercise the right to take possession of the motor vehicle
under this division within 45 days of notification, and all lienholders agree
in writing, the tow company or storage facility may obtain a new title under
state law free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens. Nothing in this
section shall allow the transfer of a vehicle subject to a lien, except as
provided in KRS 186A.190.
   (D)   If there are no lienholders required to be notified, and the owner
does not exercise the right to take possession of the motor vehicle under this
section within 45 days of notification required under state law, the tow
company or storage facility may obtain a new title under state law free and
clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
(KRS 376.275(1))
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.35 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the City Commission or any authorized city official finds that
falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain will create a condition which makes it
necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever it is found on the basis of a firm forecast of snow,
sleet, or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may create a
condition making it necessary that such parking be prohibited, the Commission
or city official is authorized to announce such prohibition, to become
effective at a time specified by it. After the effective time of such
prohibition no person shall park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain
parked on a snow emergency route. However, if a fall of snow, sleet, or
freezing rain occurs after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the City
Commission or any authorized city official has not announced prior to 11:00
p.m. that parking on snow emergency routes is to be prohibited after a
specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow emergency route may remain so parked
until 7:00 a.m. following such fall. The prohibition of parking announced by
the City Commission or any authorized city official under the authority of this
section shall remain in effect until the Commission or city official announces
the termination of the snow emergency, in part or in whole, after which the
prohibition of parking authorized by this section shall no longer be in effect.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.36 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the City Commission or any authorized city official shall find that
some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency prohibition
no longer exist, the Commission or city official is authorized to declare the
termination of the emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on
announcement. If such announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:
00 p.m., it shall be repeated between those hours.
§ 72.37 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the City
Commission or any authorized city official. On such street or highway
designated as a snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this
effect.
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city shall
be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be fined in an amount not
less than $20 nor more than $100 for each offense.
(KRS 189.990(1))
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02(C)
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public
park, playground, play lot, or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking
area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on such bicycle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as “play streets”
by the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful
for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of any
kind, to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates, or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of
any vehicle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to have
committed a violation and shall be fined not more than $50 for each offense.
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Stop Intersections
SCHEDULE I. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   Stop signs shall be erected at the following intersections in appropriate
places so as to be clearly discernible. At such stop signs all vehicular
traffic shall come to a complete stop before proceeding into the intersection.
Through Street Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Through Street  Location                            Ord. No. Date Passed
Broadmeade Road Intersection with Taylorsville Road —      6-29-53
Broadmeade Road Intersection with Trevilian Way     —      6-26-72
Broadmeade Road Intersection with Woodbourne Avenue —      6-29-53
Meadow Road     Intersection with Taylorsville Road —      6-29-53
Meadow Road     Intersection with Trevilian Way     —      6-26-72
Meadow Road     Intersection with Woodbourne Avenue —      6-29-53
Valetta Road    Intersection with Taylorsville Road —      6-29-53
Valetta Road    Intersection with Woodbourne Avenue —      6-29-53
 
Penalty, see §
71.99
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking Prohibited
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle upon the
following streets at any time. Appropriate signs showing and indicating the
restricted parking areas will be erected at proper intervals along these
streets and roads.
Street Side Ord. No. Date Passed
Street          Side  Ord. No. Date Passed
Broadmeade Road East  —      6-29-53
Dell Road       North —      6-29-53
Meadow Road     East  —      6-29-53
Seneca Drive    North —      6-29-53
Seneca Valley   East  —      6-29-53
Trevilian Way   North —      6-29-53
Valetta Drive   East  —      6-29-53
Wood Creek Road North —      6-29-53
 
Penalty, see §
72.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
    Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   RESERVED
      
94.   LITTERING
      
95.   TREES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.04   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.05   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.06   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
Dogs
   
90.15   Definition
   
90.16   License required
   
90.17   Registration and issuance of license
   
90.18   License tag to be attached to dog
   
90.19   Dogs running at large
   
90.20   Noise disturbance
   
90.21   Impoundment
   
90.22   Reclaiming impounded dog
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To forsake entirely, or to neglect or refuse to provide or perform
the legal obligations for care and support of an animal by its owner, or his
agent. Abandonment shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and claims
by the owner to the animal. (KRS 257.100(4))
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his agent either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his care, or permits it to remain on
or about the premises owned or occupied by him.
§ 90.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or permit it to go on any private yard, lot, or enclosure without the
consent of the owner of the yard, lot, or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by such animal upon the premises
of another.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when
except as authorized by law he intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in KRS 525.125 in
causing it to fight for pleasure or profit (including, but not limited to being
a spectator or vendor at an event where a four legged animal is caused to fight
for pleasure or profit), mutilation, beating, torturing any animal other than a
dog or cat, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food, drink, space, or
health care, or by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This division (A)(3) shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including but not
limited to horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows, or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with the United States Department of
Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject to other federal laws
governing animal research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
   (C)   Activities of animals engaged in hunting, field trials, dog training
other than training a dog to fight for pleasure or profit, and other activities
authorized either by a hunting license or by the Department of Fish and
Wildlife shall not constitute a violation of this section.
(KRS 525.130(1) - (3)) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 90.04 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits, under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, animal control officer, or any person authorized by
the Board may destroy or kill or cause to be destroyed or killed, any animal
found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or appearing to be
injured, diseased, or suffering past recovery for any useful purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian, or of two reputable citizens called by him to
view the animal in his or her presence, or shall obtain consent to the
destruction from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding, or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or
his or her agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by
certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or his or her
agent at his or her last known address, shall be deemed to be abandoned and may
be turned over to the nearest humane society or animal shelter or disposed of
as the custodian may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed veterinarian shall relieve the licensed veterinarian and
any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
   (D)   Abandonment shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and
claims by the owner to the animal.
(KRS 257.100(1) - (4))
DOGS
§ 90.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
§ 90.16 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep a dog or dogs in the city
without first obtaining a license for each dog. This section and §
90.17 shall not apply to dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within
the city for a period less than 30 days.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 REGISTRATION AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All dogs kept in the city shall be registered as to sex, breed, name
and address of the owner, and name of the dog. At the time of the registration
the owner shall obtain a license tag for the dog and shall pay a fee as
established by the City Commission for each dog.
   (B)   The license tag shall be valid for one year from the date of issue. A
new tag shall be obtained each year by every owner and a new fee paid.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 LICENSE TAG TO BE ATTACHED TO DOG.
   The license tag shall be fastened to the collar of the dog and shall be worn
continuously, and the failure to have the tag so attached shall subject the
owner or keeper thereof to the penalties provided herein.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog, either licensed or
unlicensed, regardless of the age of the dog, to allow the dog to be at large
and unattended or to run in any street, park, lawn, garden, schoolyard,
playground, or on any other public or private property.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.20 NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the city which, by frequent
and habitual barking, howling, or yelping, creates unreasonably loud and
disturbing noises of such a character, intensity, and duration as to disturb
the peace, quiet, and good order of one or more of the inhabitants of two or
more separate residences. Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to
remain, be lodged, or fed within any dwelling, yard, or enclosure which he
occupies or owns shall be considered as harboring the dog.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every police officer, peace officer, or other authorized official shall have
the authority to apprehend any dog running at large in violation of this
chapter and any unlicensed dog in the city, and to impound such dog or have
such dog impounded in the appropriate place.
§ 90.22 RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED DOG.
   The owner of any dog so impounded may reclaim the dog upon the payment of
all appropriate fees and after fulfilling any and all other requirements.
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day
the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   (1)   Cruelty to animals in the second degree is a Class A
misdemeanor.
      (2)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to an offense under §
90.03 arising from the person's treatment of an equine, the court may impose
one or both of the following penalties against the person, in addition to fines
and imprisonment:
         (a)   An order that the person pay restitution for damage to the
property of others and for costs incurred by others, including reasonable
costs, as determined by agreement or by the court after a hearing, incurred in
feeding, sheltering, veterinary treatment, and incidental care of any equine
that was the subject of the offense resulting in conviction; or
         (b)   An order terminating or imposing conditions on the person's
right to possession, title, custody, or care of any equine that was the subject
of the offense resulting in conviction. If a person's ownership interest in an
equine is terminated by a judicial order under division (B)(2)(b), the court
may order the sale, conveyance, or other disposition of the equine that was the
subject of the offense resulting in conviction. (KRS. 525.130(4), (5))
   (C)   Any person who violates §
90.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500. (KRS 436.600)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Reserved
Construction
   
91.10   Reserved
   
91.11   Reserved
   
91.12   Restoration of pavement
   
91.13   Barriers around excavations
   
91.14   Warning lights
   
91.15   Sidewalk construction; repair
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.25   Public hearing required
   
91.26   Notice requirements
   
91.27   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
91.28   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
91.29   Separate hearing for each project not required
   
91.30   Exemptions from hearing requirement
Obstructions
   
91.40   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.41   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.42   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.43   Removal of ice and snow
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 RESERVED.
CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.10 RESERVED.
§ 91.11 RESERVED.
§ 91.12 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the City Commission or
other authorized city official, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and
specifications approved by the City Commission.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make such fill and restoration and the deposit shall be forfeited.
Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the appropriate city fund, except such
part demanded and paid to the permittee as the difference between the deposit
and the charges of the city for restoration services performed by it. If the
amount of such services performed by the city should exceed the amount of the
deposit, the City Clerk or other proper administrative officer shall proceed to
collect the remainder due from the permittee.
§ 91.13 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.14 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, shall install warning lighting in accordance with the most current
edition of the Federal Highway Administration’s Manual for Uniform Traffic
Control Devices (MUTCD).
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.15 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION; REPAIR.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide the city and its
residents the opportunity to repair, maintain and construct the sidewalks
located within the corporate boundaries of the city in such a manner as to
safeguard life, health, property and public welfare within the city.
   (B)   Scope. The provisions of this section shall apply to the removal,
repair, construction and maintenance of any sidewalk located within the
corporate boundaries of the city. In the event there is an apparent discrepancy
in the requirements specified in different sections of this code, or between
the requirements of this chapter and of any other applicable law the more
restrictive shall govern.
   (C)   Repair of sidewalks.
      (1)   The owners of property abutting on public ways within the city in
which a sidewalk is located are required to maintain that part of the sidewalk
adjoining the property respectively belonging to them at their own expense by
repairing any holes, uneven surfaces and other defective places therein by
using the materials as nearly similar as possible to that of which the sidewalk
is constructed.
      (2)   As soon as it ascertains the existence of defects of a sidewalk in
the city, the City Commission shall notify, in writing, the owner of the
property abutting the public way in which the sidewalk is located, to repair
same at his own expense within a period of 60 days after delivery of the
notice.
      (3)   In the event the owner fails to make such repairs, the City
Commission is authorized to have the necessary repairs made and to assess the
cost of same to the owner and notify the owner of the assessment in writing.
      (4)   In the event said owner fails to remit the costs as assessed within
30 days of the notice as given in division (C) above, the City Clerk shall take
the necessary steps to place a lien against the abutting property owner in the
office of the Jefferson County Clerk in the amount of the unpaid assessment.
   (D)   City participation.
      (1)   At the time the City Commission notifies the owner of the property
abutting the public way in which the sidewalks is located as to the existence
of defects in the sidewalk pursuant to division (C) above, it shall also advise
the property owner that the city will participate in the repair or maintenance
and upon approval of the contractor hired to do repair or maintenance.
      (2)   In no event will the city reimburse the property owner to the
extent as outlined in division (D)(1) above if the repair or maintenance is
done by the property owner without the consent of the city.
      (3)   In the event that the property owner participates with the city in
the repair or maintenance of the sidewalk abutting to the owner's property as
outlined under division (D)(1), the City Commission may develop a plan of
payment with each property owner.
(Ord. 92-03, passed 10-26-92)
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.25 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street, or bridge it shall hold a hearing in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter to determine the interest of the public with a
public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS 61.832(2) to (4) with
regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax moneys for road and
bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 91.26 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a specific
item on the public meeting agenda and shall allow any person to speak with
regard to any proposed project, any project which he or she feels should be
built or done which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of
projects, and any other matter related to road or bridge projects.
(KRS 174.100(1))
§ 91.27 PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100(2))
§ 91.28 HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting as provided herein
has been held.
(KRS 174.100(3))
§ 91.29 SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting for
each project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
meeting, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(4))
§ 91.30 EXEMPTIONS FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or man-caused disasters
nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100(5))
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.40 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.41 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.42 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see
Ch. 94
§ 91.43 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his premises free and clear of snow and ice to the extent
feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove therefrom all
snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions,
accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily not exceed
12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and ice may
have accumulated.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The person or entity causing damage or obstruction to the sidewalk
pavement or street pavement shall be responsible for the repair or replacement
of same within 15 weekdays or a mutually agreeable time period.
   (B)   Any person or entity obstructing or encumbering any street or sidewalk
within the city limits shall be subject to a $100 per occurrence fine, with
each 24 hour period, or part thereof, constituting a separate occurrence.
   (C)   Any homeowner not clearing their sidewalk of snow within 48 hours may
be subject to a $25/day fine from the point the violation is identified.
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.03   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
92.04   Abatement procedure
   
92.05   Nuisance created by others
   
92.06   Suspension of license
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE COLLECTOR. A person who collects and restores motor vehicles.
(KRS 381.770(1)(a))
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS. Any portion or parts of any motor driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Unable to move under its own power due to defective
or missing parts, and which has remained in such condition for a period of not
less than ten consecutive days.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any style or type of motor driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   NUISANCE. Public nuisance.
   ORDINARY PUBLIC VIEW. A sight line within normal visual range by a person on
a public street or sidewalk adjacent to real property. (KRS 381.770(1)(b))
   PARTS CAR. An automobile that is not intended to be operated along streets
and roads, but is used to provide parts for the restoration of other
automobiles. (KRS 381.770(1)(c))
   SCRAP METAL. Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum, or
any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE. In a dangerous condition; having defective or missing
parts; or in such a condition generally as to be unfit for further use as a
conveyance.
Editor's note:
   KRS 381.770 repealed 2016 Ky. Acts ch. 86, sec. 18, effective January 1,
2017.
§ 92.02 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of Kentucky as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided
in this chapter or in accordance with any other provision of law.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control or
management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance to develop
thereon. The following conditions are declared to be public nuisances:
   (A)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street. Any tree, stack, or other
object standing in such a condition that it will, if the condition is allowed
to continue, endanger the life, limb, or property of, or cause hurt, damage, or
injury to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways adjacent
thereto, by the falling thereof or of parts thereof.
   (B)   Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage, or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare, or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful
enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger
that it will catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents,
or insects, or blow rubbish into any street, sidewalk, or property of another.
   (C)   Storage of explosives. The storage of explosive material which creates
a safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity.
   (D)   Weeds and grass. The excessive growth of weeds, grass, or other
vegetation. Unless otherwise provided, EXCESSIVE shall mean growth to a height
of 12 inches or more.
   (E)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered, or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation, or vault situated upon private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place.
   (F)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets, sidewalks, and drainage. The
growing and maintenance of trees or shrubbery which in any way interferes with
the use, construction, or maintenance of streets or sidewalks, causes injury to
streets or sidewalks, or constitutes an obstruction to drainage.
   (G)   Keeping of animals. The failure to keep an animal's pen, yard, lot, or
other enclosure in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive
odors.
   (H)   Junk; scrap metal; motor vehicles. The storage of motor vehicles in an
inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for further use, automobile parts,
or scrap metal within the city limits except on premises authorized by the city
for such purposes.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, it shall be
unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control or management of any
land within the city to permit a public nuisance, health hazard, or source of
filth to develop thereon through the accumulation of:
      (1)   Junked or wrecked automobiles, vehicles, machines, or other similar
scrap or salvage materials, excluding inoperative farm equipment;
      (2)   One or more mobile or manufactured homes as defined in KRS 227.550
that are junked, wrecked, or nonoperative and which are noninhabited;
      (3)   Rubbish; or
      (4)   The excessive growth of weeds or grass.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)    Junked, wrecked, or nonoperative motor vehicles, machines, or
other similar scrap or salvage materials located on the business premises of a
licensed automotive recycling dealer as defined under the provisions of KRS
190.010(8);
      (2)   Junked, wrecked, or nonoperative motor vehicles, including parts
cars, stored on private real property by automobile collectors, whether as a
hobby or a profession, if these motor vehicles and parts cars are stored out of
ordinary public view by means of suitable fencing, shrubbery, or other means;
and
      (3)   Any motor vehicle as defined in KRS 281.011 that is owned,
controlled, operated, managed, or leased by a motor carrier.
(KRS 381.770(2), (3)
   (C)   Whenever a nuisance situation is discovered, the authorized city
official shall give five days' written notice to remedy the nuisance situation.
The notice shall be mailed to the last known address of the owner of property,
as it appears on the current tax assessment roll. Upon the failure of the owner
of the property to comply, the authorized city official is authorized to send
employees upon the property to remedy the situation.
   (D)   The city shall have a lien against the property for the reasonable
value of labor and materials used in remedying the nuisance situation. The
affidavit of the authorized city official shall constitute prima facie evidence
of the amount of the lien and the regularity of the proceedings pursuant to KRS
381.770 and this section, and shall be recorded in the office of the County
Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording
and shall bear interest at the rate established by the city thereafter until
paid. The lien created shall take precedence over all other subsequent liens,
except state, county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by
judicial proceeding. In addition to this remedy or any other remedy authorized
by law, the owner of a property upon which a lien has been attached pursuant to
this section shall be personally liable for the amount of the lien, including
all interest, civil penalties, and other charges and the city may bring a civil
action against the owner and shall have the same remedies as provided for the
recovery of a debt owed.
(KRS 381.770(6), (7))
Editor’s notes:
   KRS 281.011 repealed 2015 Ky. Acts ch. 19, sec. 45, effective June 24, 2015.
   KRS 381.770 repealed 2016 Ky. Acts ch. 86, sec. 18, effective January 1,
2017.
§ 92.05 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant, or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests, or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care ought to have become aware of.
§ 92.06 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Whenever it is brought to the attention of the City Commission that a
nuisance exists and the City Commission deems that there is an immediate threat
to the public health, safety, or welfare, the City Commission may by majority
vote suspend the license of any person conducting business upon the premises
where the nuisance exists.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall cause notice of the suspension to be served
personally upon the licensee or at the premises where the nuisance exists.
   (C)   Upon application of the licensee, the City Commission may remove the
suspension upon such terms as it may direct.
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day's
continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 93: RESERVED
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
94.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
94.03   Hauling loose material
   
94.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
94.05   Litter on private property
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley, or other
public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or foreign matter of any
kind.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt, or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place shall haul it, or cause it to be hauled in
vehicles provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any of the contents from falling or being thrown, blown, or deposited
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place. Any materials which
fall from, or which are thrown, blown, or deposited from any vehicle upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place, shall be removed immediately by
the person in charge of the vehicle.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks, or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city whether owned by that person or not.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day the violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 95: TREES
Section
   
95.01   Permit required for destruction of trees; exceptions
   
95.02   Application for permit
   
95.03   Procedure for approval or denial of permit
   
95.04   Responsibility of applicant to remove stump
Tree Trimming and Removal Program
   
95.15   Purpose
   
95.16   Scope
   
95.17   Trimming of trees and removal of damaged trees
 
   
95.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   City Forester (Arborist), see §
31.40
§ 95.01 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR DESTRUCTION OF TREES; EXCEPTION.
   No owner, occupant or person having control or management of any land within
the city shall cut down, girdle or intentionally or negligently destroy or
permit or cause to die any tree located in the right-of-way of the city without
first obtaining a permit. Excepted from the provisions of this section are
trees measuring two-inch in diameter or less, as measured at breast height
across its main trunk, or uprooted naturally from age or weather.
(Ord. 90-08, passed 12-17-90) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   An application for a permit to remove all other trees from the right-
of-way of the city, not previously excepted, shall be submitted to the City
Arborist in written letter format and shall contain:
      (1)   The owner's name and address;
      (2)   The name and address of the applicant, if different from division
(A)(1);
      (3)   A plat identifying the tree(s) for which the permit is requested,
in relation to the dwelling and other structures on the lot;
      (4)   The reason for removal of the tree(s);
      (5)   Any other comments the applicant thinks are relevant, such as plans
for replacement.
   (B)   No removal may be undertaken until a permit has been approved.
(Ord. 90-08, passed 12-17-90) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   The City Arborist shall examine the application for removal of a tree in the
right-of-way and ascertain whether the statements made therein conform to the
provisions of this chapter. Then the examining official shall bring a proper
application to the attention of the City Commission at or before the next
regularly scheduled city meeting. The City Commission shall, after discussion,
conclude whether the scenic beauty of the city would be impaired by the removal
of the tree(s) and shall weigh the interest of the landowner, considering
immediate replacement of the tree(s) and shall then approve or authorize the
City Arborist to issue in letter format, a written denial, stating the reason
for disapproval. The permit or denial thereof shall be mailed to the applicant
no later than three working days after the day the City Commission takes action
on the application.
(Ord. 90-08, passed 12-17-90)
§ 95.04 RESPONSIBILITY OF APPLICANT TO REMOVE STUMP.
   If the permit is approved and the tree is removed, the applicant is
responsible for removing the stump of the tree(s) to at least six inches below
the immediately surrounding level of the ground. Further, the applicant is
responsible for filling with dirt the hole created by the stump's removal and
seeding/sodding with grass, or other appropriate vegetation, so as to conform
to the surrounding area.
(Ord. 90-08, passed 12-17-90) Penalty, see §
95.99
TREE TRIMMING AND REMOVAL PROGRAM
§ 95.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide the city and its residents the
opportunity to trim the trees and remove damaged trees located within the
corporate boundaries of the city in such a manner as to safeguard life, health,
property and public welfare within the city, as well as preserve the aesthetics
of the property within the city.
(Ord. 93-03, passed 7-19-93)
§ 95.16 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the trimming and removal of
any trees located within the corporate boundaries and in the property owner's
yard within 20 feet from the edge of the pavement, or if determined to be a
public hazard by the City Arborist. In the event there is an apparent
discrepancy in the requirements specified in different sections of this Code,
or between the requirements of this chapter and of any other applicable law,
the more restrictive shall govern.
(Ord. 93-03, passed 7-19-93)
§ 95.17 TRIMMING OF TREES AND REMOVAL OF DAMAGED TREES.
   (A)   The owners of property having trees that fall within the scope of this
subchapter and wish to have those trees removed or trimmed shall do so at their
own expense.
   (B)   Owners must arrange to have hazard limbs and trees that threaten
public safety removed within 30 days, an additional 30 days for removal of
hazard limbs or trees will be granted, if so needed.
   (C)   In the event that the City Arborist in consultation with a certified
arborist has in his judgement determined that a tree or part thereof falling
within the scope of this subchapter needs removal and after so being advised
the property owner refuses to remove the hazard pursuant to division (B) of
this section, then the city may contract for the removal of the tree and bill
the property owner.
   (D)   If the property owner fails to remit within 90 days of being billed of
the removal then the legislative body may direct the City Attorney to file a
lien against the property or take whatever other measures necessary to collect
from the property owner.
   (E)   In the case of imminent danger, the City Arborist will inform the
Council requesting the declaration of an emergency. With the declaration,
either the owner or city may remove the hazard limb or tree as soon as
possible.
(Ord. 93-03, passed 7-19-93; Am. Ord. 93-04, passed 10-18-93)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person whether owner, occupant, or agent thereof, who destroys, cuts
down, girdles or causes the destruction or removal of a tree, or negligently
allows the death of a tree in the city right-of- way, which tree is not
specifically exempted from these provisions, shall be liable to the city for
the cost of stump removal and replacement by the city with another tree. The
property owner, as a penalty for tree removal without a permit, shall be
assessed a fine of $200 per inch of trunk diameter, with a minimum assessment
of $200 and a maximum assessment of $2,500. The city will endeavor to replace
any tree so removed with a tree of equivalent size or a tree that is the
largest like-kind reasonable diameter. The city shall have a lien filed against
the property from which the tree was removed in an amount equal to $200 or the
value or cost of the labor, materials and replacement tree used in restoring
the right-of-way and court costs and legal fees in securing the lien, up to
$2,000, whichever is greater.
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   PAWNBROKERS
      
113.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain trades, businesses, or
professions
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Standards; issuance of license
   
110.04   Date and duration of license
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.07   Revocation or suspension
   
110.08   Appeal and review
   
110.09   Exemptions
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRADES, BUSINESSES, OR
PROFESSIONS.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses, or professions for
which licenses are required by any provision of this code or any other
ordinance of the city without first applying for and obtaining a license from
the City Clerk or other duly authorized issuing authority.
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the City Clerk in writing upon forms to be furnished
by him and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and of each officer, partner, or business
associate;
      (2)   His present occupation and place of business;
      (3)   His place of residence for five years next preceding the date of
application;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   A description of the merchandise to be sold, if for a vendor;
      (7)   Such other information concerning the applicant and his business as
may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the license
desired.
   (B)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing upon the original application, unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful knowingly to make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 STANDARDS; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of such application for a license, accompanied by the
proper fee, if approval by another officer or department is not required, the
City Clerk shall forthwith deposit the fee in the General Fund of the city and
issue to the applicant a proper license certificate signed by the City Clerk
and any other appropriate city official. If for any reason the license is not
issued, the license fee shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant's
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (C)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude; or
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application; or
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like; or
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application.
§ 110.04 DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein
specified and, unless otherwise provided, shall not extend beyond December 31
of the year issued. However, at any time after December 14 licenses may be
issued for the ensuing calendar year. Unless otherwise specified the full
annual fee will be required of licensees irrespective of the date of issue of
the license.
   (B)   In no event shall a license be granted to any business or any person
for a longer time than one year.
(KRS 92.310)
Editor’s note:
   KRS. 92.310 repealed 2014 Ky. Acts ch. 92, sec. 314, effective January 1,
2015.
§ 110.05 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business, and unless otherwise provided no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep posted in
a prominent place upon the licensed premises, the license certificate. Other
licensees shall carry their license certificates at all times and whenever
requested by any officer or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license may be revoked by the City Commission at any time for
conditions or considerations which, had they existed at the time of issuance,
would have been valid grounds for its denial; for any misrepresentation of a
material fact in the application discovered after issuance of the license; for
violation of any provision of this chapter or other law or ordinance relating
to the operation of the business or enterprise for which the license has been
issued; or upon conviction of a licensee for any federal, state, or municipal
law or ordinance involving moral turpitude.
   (B)   The revocation shall become effective upon notice served upon the
licensee or posted upon the premises affected.
   (C)   As a preliminary to revocation, the City Commission may issue an order
suspending the license, which shall become effective immediately upon service
of written notice to the licensee. This notice shall specify the reason for
suspension, and may provide conditions under which reinstatement of the license
may be obtained. Upon compliance with these conditions within the time
specified, the license may be restored.
§ 110.08 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   In case any applicant has been denied a license, or if his license has been
revoked or suspended, the applicant or licensee as the case may be, shall
within three business days have the right to appeal to the City Commission from
the denial, revocation, or suspension. Notice of appeal shall be filed in
writing with the City Clerk who shall fix the time and place for a hearing
which shall be held not later than one week thereafter. The City Clerk shall
notify the City Commission of the time and place of the hearing not less than
24 hours in advance thereof. A majority of the City Commission members shall
constitute a quorum to hear the appeal. The appellant may appear and be heard
in person or by counsel. If, after hearing, a majority of the members of the
City Commission present at the meeting declare in favor of the applicant, the
license shall be issued or fully reinstated as the case may be; otherwise the
order appealed from shall become final.
§ 110.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any business, occupation
or profession which is exempt from municipal licensing and/or license taxes
pursuant to state or federal law.
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500.
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale, or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city.
   A person who is a peddler is not an itinerant merchant.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a solicitor is not
a peddler.
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the City Commission.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk. This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual;
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock;
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application;
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant;
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application the following:
      (1)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising proposed
to be used in connection with the applicant's business;
      (2)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any, for
which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act
as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C), a
statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant's
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude; or
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application; or
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like; or
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application.
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his last known address,
at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
or
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license; or
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter; or
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the City Commission. The appeal shall
be taken by filing with the City Commission, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to such person's last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The City Commission shall set
the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the City Commission after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed
Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license, and the
number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during such
time as he is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day's violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 112: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Bond
   
112.03   Register to be kept; daily reports
   
112.04   Receipt to be given for each article; sale of article
   
112.05   Maximum interest, resale price
   
112.06   Receipt to be given for payment of loan
   
112.07   Prohibited activities
   
112.08   Enforcement
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property;
deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the property
back again at a stipulated price; makes a public display at his place of
business of the sign generally used by pawnbrokers to denote their business; or
who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on personal property or
deposit.
(KRS 226.010)
§ 112.02 BOND.
   Every person to whom a city license is granted to carry on the business of a
pawnbroker shall annually enter into bond to the city, with good and sufficient
surety to be approved by the City Commission, in the penal sum of $1000. This
bond shall be conditioned that he will observe the provisions of this chapter
and all ordinances and laws in force in the city not inconsistent with this
chapter.
(KRS 226.020)
§ 112.03 REGISTER TO BE KEPT; DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and purchases of
all articles by the pawnbroker from the general public. The register shall:
      (1)   Be reported to an online, internet-based transaction recording
service accessible to law enforcement agencies;
      (2)   Show the dates and the amounts of all loans or purchases by the
pawnbroker from the general public, and the names and:
         (a)   A driver's license number;
         (b)   Another state or federally issued picture identification card
number; or
         (c)   If the identification specified in division (A)(2)(a) or (b) is
not available, a Social Security number may be accepted; of all persons who
have left any property that has been pawned or sold;
      (3)   At all times be available to the inspection of any law enforcement
officer of this state when in the discharge of his or her official duty; and
      (4)   Contain a full description of all property purchased by the
pawnbroker from the general public or received on deposit as collateral or
security. When requested by law enforcement and pertaining to an investigation,
a photograph of the merchandise shall be made available to law enforcement if
the property is still in the possession of the pawnbroker. For purposes of this
division (A)(4), "full description" includes but is not limited to:
         (a)   Make;
         (b)   Model;
         (c)   Color;
         (d)   Size;
         (e)   Manufacturer;
         (f)   Vintage; and
         (g)   Distinguishing marks or characteristics.
   (B)   When secondhand merchandise is sold to a pawnbroker, the merchandise
shall be held for a minimum of 12 days before being resold.
   (C)   Prior to the release of property to a representative of law
enforcement, the law enforcement representative shall provide to the pawnbroker
a case report or other documentation that the item has been reported as stolen.
(KRS 226.040)
   (D)   Every pawnbroker in a city or in the unincorporated area of any county
shall by 11:00 a.m. each day, make available to the Chief of Police a true and
correct written report of all goods received by him or her, whether by pawn or
purchase, during the 24 hours preceding each report. The report shall describe
the goods as accurately as practicable. The Chief of Police shall furnish
blanks for these reports. (KRS 226.070)
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR EACH ARTICLE; SALE OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall give a plain written or printed ticket for the
loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased, or upon which money is
loaned, having on each a copy of the entries required by KRS 226.040 to be kept
in his or her register. He shall not make any charge for the ticket or receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of 60
days from the maturity of the loan, provided that, not less than ten days
before making the sale, the pawnbroker shall have given notice to the person by
whom the article was pawned, by mail addressed to the post office address of
such person as shown on the pawnbroker's register, notifying such person that,
unless he or she redeems the article within ten days from the date of mailing
said notice, the article will be sold.
(KRS 226.050) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 MAXIMUM INTEREST, RESALE PRICE.
   Any pawnbroker as defined in §
112.01, may, in loaning money on deposit of personal property, charge, contract
for, or receive interest at a rate not exceeding 2% per month on the unpaid
principal balance of the loan, and may charge, contract for, and receive a
reasonable fee, not to exceed one-fifth of the value of the loan per month, for
investigating the title, storing and insuring the property, closing the loan,
making daily reports to local law enforcement officers if required by §
112.03, and for other expenses, losses, and incidental costs associated with
servicing such loans. Further, this fee, when made and collected, shall not be
deemed as interest for any purpose of law. No pawnbroker shall directly or
indirectly charge, receive, or contract for any interest or consideration
greater than that allowed by this section.
(KRS 226.080) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR PAYMENT OF LOAN.
   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower, shall
give to that person a plain and complete receipt for such payment, specifying
separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to interest.
In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased personal property under an
agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on
receiving any payment of money from the person from whom the property was
purchased, give that person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the
stipulated resale price, and the amount received.
(KRS 226.090) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of either pledge or pawn, any article
whatever from a minor at any time nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
(KRS 226.030) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter unless
otherwise provided by KRS 226.100. However, county police, for the purpose of
locating stolen goods, may carry out the provisions of KRS 226.060 within the
city.
(KRS 226.100)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any pawnbroker or pawnbroker's clerk who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter for which no penalty is otherwise provided shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
$50 nor more than $500, and his license may be forfeited to the city.
(KRS 226.990(1))
   (B)   Any pawnbroker who violates any of the provisions of §
112.03(B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $20
nor more than $100.
(KRS 226.990(3))
CHAPTER 113: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
113.01   Imposition of license fee
   
113.02   Amount of fee for companies issuing life insurance
   
113.03   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
113.04   Due date; interest
   
113.05   Written breakdown of collections
§ 113.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city, on a calendar-year basis.
(Ord. 95-01, passed 3-20-95)
§ 113.02 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING LIFE INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues life
insurance policies on the lives of persons residing within the corporate limits
of the city shall be 5% of the first year's premiums actually collected within
each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of such policies.
(Ord. 95-01, passed 3-20-95)
§ 113.03 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be 5% of the
premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the
issuance of such policies on risks located within the corporate limits of the
city on those classes of business which such company is authorized to transact,
less all premiums returned to policyholders; however, any license fee or tax
imposed upon premium receipts shall not include premiums received for insuring
employers against liability for personal injuries to their employees, or death
to their employees caused thereby, under the provisions of the Workers'
Compensation Act and shall not include premiums received on policies of group
health insurance provided for state employees under KRS 18A.225(2) and 18A.228
.
(Ord. 95-01, passed 3-20-95)
§ 113.04 DUE DATE; INTEREST.
   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30 days
after the end of each calendar quarter. License fees which are not paid on or
before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in
KRS 131.010(6).
(Ord. 95-01, passed 3-20-95)
§ 113.05 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty.
   (B)   Automobile.
   (C)   Inland marine.
   (D)   Fire and allied perils.
   (E)   Health.
   (F)   Life.
(Ord. 95-01, passed 3-20-95)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
130.01   Discharging firearms prohibited
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DISCHARGING FIREARMS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to shoot or discharge any gun, pistol, or air
rifle, in, into or across any portion of the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to any police officer, soldier, or
other person, properly authorized by any recognized authority from discharging
a firearm while in the performance of his duty.
(Ord. passed 2-19-40) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of up to $500,
imprisonment for up to 30 days and both such fine and imprisonment.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING AND HOUSING REGULATIONS
         (Residential Building Design Standards)
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING AND HOUSING REGULATIONS
(Residential Building Design Standards)
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Compliance requirement
   
150.002   Definitions
   
150.003   Purpose
   
150.004   Exemptions
   
150.005   Scope of building regulations
   
150.006   Limitations upon fences
   
150.007   Lot subdivision
   
150.008   Building limits
   
150.009   City Architect
   
150.010   Variances
Building Permits
   
150.020   Permit required
   
150.021   Application for permit
   
150.022   Permit fee
   
150.023   Issuance of permit
   
150.024   Responsibilities of permit applicant
   
150.025   Inspections
   
150.026   Completion of project; refund of deposits
Minimum Building Standards and Regulations
   
150.030   Character of buildings; conformity with existing structures
   
150.031   Location of buildings; appurtenances
   
150.032   Exterior materials and colors
   
150.033   Additions and modifications
   
150.034   Accessory buildings
Housing Regulations
   
150.045   Scope of housing regulations
   
150.046   Pest infestations and extermination
   
150.047   Wild or undomesticated animals
   
150.048   Prohibited conditions
   
150.049   External maintenance and repair
   
150.050   Responsibilities of owner or landlord
   
150.051   Responsibilities of occupants
   
150.052   Vacant dwellings; procedure for securing
Swimming Pools
   
150.065   Swimming pool restrictions
   
150.066   Permit required
   
150.067   Permit application
   
150.068   Issuance of permit
   
150.069   Fences around swimming pools
Pull-Offs; Street Curbs
   
150.080   Permit for pull-offs
   
150.081   Permit for street curb
Floodlights
   
150.095   Permit required
   
150.096   Permit application
   
150.097   Issuance of permit
Fences
   
150.100   Permitted and prohibited fences
   
150.101   Maximum fence height
   
150.102   Fence locations
   
150.103   Fence orientation and adjoining fences
   
150.104   Permit required
Solar Energy Systems
   
150.200   Applicability
   
150.201   Appearance and materials
   
150.202   Location
   
150.203   Ancillary solar equipment
   
150.204   Abandonment and removal
   
150.205   Permit required
   
150.206   Permit application
   
150.207   Issuance of permit
Nuisances
   
150.220   Authorization
   
150.221   Initial determination
   
150.222   Notice of violation
   
150.223   Creation of Property Committee
   
150.224   Right to appeal and hearing
   
150.225   Conduct of hearings
   
150.226   Abatement of nuisance
   
150.227   Lien and liability for costs of abatement
Code Enforcement Board
   
150.235   Code Enforcement Board
   
150.236   Creation and membership
   
150.237   Authority
   
150.238   Members; appointments, terms, removals, and oath
   
150.239   Board organization; meetings and quorum; alternate members
   
150.240   Conflict of interest
   
150.241   Jurisdiction
   
150.242   Powers and duties
   
150.243   Enforcement proceedings
   
150.244   Hearing; notice; final order
   
150.245   Legal counsel
   
150.246   Appeals; final judgment
   
150.247   Ordinance Permit Fee and Fine Schedule
   
150.248   Liens; fines, charges, and fees
   
150.249   Lienholder notification system
   
150.250   Liens
 
   
150.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Property owner responsibility. Any permanent or semi-permanent
building, deck, patio, driveway, or other constructed site improvement in the
city is affected by certain legal restriction of the State of Kentucky,
Jefferson County, and Louisville Metro. Each property owner who is making an
improvement to their property is responsible for compliance with these
requirements.
   (B)   Regulation of all buildings. All structures for human use or occupancy
are subject to the regulation of the Louisville Metro Ordinance 150.001, as
promulgated by the Board of Housing, Buildings and Construction, Commonwealth
of Kentucky. This includes all houses, garages, sheds, additions, porches,
decks, retaining walls, swimming pools and also commercial structures.
Interpretation, enforcement and review of structures occurs at the local
government level.
(Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
§ 150.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building or structure, the use of which is
incidental to that of the main building or to be used on the premises.
   ALTER or ALTERATION. Any change or modification in the construction or
occupancy.
   ARCH. A structural method of spanning an opening, usually with masonry,
whereby curbed, pointed or flat upper edges of the opening are formed.
   ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS. A set of detailed drawings which are used to convey
different types of information to the contractor(s). These documents are drawn
to scale, and will include floor plans, elevations of all affected sides of the
building, wall sections to identify all building materials and details.
   AREA. As applied to the dimensions of a building, the maximum horizontal
projected area of the building at grade.
   AWNING. A light weight temporary shade structure usually build over a window
or door, or sometimes over an entire deck or patio. AWNINGS are usually
constructed of weather resistant fabric, but may also be metal or wood. Only
fabric awnings are permitted on front or side of house, non-fabric awning
should not be visible from street.
   AWNING WINDOW. A window which is hinged at the top and swings outward from
the bottom.
   BUILDING. A structure for the shelter, support, or enclosure of persons,
materials, or property of any kind, having a roof supported by columns or
walls, and when separated by a division or party wall without opening, each
portion of the build so separated shall be deemed a separate building The term
BUILDING shall be construed as if followed by the words “or part thereof.”
   BUILDING SETBACK AREA. The area of a lot or parcel of land lying between the
front property line and the future widening line of an existing street or
highway or the area of a lot or parcel of land lying between the boundary lines
of a proposed street or highway.
   CASEMENT WINDOW. A window which is hinged on one side and swings open
outward. This window is typically opened by a crank handle.
   CEMENT FIBER SIDING. A horizontal board lap siding that looks like wood
siding, either standard lap or colonial beaded lap style. The siding is made
from a chemical mixture of wood fibers and cement. It is paintable, nailable,
and is highly weather resistant.
   CHIMNEY. A primary vertical structure containing one or more flues, for the
purpose of carrying gaseous products of combustion and air from a fuel burning
appliance to the outside atmosphere that extends above the roof line and is
supported by an approved foundation.
   CHIMNEY, BAY. A chimney with a cantilever base that does not extend above
the roof line. Also known as SHED HOUSE or DOG HOUSE STYLE CHIMNEY.
   COMPOSITION BOARD (HARDBOARD). A board made up of wood fibers and resins to
form a sheet or simulated board to be used as an exterior siding.
   CORBEL. A course or unit of masonry that projects beyond the course below. A
CORBEL may be used entirely for decoration, or for a ledge to support a load
from above.
   CORNER BOARDS. Vertical boards installed on the comers of sided homes to
cover the ends of the siding.
   CORNICE. An exterior ornamental trim at the meeting of the roof and wall.
This type of cornice usually includes a bed moulding, a soffit, a fascia, and a
crown moulding.
   DENTIL MOULDING. Square tooth-like blocks used as ornamentals under a
cornice.
   DORMER WINDOW. Vertical window which projects from a sloping roof, placed in
a small enclosed projection.
   DOUBLE-HUNG WINDOW. Window with two vertically operating sashes sliding in
two directions to enclose the opening.
   DWELLING. Any building which contains a dwelling unit as hereinafter
defined; provided, however, temporary housing as hereinafter shall not
constitute a DWELLING for purposes of this chapter.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building designed for or occupied by one family,
wherein not more than two roomers or lodgers other than members of the family,
are provided with shelter or meals.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms or other part of a building which
forms a single housekeeping unit with facilities which are used or are designed
for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   EASEMENT. A right afforded a person, or entity, to make limited use of
another person's real property such as a right-of-way through a lot established
for utilities access.
   EAVE. The lower edge of a sloping roof which projects beyond the wall.
   ELEVATION. Exterior face of a structure (front, side, and rear).
   EYEBROW WINDOW. A low dormer on the slope of a roof formed by the roofing
material being carried over the opening in a wave line.
   FACADE. Exterior face in a building which is the formal front.
   FENCE. Any construction of wood, metal, wire mesh, masonry, or other
material, erected for any purpose.
   FLOOD PLAIN. Land which borders a body of water which may be subject to
flooding.
   FLOOR PLAN. A drawing showing the layout of the enclosing walls of a
structure, its doors and windows, and the arrangements of the interior spaces
as viewed from above.
   FOOTPRINT. Outline of a structure as viewed from above.
   FOUNDATION. The structural base whereby all of the load from the building is
transmitted to the ground. The foundation wall is usually constructed out of
concrete material. The footing runs under the foundation wall and is typically
concrete.
   GABLE. The vertical triangular portion of the end of a structure having a
double-sloping roof from the level of the eave to the ridge of the roof.
   GRADE. The average elevation of the finished ground surface touching the
outside walls of a building or structure.
   JACK ARCH. Also called FLAT ARCH or STRAIGHT ARCH. A horizontal row of wedge
cut brick over an opening.
   KEYSTONE. The usually wedge-shaped uppermost, hence last, set stone or
similar member of an arch, whose placement not only completes the arch but also
binds or locks its other members together. May be used above a door or window
in a horizontal lintel for decoration.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied, or to be occupied, by one main building,
together with the accessory buildings and used customarily incidental to it,
and including such open spaces, dimensions, and area as are required in this
chapter, and have its principal frontage on a public street or road.
   LOT, CORNER. The abutting on two or more streets at their intersections.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a comer lot.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than one dwelling unit.
   OCCUPANT. Any person living, sleeping, cooking, or eating in, or having
actual possession of a dwelling unit.
   OWNER. Any person who alone, jointly, or with several other persons shall:
      (1)   Have all or part of the legal title to any dwelling unit, with or
without accompanying actual possession thereof, or shall have all or part of
the beneficial ownership of any dwelling or dwelling unit and a right to
present use and enjoyment thereof, including a mortgage in possession; or
      (2)   Have charge, care, or control of any dwelling or dwelling unit as
owner, or as executor, administrator, trustee, or guardian of the estate of the
owner. Any person thus representing the actual owner shall be bound to comply
with the owner's obligations under this chapter.
   PARKING AREA. An open, unoccupied space permitted or required for use for
parking of motor-driven vehicles.
   PEDIMENT. A gabled element used primarily over entrances.
   PILASTER. A non-structural rectangular or semicircular column applied to the
wall simulating supports for a decorative pediment or arch above.
   PRE-FINISHED MATERIAL. Material that has received a factory finish and is
ready to install upon delivery to the construction site.
   PROPERTY. Any interest of record or otherwise held by persons in land or
building located within the city.
   RAKE BOARD. A board or moulding along the sloping edge of a gable which
conceals the rafter.
   RIDGE VENT. A linear ventilating cap installed along the ridge of a gabled
roof.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land (ground surface, underground, or above ground)
which has been granted by deed or easement for the construction or maintenance
of a roadway.
   ROOF PITCH. The height (rise) that a sloped roof goes up to from its eave
over a given horizontal distance (run). This is usually expressed as “rise/
run.”
   ROWLOCK COURSE. A course of brick units set on side with the short, narrow
face vertical on the wall face.
   SCALE.
      (1)   A system of proportions used in architectural drawings so that the
actual size of an item to be drawn can be reduced to a size small enough to fit
on a sheet of paper.
      (2)   Term used to relate to the proportional balance of all elements of
a building.
   SEGMENTED ARCH. An arch which is composed of parts of a circle (less than
half).
   SHINGLES, DIMENSIONAL. Asphaltic/fiberglass roofing material manufactured in
laminated layers to achieve the depth and dimension variation that simulates
the look of wood shingles or slate.
   SHINGLES, SLATE. A roof shingle made from a fine-grained metamorphic rock or
composite shingle made from slate and resin.
   SHINGLES, STANDARD (THREE-TAB). A roof covering made from asphalt or
asphalt/fiberglass generally 36 inches wide, and consisting of three 12-inch
non-dimensional tabs.
   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE. A structure maintained and used as a single
dwelling unit. Notwithstanding that a dwelling unit shares one or more walls
with another dwelling unit, it is a SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENCE if it has direct
access to a street or thoroughfare and shares neither heating facilities, hot
water equipment, nor any other essential facility or service with any other
dwelling unit.
   SITE PLAN. A plan of a lot indicating property lines, the accurate location
and size of structures shown with dimensions to property lines.
   SLIDE-BY WINDOW (GLIDER). A window which is divided vertically in the center
with each sash panel having the capacity to slide horizontally.
   SOFFIT. The underside of a part or member of a structure, such as a beam,
stairway, or arch.
   SOFFIT BOARD. A board that forms the soffit of a cornice.
   SOLDIER COURSE. A course of brick units set on end with the long, narrow
face vertical on the wall face.
   SOLAR COLLECTOR. A solar PV cell, panel, or array, or solar thermal
collector device, that relies upon solar radiation as an energy source for the
generation of electricity or transfer of stored heat.
   SOLAR ENERGY. Radiant energy received from the sun that can be collected in
the form of heat or light by a solar collector.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. An arrangement of solar collectors and other electrical
and/or mechanical devices capable of collecting and converting solar radiation
into heat or mechanical or electrical energy and transferring these forms of
energy by a separate apparatus to storage or to point of use, including, but
not limited to, water heating, space heating or cooling, electric energy
generation, or mechanical energy generation.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, GROUND MOUNTED. A solar energy system that is
structurally mounted to the ground and is not roof mounted. These systems are
typically installed directly onto specialized solar racking systems, which are
attached to an anchor in the ground and wired to connect to an adjacent home or
building. Ground mount systems may be advisable when insufficient space,
structural and shading issues, or other restrictions prohibit rooftop solar.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, POLE MOUNTED. A solar energy system that is directly
installed on specialized solar racking systems, which are attached to a pole,
which is anchored and firmly affixed to a concrete foundation in the ground,
and wired underground to an attachment point at the building's meter. Unlike
ground mount systems, pole mount systems are elevated from the ground. Pole
mounted systems can be designed to track the sun (with single-axis or dual-axis
tracking motors) and maximize solar output throughout the year.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, ROOF MOUNTED (a/k/a ROOFTOP MOUNTED, BUILDING MOUNTED).
A solar energy system that is structurally mounted to the roof of a building or
structure. These systems typically consist of solar panels installed directly
on the roof of a home, commercial building, and/or an accessory structure, such
as a garage, pergola, and/or shed. Solar panels are mounted and secured using
racking systems specifically designed to minimize the impact on the roof and
prevent any leaks or structural damage. Roof mount systems can be mounted flush
with the roof or tilted toward the sun at an angle.
   SOLAR GLARE. The potential for solar panels to reflect sunlight, with an
intensity sufficient to cause annoyance, discomfort, or loss in visual
performance and visibility.
   SPLIT LEVEL HOUSE. A building divided vertically so that the floor level of
rooms in one part is approximately midway between the levels of two successive
stories in an adjoining part.
   STANDING SEAM ROOF. A seam, in sheet metal and roofing, made by turning up
two adjacent edges and folding the upstanding parts over themselves.
   STORY (TWO-STORY HOUSE). the space in a building between two adjacent floor
levels or between a floor and the roof. A two-story house refers to a building
with two separate levels one above the other.
   STREET. Any public thoroughfare which has been dedicated or deeded to the
public for public use.
   STREET LINE. A lot line dividing a lot from a street.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which required
location on the ground or attached to something having a location on the
ground. All regulations appertaining to a building shall be equally applicable
to a structure. The term STRUCTURE shall be construed as if followed by the
words “or part thereof.”
   SUNROOM, FULLY GLAZED. Any room with sides whose exterior walls, at the
first floor level, consist of (1) posts and glazed openings (windows and/or
doors) on all exposed sides, or (2) sided walls with windows on all exposed
sides occupying a minimum of 60% of the wall length on each side and the sills
(bottom) of which are no higher than 24 inches above the floor and heads (top)
are a minimum of 80 inches above the floor.
   SURFACE. The outermost layer or superficial area of the interior of a
dwelling or dwelling unit, including but not limited to the outermost layer or
superficial area of walls, ceiling, floors, stairs, windows, window sills,
window frames, window sashes, doors, door frames, baseboards, and wood work of
a dwelling or dwelling unit.
   SYNTHETIC STUCCO (EIFS or DRYVIT). A pre-manufactured exterior finish
material resembling cement stucco with smooth or textured surfaces which can
applied over the exterior sheathing of a building.
   TOPOGRAPHY. A description of the vertical variations of land.
   TRIM. Trim materials are used to trim various components of a residential
structure, such as window and doors. They are not the dominant siding material
on a building elevation.
   UNFINISHED MATERIAL. Material that does not receive a special coating to
alter the natural appearance but may be treated with a preservative to prevent
decay.
   VALUE or VALUATION. The estimated cost to replace the building in kind.
   VINYL SIDING. A PVC siding that is not permitted as a building material in
Seneca Gardens.
   WINDOW, ARCHITECTURAL. A window that by its design add an ornamental feature
to the home. These windows will be accented by such elements as an arch,
circle, flex frame (angles), elliptical, stained or beveled glass, shutters, or
grid work.
   WINDOW, STANDARD. Square or rectangular frame with no features mentioned in
the architectural window definition.
   WINDOW AND DOOR TRIM. Board or moulding installed around perimeter of a
window or a door to conceal the joint.
   WINDOW SASH. The framework of a window that holds the glass.
   WOOD FIBER COMPOSITES. See COMPOSITION BOARD.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
§ 150.003 PURPOSE.
   The residential development building design standards and criteria are
hereby established for the following purposes:
   (A)   To establish and enforce a set of criteria applicable to all
residential developments that ensure that future residents are provided a
minimum level of quality for their city.
   (B)   To provide clear policy direction and standards to the community that
ensures that the city improves its quality of life through a set of consistent
standards.
   (C)   To enhance the value of private property and a sound investment
climate through the establishment of consistent design criteria.
   (D)   To protect the public's health, safety, and general welfare through a
set of design criteria that encourage a consistent quality.
   (E)   To allow architectural creativity and compatibility with surround
housing conditions is recognized and encouraged.
   (F)   Exception to the standards set forth in this chapter shall be
considered by the City Commission.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
§ 150.004 EXEMPTIONS.
   Buildings, fences, lights and pools in existence prior to December 17, 1990
are exempted from compliance in terms of their architectural style and
placement. Otherwise they are subject to all sections of this chapter.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
§ 150.005 SCOPE OF BUILDING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the location,
design, materials and equipment, removal, construction and demolition of every
building or any appurtenance connected or attached to buildings located within
the corporate boundaries of the city. In the event there is an apparent
difference in the materials, methods of construction, or other requirements
specified in different sections of this code, or between the requirements of
this chapter and of any other applicable law, or deed restrictions the more
restrictive shall govern.
   (B)   New buildings. New buildings hereinafter erected within the city shall
comply with the requirements of this chapter. Under no circumstances shall a
multifamily building be permitted.
   (C)   Existing buildings. Except as otherwise specifically provided,
buildings to which additions, alterations, or repairs are made, and all
additions, alterations, or repairs, shall comply with the requirements of this
code for new buildings. Under no circumstances shall a single family residence
be altered in such a way so as to be capable of use as a multifamily residence.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
§ 150.006 LIMITATION UPON FENCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain a fence on
any part of the front or side yard of any lot within the city extending forward
of the dwelling's outermost rear comers to which it runs.
   (B)   All fences on side and rear lot lines shall not exceed limitations of
the Louisville Metro planning and zoning regulations pertaining to the building
lot where fence is to be erected, shall not be greater in height than six feet
from ground level and the fence shall be of a design and material to conform
with the existing harmony of the surrounding area as determined by the City
Commission.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 92-06, passed 2-15-93; Am. Ord. 7, 2019,
passed - - ) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.007 LOT SUBDIVISION.
   No lots or areas platted within the city and recorded in the office of
Jefferson County Clerk as of the date this chapter becomes effective shall be
subdivided, altered or changed without the prior written approval of the City
Commission.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.008 BUILDING LIMITS.
   No house, building or structure may be erected so more than 30% of the area
of any lot is occupied by houses, buildings or structures.
(Ord. passed 1-25-40; Am. Ord. passed 8-17-92; Am. Ord. passed 9-21-92; Am.
Ord. 2013-01, passed 2-18-13; Am. Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.009 CITY ARCHITECT.
   Appointment of City Architect. The City Commission shall appoint a qualified
individual, who need not be a resident of the city, to the position of City
Architect which appointment may be terminated at will by the City Commission.
Every effort should be made to appoint individuals who are graduates of
accredited schools of architecture and have had experience with building or
construction work. If this position is unfilled at any time, the City
Commission will act in the place of the City Architect.
   (A)   Duties. The City Architect is authorized and directed to enforce all
provisions of this code as herein provided.
   (B)   Deputies. The City Architect, with the approval of the City
Commission, may designate deputies who shall exercise during the absence or
disability of the City Architect, by whom they were appointed all powers of the
City Architect.
   (C)   Inspectors. The City Architect, with the approval of the City
Commission, may appoint inspectors and assistants to help carry out the
provisions of this code for which they are directly responsible. No person
shall be appointed as an inspector who has not been found by the City
Commission to have some experience as an architect, engineer, builder, or in
some other phase of construction work.
   (D)   Right of entry. Upon the presentation of the proper credentials, the
Director of Building or his or her duly authorized representatives may enter at
reasonable times any building, structure or premise within the city to perform
any and all duties imposed upon him or her by this chapter.
   (E)   Liability. Any person charged with the enforcement of this code,
acting in good faith and without malice for the city in the discharge of his or
her duties, shall not thereby render him or herself personally liable and he or
she is relieved from all personal liability for any damage that may accrue to
persons or property as a result of any act required or by reason of any act or
omission performed by him or her in the enforcement of any provisions of this
chapter, and shall have the right to be defended by the City Attorney until
final determination of any proceedings pending against him or her.
   (F)   Specific duties. The City Architect is authorized and directed to:
      (1)   Enforce all provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Review plans and specifications;
      (3)   Recommend to the City Commission the issuance or denial of building
permits and certificates;
      (4)   Conduct inspections;
      (5)   Recommend to the City Commission the issuance of rules and
regulations consistent with this chapter;
      (6)   Maintain records and make reports; and
      (7)   Perform other services as may be necessary to execute the
provisions of this chapter and be consistent therewith.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
§ 150.010 VARIANCES.
   (A)   General. Any party in interest may request that the City Commission
grant a variance to the provisions of this code when the City Commission finds
that the provisions of this chapter impose undue and unwarranted hardships or
injustices upon the party requesting a variance and that the granting of the
variance will most nearly accomplish and not defeat the purpose and intent of
this chapter, or the Louisville Metro planning and zoning regulations. In which
case the variance will have to be granted by the Louisville Metro Planning
Commission.
   (B)   Procedure. Upon receipt of a request for the granting of a variance to
this chapter, the City Commission shall, at their next regularly scheduled
meeting, following receipt of the request, establish a time and place for a
hearing to be held on the request. The parties requesting the variance shall
give ten days' notice to the hearing by registered mail, return receipt
requested, to the owners of all property adjacent to the area for which the
variance is being requested. The City Commission shall, at the time the date of
the hearing is established, determine the meaning of the word "adjacent" so as
to give reasonable notice to all parties who may reasonably be expected to be
affected by the variance.
   (C)   Hearing. During the course of the hearing, the City Commission shall
require proof that a good faith effort has been made to notify those parties,
as determined by said body, at the time the hearing was scheduled, to have an
interest in the property adjacent to that property for which the variance is
being requested. The party requesting the variance shall make a presentation to
the City Commission as to why the section of this chapter from which it is
requesting a variance causes undue and unwarranted hardship or injustices to
it, and as to why the granting of the variance will not defeat the purpose and
intent of this chapter. All parties in interest will be given the opportunity
to question the applicant and to present information both in support of or
against the granting of the variance. The City Commission may require
submission of additional evidence of proof to substantiate the position of the
applicant, and may require additional data and tests which, in the opinion of
the City Commission, is necessary for adequate consideration of the request.
The City Commission may schedule additional hearings, if in the body's opinion,
they are necessary for adequate consideration of the request.
   (D)   Decision. The City Commission shall vote at its next regularly
scheduled meeting body upon the granting of the variance and a majority of the
whole body vote in favor of the variance.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 150.020 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No persons shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, or move a
building or make, install, alter, or repair improvements thereto, or construct
or install any fence, within the city without first making application and
obtaining a permit therefor from the City Commission.
   (B)   Ordinary upkeep, maintenance and minor repairs, alterations involving
no change in character or use and construction of a detached building of 100
square feet or less may be made without filing an application or obtaining a
permit, provided the repairs or construction shall not violate any of the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 95-02, passed 4-17-95; Am. Ord. 7, 2019,
passed - - ) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.021 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Form. An application for a permit, signed by the owner or his or her
authorized agent, shall be filed with the City Commission. The application
shall be accompanied by the plans and specifications required by this section
and shall provide information as may reasonably be required by the City
Architect for an intelligent understanding of the proposed work.
   (B)   Registered architects and engineers. Design for the construction or
substantial remodeling of any building allowed by zoning regulation within the
corporate limits of the city, shall be entrusted only to an architect or
professional engineer acting within the scope of his or her professional
registration under KRS Chapters 322 and 323. Single-family dwellings, and
accessory buildings or structures thereto, are hereby exempted from this
division (B).
   (C)   Plans and specifications.
      (1)   Two copies of plans and specifications shall accompany each
application, unless submitted electronically, then only one copy is required.
      (2)   Plans shall be drawn to scale with sufficient clarity to indicate
the nature and extent of work proposed.
      (3)   The plans and specifications together shall contain information
sufficient to indicate that the work proposed will conform to the provisions of
this chapter and all relevant deed restrictions, laws, ordinances, rules, and
regulations.
      (4)   The information shall be specific, and this chapter shall not be
cited in whole or in part, nor shall the term "legal" or its equivalent be used
as a substitute for specific information.
      (5)   Each set of plans and specifications shall give the address of the
work, the name and the business and home address of the owner and, and the name
and business address of the person who prepared and is responsible for them.
      (6)   The City Architect shall require drawings showing the location of
the proposed building or structure and of every existing building or structure
on the site or lot.
      (7)   All plans submitted for approval shall contain a drawing or plat
showing the lot plan, the location of the building on the lot, accurate
dimensions of the build and lot, and other information as may be required by
the City Architect.
   (D)   Time limitation. An application for a permit for any proposed work
shall be deemed to have been abandoned six months after date of issuance;
provided that, for cause, one or more extensions of time, for periods not
exceeding 120 days each, maybe be allowed by the City Commission.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
§ 150.022 PERMIT FEE.
   No permit shall be issued for building additions, external renovations or
new construction until the applicant shall have paid to the City Treasurer a
permit fee of $750, $350 of which shall be refunded to the applicant upon
completion of the proposed work in compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.023 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Examination of application. The City Architect shall examine or cause
to be examined each application or a permit and the plans, specifications, and
computations filed therewith and shall ascertain by the examination whether the
construction indicated and described will not adversely affect the public
safety, health, convenience, comfort, and general welfare of the residents of
the city. Is in accordance with the requirements of this chapter and all other
pertinent laws, ordinances and deed restrictions. Is in uniformity and harmony
of exterior design with existing structures on the lot on which the work is
proposed and surrounding lots, and is so located so as to not adversely affect
adjoining structures, uses, and operations.
   (B)   Action on application.
      (1)   Approval. The City Architect shall act upon an application for a
permit without unreasonable or unnecessary delay. If the City Architect is
satisfied that the work described in an application or a permit and the plans
and specifications filed therewith will not adversely affect the public safety,
health, convenience, comfort, and general welfare of the residents of the city,
conforms to the requirements of this chapter and all other pertinent laws,
ordinances and deed restrictions, is in uniformity and harmony of exterior
design with existing structures on the lot on which the work is proposed and
surrounding lots, and is so located so as to not adversely affect adjoining
structures, uses and operations, he or she shall so report to the City
Commission which, if it concurs in the City Architect's report, shall issue a
building permit.
      (2)   Disapproval. If the application for a permit and the plans and
specifications filed therewith, described work which does not conform to the
requirements of this chapter or other pertinent law, ordinances or deed
restriction, or does not contain sufficient information, the City Architect
shall so report to the City Commission, and, if the report of the City
Architect is concurred in by the City Commission, no permit shall be issued. In
such event the plans and specification shall be returned to the applicant with
the refusal to issue a permit. When requested by the applicant, the refusal
shall be in writing and shall contain the reasons therefor.
   (C)   Disposition of plans. One set of approved plans, specification, and
computations shall be retained by the City Architect, and one set of the
approved plans and specifications shall be returned to the applicant. The
latter set shall be kept at the site of work at all times during which the work
authorized thereby is in progress and shall be open to inspection at all
reasonable times by the City Architect or his or her authorized
representatives.
   (D)   Conditions of the permit. A permit issued shall be construed to be a
license to proceed with the work and shall not be construed as authority to
violate, cancel, alter or set aside any of the provisions of this chapter or
any other pertinent laws, ordinances or deed restrictions, not shall the
issuance of a permit prevent the City Architect from thereafter requiring a
correction of errors in plans or in construction, or of violations of this
chapter or any other applicable laws, ordinances, or deed restrictions. Any
permit issued shall become invalid unless the work authorized by it shall have
been commenced within six months of issuance, or, if after the work is
commenced, such work is not completed within four months; provided that, for
cause, one or more extensions of time, for periods not exceeding 30 days each,
may be allowed in writing by the City Commission.
   (E)   Posting of permit. No building operations requiring a permit shall be
commended until the permit holder or his or her authorized agent shall have
posted a building permit card, in a conspicuous place, near the front of the
premises, protected from the weather, and in a position as to permit the City
Architect to make entries thereon requesting inspection of the work. The card
shall be preserved and shall remain posted until completion of the work.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.024 RESPONSIBILITIES OF PERMIT APPLICANT.
   (A)   The applicant shall be responsible for seeing that adequate provisions
are made for drainage, both during the period of construction and after
construction is completed. He or she assumes the responsibility for assuring
the city that water will not be diverted from its natural flow to the detriment
of the land surrounding the building or structure which he or she is or has
constructed, modified, or demolished.
   (B)   The applicant is charged with the responsibility of seeing that no
debris, waste, or rubbish from the project for which this permit is issued is
discarded or abandoned within the boundaries of the city, either during, upon
or after the completion of the project.
   (C)   At all times, it shall be the duty of the applicant to maintain the
streets in a vicinity of the permit location in a clean condition. The street
shall not be allowed to become cluttered or covered with dirt or debris as a
result of the construction, and the like activities.
   (D)   Temporary storage facilities, portable toilets and dumpsters may be
utilized only if a permit has been granted therefor, and at no time may a
temporary storage facility be located other than on an impervious surface. Such
facilities at no time are permissible in the right of way or verge of a
property. Such facilities at no time may be utilized for more than 30 calendar
days.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.025 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Existing building. Before issuing a permit the City Architect may
examine or cause to be examined all building for which an application has been
received for a permit to enlarge, alter, or repair, move or demolish the
building.
   (B)   At site. The City Architect may inspect or cause to be inspected all
building and structures from time to time during the completion of the work for
which a permit was issued. He or she shall make a record of every examination
and inspection and of all violations of this chapter and of any other
applicable law, ordinance, and deed restriction.
   (C)   Procedure. The City Architect may make, or cause to be made, the
inspections called for by this section. He or she may accept reports of
inspectors of recognized inspection organizations, provided that after
investigation he or she is satisfied as to their qualifications and
reliability. No other approval called for by this section shall be based on the
reports unless the same is in writing and certified by a responsible officer of
such organizations.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
§ 150.026 COMPLETION OF PROJECT; REFUND OF PERMIT FEE.
   Upon completion of a project and the satisfaction of all sections of this
chapter and all other pertinent laws, ordinances and deed restrictions, those
funds on deposit with the city under §
150.022 of this chapter shall be refunded to the holder of the building permit.
No building shall be occupied or used until final approval of the project by
the City Architect.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
150.999
MINIMUM BUILDING STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS
§ 150.030 CHARACTER OF BUILDINGS; CONFORMITY WITH EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   No building shall be constructed, enlarged, or altered (including
painted, landscaped, or trimmed) within the city unless the color, design, and
materials are in conformity and harmony of external color, design and materials
with the existing structures on the lot in which the work is located and on
other lots in the surrounding area and is so located as not to adversely affect
surrounding structures, uses, and operations.
   (B)   No trailer, basement, tent, shack, garage, barn or other outbuilding
erected in the city shall at any time be used as a residence, temporarily or
permanently.
   (C)   Exterior walls, planes, and masses shall be of a residential scale
with sufficient openings for light, view, and air consistent with the
residential scale of the surrounding area. The City Architect reserves the
right to require that large planes be broken up with additional windows, or
offsets to maintain appropriate scale.
   (D)   The City Architect reserves the right to reject highly stylized
houses, additions, or remodels with overstated eclectic design elements, overly
mixed styles, or with insufficient stylistic theme or treatment.
   (E)   All exterior finish materials and colors shall meet the requirements
specified in §
150.032 of these standards. Use of a material that is not specified as either
approved or not approved in §
150.032, must submit to the City Architect, sample, product literature, or any
other supporting information which fully describes the material and its
physical properties.
   (F)   All visible portions of exterior foundations shall be constructed of
an approved foundation material.
      (1)   Only one material on the entire foundation unless otherwise
approved by the City Architect.
      (2)   Foundation walls on houses with sloping grades shall not step down
from the first floor level unless approved by the City Architect.
      (3)   The height of a foundation wall above grade shall be the minimum
required to meet code and achieve a proper visual "base" for the house.
      (4)   Excessive foundation heights to permit the construction of a walk-
out basement, or for other purposes, will not be approved.
   (G)   Fireplaces, chimneys and flues.
      (1)   Cantilevered frame chimneys will not be approved.
      (2)   The width and depth of chimneys shall be appropriately sized in
proportion to the size and height of the house.
      (3)   For direct venting gas fireplace boxes which protrude beyond the
exterior plane of the house, the frame structure must have a foundation to
match the house foundation. All exterior materials and finishes used to enclose
the fireplace boxes must match natural materials used on a conventional
chimney.
      (4)   Unenclosed metal flues shall be located on the rear or side roof
planes only, not including side roof planes that face the front yard. Metal
flues shall be a minimum of eight inches in diameter and shall be painted
black. Metal flues shall not extend higher than required by code.
   (H)   All exposed portions of a house above the foundation shall be of
finished materials, painted, stained, or pre-finished, as specified in §
150.032. Exterior architectural detailing shall be consistent with the overall
design theme of the house. Eaves, cornices, rakes, columns, pilasters, comer
boards, vents, window and door trim shall be consistent with the style of the
house or addition, and sized appropriately to the scale of the house or
addition.
   (I)   All windows and doors shall be of a style and size that is appropriate
to the design of the home. Aesthetic design consideration shall be given to the
location of all windows and doors which face the front of the house, or any
other street. The City Architect reserves the right to require different
styles, sizes or location of windows when, in his or her opinion, these changes
are necessary to maintain the aesthetic quality of the facade.
   (J)    Storm windows shall be compatible with the units that they cover and
with the style and color of the house. Excess ornamentation not consistent with
other ornamentation on the house is prohibited.
   (K)   Sun control devices such as awnings and trellises must be compatible
with the architectural style, character, and color of the house. The use of
such devices on the front of any home is prohibited.
   (L)   Where shutters are used, they shall be compatible with the style,
materials, and colors of the house and should be of proper proportions to the
windows they adjoin.
   (M)   Garage door design and detailing shall be consistent with the
architectural style of the house.
   (N)   Roof and roof accessories.
      (1)   Gutters and downspouts shall be pre-finished to match the adjacent
building material color.
      (2)   Highly visible roof flashing, shall be copper or pre-finished
aluminum to match the adjacent building material color.
      (3)   Attic ventilators and other roof penetrations shall be low profile
designs and shall be pre-finished to match the adjacent roof color.
      (4)   No roof penetrations, metal ridge vents, or accessories shall be
visible above the ridge of the roof nor shall they be located on the front roof
planes of the house. Fireplace chimneys are not regulated by this provision.
      (5)   Dormer windows and eyebrow windows are permitted as consistent with
the style of the house.
      (6)   Skylights will not be approved for the front roof plane.
   (O)   All front entry stoops and extended front porches shall be constructed
of finished materials to match the house.
      (1)   Band boards, handrails, and railings shall be painted wood, metal,
or composite railing of a design to match the character and style of the house.
      (2)   Brick porches with concrete floors will be approved if the concrete
is surrounded by brick.
      (3)   Wood steps to porches facing a street shall have closed and painted
risers.
      (4)   Stoops and extended front porches shall be supported on either
continuous foundations or on a minimum of 12-inch by 12-inch brick piers.
      (5)   Open areas under extended front porches of 12 inches or greater in
height above grade shall be concealed with lattice.
   (P)   Open porches and screened porches are permitted within setbacks on the
sides or rear of a home.
   (Q)   Patios and decks shall be located only in the rear of the house.
Exceptions to this may be granted by the City Architect if the requested
location is not highly visible from neighboring lots or the street. Decks shall
be constructed of approved materials as specified in §
150.032.
   (R)   Where a ramp is required for accessibility in accordance with the
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), the City Architect will approve ramps
that are consistent with the design and materials of the adjacent porch or
stoop. Like all exterior structures, these must be approved as to design and
location by the City Architect. The city reserves the right to require removal
of the ramp when the need no longer exists for that property.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.031 LOCATION OF BUILDINGS; APPURTENANCES.
   (A)   The building setbacks are for all building and appurtenances thereto,
shall conform to the current restriction of Louisville Metro planning and
zoning regulations at that location. Porches extending beyond the front wall of
the residence or in the building line, shall not be enclosed in any manner 24
inches above the floor of the same.
   (B)   Garages and carports attached to a dwelling shall become a part of the
dwelling and shall have the same zoning restrictions the dwelling. Unattached
garages must be located at least 15 feet from the dwelling and may be located
within two feet of the side property line.
   (C)   No structure may be erected on any lot easement.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.032 EXTERIOR MATERIALS AND COLORS.
   (A)   Foundations.
      (1)   Approved brick includes standard "modular" brick and oversize brick
in the red, red-orange, and brown color ranges. Other colors must be approved
by the City Architect. Other brick sizes or shapes will not be permitted.
Exposed concrete brick and concrete block, including decorative block, are not
permitted. Mortar colors shall be natural or tan. Other colors must be approved
by the City Architect.
      (2)   Stone foundations are permitted. Stone type, style, color range,
and sizes must be approved by the City Architect. Mortar shall be a natural
color.
      (3)   Where permitted, parged foundations shall consist of a smooth
cement coating applied over concrete block or concrete foundation walls. The
parging may be left unpainted.
      (4)   Other foundation materials will be considered on the bases of their
compatibility with approved materials. Synthetic stucco (exterior insulation
finish system) will not be permitted.
      (5)   Wood walls, piers, exposed concrete or concrete block, are not
approved for foundation walls, unless otherwise accepted by the City Architect.
   (B)   Siding and trim.
      (1)   Wood lap siding. Cedar, cypress, redwood, or similar decay
resistant wood sawn and planed smooth.
      (2)   Rough sawn cedar siding.
      (3)   Hardboard lap siding. A manufactured board siding in either smooth
or woodgrain finish.
      (4)   Cement fiber siding. A nailable cement fiber board siding in either
smooth or woodgrain finish.
      (5)   Vinyl siding. All vinyl siding is not approved or permitted.
      (6)   Panel (plywood) siding, also referred to T-111 composite plywood
siding is not approved or permitted.
      (7)   Partial masonry fronts (brick fronts, etc.) are permitted for
detached garages and accessory structures.
      (8)   All other siding materials will be considered on the basis of their
quality and compatibility with approved materials.
   (C)   Windows and doors.
      (1)   Painted wood windows and doors are permitted on all houses and
additions in styles consistent with the architecture of the house or addition.
      (2)   Aluminum and vinyl clad windows and doors are permitted on all
houses and additions in styles consistent with the architecture of the house or
addition.
      (3)   Pre-finished aluminum storm windows and doors are permitted on
houses or additions where the color can be integrated into the overall color
scheme.
      (4)   Solid vinyl windows may be permitted pending approval by the City
Architect. The City Architect has the right to request pictures and/or samples
of the requested window in order to judge its visual compatibility with other
windows in the house or neighborhood. Vinyl windows should be designed in
profiles that are similar to wood windows.
      (5)   Aluminum or steel windows and doors will be reviewed on a case by
case basis.
      (6)   Fabric covered awnings may be permitted on side or rear windows at
the discretion of the City Architect.
   (D)   Roofing and flashing.
      (1)   Cedar shake roofs are permitted on all houses and additions in
styles consistent with the architecture of the house or addition.
      (2)   Cedar shingle roofs are permitted on all houses and additions in
styles consistent with the architecture of the house or addition.
      (3)   Dimensional asphalt shingle roofs are permitted on all houses and
additions in styles consistent with the architecture of the house or addition.
      (4)   Standard asphalt shingle roofs (three-tab shingles) are permitted
on all houses and additions in styles consistent with the architecture of the
house or addition.
      (5)   Hand-formed copper or metal standing seam roofing is permitted for
incidental roofs such as stoops, small porches, eyebrows, curved dormer roofs,
or similar conditions. If a standing seam or other metal roofing is desired for
the main or accessory building, a variance is required.
      (6)   Membrane roofing is permitted for incidental flat roof area in non-
visible locations, or for a terrace above a room or porch area.
   (E)   Decks.
      (1)   Preservative treated southern yellow pine is permitted for all
decks.
      (2)   Redwood and cypress is permitted for all decks in lieu of treated
southern pine.
      (3)   Composite fiber decks are permitted in lieu of wood decks. Boards
shall be in similar size and general color to new or weathered wood decking.
      (4)   Raised (supported) concrete decks, metal decking, and untreated
wood (except as noted above) are not permitted.
      (5)   The city does not regulate deck construction including required
foundations, support posts, bracing, beams and joists. A permit from Louisville
Metro is required. The City Architect reserves the right to require minimum
visible structure sizes or spacing for aesthetic reasons. If the area under a
deck is used for storage of any type, it shall be enclosed by lattice or other
screening material as approved by the City Architect.
      (6)   Railing design and construction is regulated by the state building
code.
(Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
§ 150.033 ADDITIONS AND MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Lot development.
      (1)   Each structure or site improvement shall be sited to create a
proper setting within each lot, consistent with the density and setback of the
city, so as not to compromise the privacy of any other lot below the general
level enjoyed by other member of the community.
      (2)   Siting requirements.
         (a)   No addition shall extend beyond the setback limits established.
         (b)   The siting of additions shall not create a breach of privacy
between neighboring houses.
         (c)   New windows or access created by the addition or modification
shall not create a breach of privacy between neighboring houses.
   (B)   Architectural guidelines.
      (1)   All structures shall be of a size and use that is consistent with
the standards of the community. All structures and site improvements shall be
designed in styles, shapes, sizes, and massing to be of good proportions, well
balanced, and of good quality workmanship.
      (2)   To ensure consistency in the design of the house and minimize
visual disruption of the neighborhood, additions and modifications must match
the design characteristics of the house.
         (a)   The architectural style shall match the style of the house.
         (b)   The massing of the addition shall be similar in the use of
shapes to that of the house, but proportionately small to not overpower the
house.
         (c)   Foundations for the additions shall match the house foundation,
except for foundations of screen porches and fully glazed sunrooms that maybe
on wood or masonry piers.
         (d)   Roof styles and slopes shall be similar. Roof materials shall
match the house roof. Attic ventilators and other roof penetrations shall be
low profile designs and shall be pre-finished to match the adjacent roof color.
         (e)   Openings shall be required in additions, including windows, and
doors, in a similar fashion and extent as the original house.
         (f)   Windows and doors in additions shall be of matching material as
those in the house. Exceptions may be permitted at the discretion of the City
Architect.
         (g)   Architectural elements such as corner and rake boards, soffits,
eaves, window and door trim, and shutters shall match the style of the same
elements on the house.
         (h)   Gutters and downspouts to match the adjacent building material
color.
         (i)   All exterior finish materials and colors shall match the house.
Siding shall be the same profile and color as the house siding.
         (j)   Skylights will not be approved for the front roof plane of a
house.
         (k)   Specific requests for such will be considered on a case by case
basis.
         (l)   All materials and construction, including any not noted above,
shall meet the standards as specified in §§
150.030 and
150.032.
   (C)   Solarium additions shall be constructed of finished wood framing or of
a pre-finished metal consistent with the colors of the house.
   (D)   Room additions constructed from pre-finished, manufactured and/or pre-
assembled parts may be permitted if consistent with the exterior construction
and finish requirements in these standards. Standard factory plans and details
alone are not acceptable. Submittals must include drawings of the addition as
it will be constructed on the applicant's home, and showing the facade of the
home to which, the addition will be attached.
(Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
§ 150.034 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Each structure or site improvement shall be sited to create a proper
setting within each lot, consistent with the density and setbacks of the city,
so as not to unduly restrict the view, light, or breeze to or from neighboring
properties, and so as not to compromise the privacy of any other lot below the
general enjoyed by other members of the city. A temporary storage facility that
is being utilized solely for the purpose of moving into or out of a residence
may be utilized for a period not to exceed 72 hours, and any such facility must
at all times be situated on an impervious surface, and not within the right-of-
way or verge, or forward of the front corner of the house, if possible.
   (B)   Siting requirements.
      (1)   Accessory buildings, such as sheds and garages, are permitted on
all lots. These structures may be in no case larger than 600 square feet, and
be no higher than one-story tall unless otherwise approved by the City
Architect.
      (2)   The architectural style shall match the style of the house.
      (3)   Roof styles shall be similar and slopes shall be of a lower pitch
than the principal structure.
      (4)   Windows must be located on at least one side of the accessory
structure.
      (5)   Windows and doors in accessory buildings shall be similar in style
to those in the house.
      (6)   Architectural elements such as corner and rake boards, soffits,
eaves, window and door trim, and shutters shall be similar in style of the same
elements on the house.
      (7)   All exterior finish materials and colors shall match the appearance
of the house. Where the exact same siding or roofing cannot be used, the
profile (size and shape) of the proposed exterior siding shall match the
profile of the house siding. Note: plastic, metal and solid vinyl sheds are not
permitted.
      (8)   Small sheds may be set on piers on horizontal timbers and leveled
as required. Open areas under sheds should be screened from view with lattice
or landscaping.
      (9)   Larger accessory buildings shall be constructed on foundations to
match the house foundation.
      (10)   Greenhouses designed for growing plants in controlled conditions
must be approved by the City Architect in locations not generally visible from
the street or neighboring properties as the interior is visible from the
exterior and cannot always be controlled. The design and materials of such
structures shall meet the standards set in §
150.032 for solariums.
(Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
HOUSING REGULATIONS
§ 150.045 SCOPE OF HOUSING REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all buildings or any
appurtenance connected or attached to such buildings located within the city
including, but not limited to fences, driveways, private roads, sidewalks, and
swimming pools.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
§ 150.046 PEST INFESTATIONS AND EXTERMINATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any dwelling or dwelling unit within the city to be
infested with rats, mice, roaches or other pests, or infected with any
contagious disease. Pest infestations which develop subsequent to the
initiation of human occupancy within a dwelling unit shall be eradicated and
all pests exterminated in accordance with the applicable regulations prescribed
by the City Commission and the Director of the Louisville Metro Health and
Wellness.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 7,. 2019, passed - - )
§ 150.047 WILD OR UNDOMESTICATED ANIMALS.
   Wild or undomesticated animals are prohibited. No owner, occupant, or person
having control or management of any land within the city shall permit or
maintain on any premises or adjacent right-of-way as pets, or for profit, any
livestock, poultry, ducks, fowl or wild or undomesticated animals.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
150.999
Cross reference:
   Animals, see
Ch. 90
§ 150.048 PROHIBITED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Internal.
      (1)   The interior of every dwelling and dwelling unit, within the city,
including habitable and non-habitable rooms, halls, basements, cellars, attics,
closets, and storage spaces shall be kept clean and free from accumulations of
dirt, filth, rubbish, garbage, or similar matter and shall be kept from vermin
and rodent infestation.
      (2)   The occupant or occupants shall have the responsibility for meeting
the obligation created herein with respect to all interior areas within his or
her or their exclusive control.
   (B)   External.
      (1)   The exterior of every dwelling and dwelling unit within the city,
including all courts, yards, and conterminous property, shall be kept clean and
free from accumulation of dirt, filth, leaves, rubbish, garbage, uncontained
trash, scrap or abandoned building materials or similar matter, dead and
decaying trees, stumps of trees previously felled, and shall be kept free from
vermin and rodent infestation. The occupant or occupants shall have the
responsibility for meeting the obligation created in this division (B) with
respect to all exterior areas within his or her or their exclusive control.
      (2)   All dwellings, fences, gates and outbuildings or other structures
in a dilapidated or unsafe condition shall be removed or repaired. All sheds
and auxiliary structures attached to dwellings which create blind rooms or
which overcrowd the land shall be removed. All year structures, fences, and
rubbish which obstruct light and air, harbor rats and vermin, or create an
undesirable environment shall be removed. All courts, yards, and conterminous
property around every dwelling or dwelling unit shall be properly graded and
drained to keep surface water from draining into or beneath the dwelling or
dwelling unit. Water shall not be allowed to stand in drainless pools anywhere
about the premises.
      (3)   No owner, occupant or person having control or management of any
land within the city shall permit or maintain on any premises or adjacent -
rights-of-way any excessive growths of grass or wild or noxious weeds to a
greater height than ten inches on the average; nor any accumulations of dead
weeds, grass, brush, or leaves.
      (4)   Open compost piles are discouraged as they may be an attraction for
rats or other vermin.
      (5)   Open or inadequately protected holes in the ground of sufficient
size to risk injury to humans or pets are prohibited.
      (6)   The Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996 contain provisions that
void certain prohibitions regarding antennas. Certain types of antennas are
permitted as listed below as well as locations.
         (a)   An antenna that is designed to receive direct broadcast
satellite service, including direct-to-home satellite services, that is one
meter (39 inches) or less in diameter.
         (b)   An antenna that is designed to receive video programming
services via multi-point distribution services, including multi-channel, multi-
point distribution services, instructional television fixed services, and local
multi-point distribution services, and that is one meter (39 inches) or less in
diameter or diagonal measurement.
         (c)   An antenna that is designed to receive television broadcast
signals.
         (d)   An antenna should be mounted directly on the rear of the house,
on a roof plane facing the rear, or on the back side of a chimney, to the
extent feasible that the antenna is not visible from the street.
         (e)   Mounted on the ground in the rear yard, to the extent feasible
that the antenna is not visible from the street.
         (f)   Mounted on a pole, an existing other structure, or a tree in the
rear yard, to the extent feasible that the antenna is not visible from the
street.
         (g)   If no clear signal may be obtained in any of the above
locations, an antenna may be mounted on the ground or, if necessary, on a pole
in the front yard, or on the front plane of the house.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 4-19-93; Am. Ord. 96-01,
passed 6-17-96; Am. Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
§ 150.049 EXTERNAL MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
   (A)   External maintenance.
      (1)   All foundations, exterior walls, floors, and roofs of every
dwelling within the city shall be free of holes, large cracks, and any loose
and deteriorated material, and shall be maintained so as to be weather-tight
and rodent-proof.
      (2)   All exterior walls, woodwork, and exposed metal portions of every
dwelling that are inadequately protected against the weather due to lack of
paint, or other approved protective coating, shall be painted or otherwise
protected against decay, corrosion, or deterioration.
   (B)   Gutters and downspouts.
      (1)   All roofs of every dwelling shall be equipped with gutters and
downspouts which ensure the storm water shall be disposed of on the property,
in such a manner as to not adversely affect the adjoining property.
      (2)   All gutters, downspouts, and connecting drains shall be kept free
of the accumulation of material which would tend to impede or obstruct the
normal flow of water therein.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
§ 150.050 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNER OR LANDLORD.
   (A)   General obligations. Except as specifically provided in other section
of this chapter all the obligations set forth in this chapter are the
responsibility of the owner, regardless of whether the owner is also the
occupant of the property subject to this chapter.
   (B)   Pest extermination. Every owner of a dwelling containing one or more
dwelling units shall be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rats,
or other pests therein or on the premises when the infestation extends to
stairways, halls, basements, yards, or other common areas.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to eliminate the
responsibility of an occupant, as provided in §
150.051 of this chapter, unless the infestation extends to two or more dwelling
units within the building.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 2008- , passed - - ; Am. Ord. 7, 2019,
passed - - )
§ 150.051 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OCCUPANTS.
   Every occupant of a dwelling within the city containing a single dwelling
unit shall be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rats, or other
pests there in or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit in
multiple dwellings shall be responsible for the extermination if his or her
dwelling unit is the only one infested.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
§ 150.052 VACANT DWELLINGS; PROCEDURE FOR SECURING.
   (A)   When any dwelling or dwelling unit within the city becomes vacant and
unoccupied, the owner thereof shall immediately cause it to be securely locked
to prevent the entrance there in of unauthorized persons, and the owner shall
keep such structure securely locked until it is again let for occupancy. If the
dwelling or dwelling unit thereafter becomes open, so that any unauthorized
person may enter, the owner shall cause the structure to be closed at all
outside openings by securely covering all such openings with a type of covering
approved by the City Architect, in such a manner as to preclude entrance by
unauthorized persons or animals. Provided, however, one door facing the street
may remain uncovered, so long as it shall be securely locked, to allow the
owner or persons authorized by him or her to enter.
   (B)   If any dwelling or dwelling unit is found to be vacant, unoccupied,
and open so that it may be entered freely by unauthorized persons or animals,
the City Commission may order and direct the owner of the structure to close it
securely in the manner provided for in division (A) of this section by
delivering to the owner a written notice requiring him or her to securely close
the structure within five days of the date of the notice. The mailing of the
notice to the owner at his last known address shall be deemed notice to him or
her. If the owner fails to complete the closing of any such dwelling or
dwelling unit within the five-day period, the City Commission may, without
further notice to the owner, cause the dwelling unit to be securely closed; and
the cost of the closing shall be a lien against the property.
   (C)   If the full amount of the cost of any closing carried out by the City
Commission pursuant to division (B) of this section is not paid to the city by
the owner within 30 days after the closing is completed, the city shall have
prepared and cause to be signed and sworn to by the City Architect an affidavit
showing the cost and expense incurred for the work and the date, place, or
property on which said work was done. The affidavit shall be recorded in the
office of the Jefferson County Clerk and shall constitute a lien upon the
property, which shall remain in full force and effect for the amount due as
principal, plus accrued interest at the rate of 8% per annum from the date of
the completion of the work, plus any court costs necessary or the collection
thereof, until full payment is made.
   (D)   All affidavits recorded in accordance with this section shall be prima
facie evidence that all legal formalities have been complied with and that all
the work involved has been properly and satisfactorily done; and this shall be
full notice to all persons concerned that the amount of the statement, plus
interest, constitutes a charge against the property designated and described
therein and that the same is due and collectible as provided by law.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
SWIMMING POOLS
§ 150.065 SWIMMING POOL RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain a
swimming pool, hot tub, whirlpool, or spa in the front or side yards of any lot
within the city.
   (B)   There shall be allowed in the city only permanent in-ground swimming
pools, constructed in a rear yard and subject to the limitation hereinafter set
forth.
   (C)   No inflatable domes, covers, or other raised structures over a
swimming pool shall be permitted.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.066 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall construct or maintain a swimming pool or outdoor hot
tub, whirlpool, or spa as provided for herein without first making application
and obtaining a permit therefor from the City Commission.
   (B)   No swimming pool shall be constructed nor shall a permit therefor be
granted unless there is a provided drain in the pool which drain shall be
connected underground directly to the sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.067 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   An application for a permit, signed by the owner or his authorized agent,
shall be filed with the City Architect, or Commissioner responsible for that
function. It shall provide information as may be reasonably required for a
clear understanding of the proposed work and its effect on the surrounding
properties. The written application shall contain at least the following
information:
   (A)   The kind of pool, outdoor hot tub, whirlpool or spa, herein referred
to as "pool" to be constructed;
   (B)   The pool's overall dimensions of length, width, and depth, and a
description of any proposed exterior lighting, including provisions for the
shielding of the lighting;
   (C)   A plat, drawn to scale, showing the installation's location in
relation to existing structures, easements, boundary lines and existing or
proposed fences. The plat shall also show the location of any proposed exterior
lighting;
   (D)   Its effect, if any, on adjacent properties which can be reasonably
expected to result from the construction;
   (E)   The provisions to be made for supplying the pool with potable water
and for the drainage thereof;
   (F)   The substance which will be used as fill and the anticipated
disposition of any earth-removed;
   (G)   When construction is expected to begin and length of time it will take
before it is completed.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
§ 150.068 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Other requirements. Any person requesting a permit must, prior to
requesting a permit from the city, obtain all other permits which may be
required.
   (B)   Examination of application. The City Architect shall examine or cause
to be examined each application and the information furnished in connection
therewith; shall ascertain by such examination that the construction of the
pool will not adversely affect the public safety, health, convenience comfort
and general welfare of the city and will be in accordance with the requirements
of this chapter and all other pertinent laws, ordinances and deed restrictions.
   (C)   Action on application.
      (1)   Approval. The City Architect shall act upon the application for a
permit without unreasonable or unnecessary delay. If satisfied that the pool,
hot tub, whirlpool, or spa as described in the application and information
furnished in connection therewith will not adversely affect the public safety,
health, convenience, comfort and general welfare of the residents of the city;
conforms to the requirements of this chapter and all other pertinent laws,
ordinances, and deed restrictions, he or she shall so report to the City
Commission which, if it concurs, shall issue a permit therefor.
      (2)   Disapproval. If the application for a permit and the information
filed therewith describe work that does not conform to the requirements of this
chapter or all other pertinent laws, ordinances and deed restrictions, or does
not contain sufficient information, the City Architect shall so report to the
City Commission, and, if the report is concurred in by the City Commission, no
permit shall be issued and the applicant shall be so notified. The refusal
shall be in writing and shall contain the reasons therefor.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
§ 150.069 FENCES AROUND SWIMMING POOLS.
   All pools or pool areas within the city shall be enclosed by fence at least
48 inches in height or as prescribed the latest edition of Kentucky Residential
Building Code. Any gate or other entry through the fence must be capable of
self closing and self-locking.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
150.999
PULL-OFFS; STREET CURBS
§ 150.080 PERMIT FOR “PULL-OFFS.”
   (A)   No person shall construct or permit any paved or gravel "pull-offs,"
parking areas, curved or circular drive to be constructed or maintained in the
front yard of any residential lot within the city without first obtaining a
permit therefor from the City Commission.
   (B)   No permit referred to in division (A) of this section shall be issued
until a plan of the "pull-off," parking area, or curved or circular drive
showing the size, location, and type of construction is delivered to and
approved by the City Commission and the body determines that the construction
will improve the free passage and flow of traffic on the roadway adjacent
thereto; is essential to the mil use and enjoyment of the property which the
"pull-off," parking area or curved or circular drive are designed to serve; and
is in keeping with and does not detract from the surrounding neighborhood.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.081 PERMIT FOR STREET CURB.
   (A)   No person shall construct or permit any curb to be constructed or
maintained at the edge of any paved portion of any street within the city
without first obtaining a permit therefor from the City Commission.
   (B)   No permit referred to in division (A) of this section shall be issued
until a plan of the curb showing the location and material, or preapproved curb
and type of construction is delivered to the City Commission and the Commission
determines that the curb will be not more than six inches in height; is located
in line with existing curbs at or near the location; will not impede surface
water drainage; and will be in keeping with and will not detract from the
surrounding neighborhood.
   (C)   Seneca Gardens has preapproved a detail of a limestone curb that is
acceptable everywhere in the city such that it complies with the conditions in
division (B) above.
   (D)   Upon failure of any person to comply with these regulations, the City
Commission may send city employees or agents of the city upon the property to
remedy the situation and the city shall have a lien against the property for
the reasonable value of labor and materials used in so doing.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
150.999
FLOODLIGHTS
§ 150.095 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to install or permit any permanent
flood, mercury vapor, or similar light exceeding 150 watts per bulb to be
installed on any lot within the city without first making application and
obtaining a permit therefor from the City Commission.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.096 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Any application for a permit, signed by the person desiring to install a
permanent flood, mercury vapor, or similar light shall be filed with the City
Commission, together with the information as may be required by the City
Commission, including:
   (A)   A plat showing the location of the proposed light in relation to
existing structures on the lot;
   (B)   The type, name, manufacturer and candle power of the proposed light as
well as a picture or likeness of the proposed light;
   (C)   The written consent of all occupants of premises adjoining the lot on
which the light is to be installed, indicating when the consent is conditioned
upon adequate "shielding" of the light;
   (D)   What provisions are to be made from "shielding" the light from
adjoining premises, when appropriate; and
   (E)   The height of the light above ground immediately below the light
location and in relation to street elevation at the front of the house.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
§ 150.097 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Approval. If the City Commission is satisfied that the proposed light
will not adversely affect the safety, health, convenience, comfort and general
welfare of the city and the premises adjoining the lot on which the light is to
be located, it shall issue a permit for the light, which permit shall specify
what "shielding" of the light, if any, shall be supplied by the applicant.
   (B)   Disapproval. If the application is incomplete for the City Commission
determines that the proposed light would adversely affect the safety, health,
convenience, comfort, and general welfare of the city or the premises adjoining
the lot on which the light is to be located or that the owners of all adjoining
premises have not consented to the installation of the light, the City
Commission shall disapprove the permit and inform the applicant of the decision
along with the reasons for disapproval.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
FENCES
§ 150.100 PERMITTED AND PROHIBITED FENCES.
   The general styles of fences permitted and prohibited are defined in (A)
through (E) below:
   (A)   LANDSCAPE FENCES. These are lower fences of an open design allowing
visibility through them. They utilize natural, unfinished wood and are designed
to run along distances with the contours of the land. Common examples: wood
split rail fences, board rail fences, picket and convex picket fences. Picket
style fences made of iron, powder-coated aluminum, and vinyl will be
considered. The pickets may be spaced no more than two inches apart.
   (B)   PRIVACY FENCES. These are generally higher fences of a closed design,
limiting or preventing visibility through them. They are typically made of
natural unfinished wood, but finished wood and vinyl fences will be considered.
Designs include solid board fences, board-on-board fences and lattice fences.
   (C)   PATIO (GARDEN) WALLS. These are actually house wall extensions
constructed as a free standing wall with matching material as the house. These
walls are typically trimmed with a cap and a solid end.
   (D)   MULTIPLE FENCE STYLES. Using more than one style of fence in the same
yard is generally not permitted. Exceptions may be considered by the City
Commission for special circumstances.
   (E)   PROHIBITED FENCE TYPES. The following fences are not permitted: chain
link, barbed wire, utility wire fences with metal posts, stockade fences
(pointed wood picket privacy fence made from split untreated pine or other soft
wood), and post and wire fences (fences with wood posts and rectangular mesh
wire.)
(Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
§ 150.101 MAXIMUM FENCE HEIGHT.
   The maximum permitted height for each type of fence is shown below. Maximum
heights relate to the top of the pickets, top of the framed lattice, or the top
of the rails in a rail fence.
   (A)   Landscape fences. Forty-eight inches. Top of convex picket may extend
to 54 inches and black iron or black aluminum fences may extend up to 60
inches.
   (B)   Privacy fences. Seventy-two inches.
   (C)   Patio walls. No limit in height, but must integrate appropriately with
the architecture of the house.
(Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
§ 150.102 FENCE LOCATIONS.
   (A)   In any rear yard, a fence may enclose a portion of the yard or the
entire rear yard. A REAR YARD is defined as that portion of the lot beginning
at the rear corners of the house and extending to the side and rear property
lines.
   (B)   In any yard, the City Commission my allow limited extensions for
fences directly adjacent to a house wall up to a side door located not more
than halfway between the rear and front comers.
   (C)   On flag lots, pie-shaped lots or any lot where the house is located
substantially farther back than adjacent houses on either side, the City
Commission may, at its discretion, use the rear plane of the adjacent houses to
define the acceptable front setback for the fence on either side of the subject
house; but in no case as far forward as the front comers of the subject house.
(Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
§ 150.103 FENCE ORIENTATION AND ADJOINING FENCES.
   Fences with supporting structure on one side shall be oriented with the
finished board side facing out from the yard. Where a new fence is constructed
on a lot with an adjacent fence already in place at a property line, the new
fence shall abut the end of the existing fence, using the existing fence as a
portion of the yard enclosure.
(Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
§ 150.104 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   The permit required by §
150.020 shall be required in order to construct any fence.
(Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
§ 150.200 APPLICABILITY.
   The City of Seneca Gardens intends to allow for the use of solar energy
systems in the community, whether an accessory to principal uses, or integrated
with principal uses. Solar energy systems shall be compatible in character and
appearance with the principal structure and surrounding neighborhood,
particularly as seen from public roads.
(Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
§ 150.201 APPEARANCE AND MATERIALS.
   Solar collectors shall be neutral in color and generally matching the roof
color of the principal or accessory structure. All such devices shall have the
following characteristics:
   (A)   Not be plastic or other non-UV stable material.
   (B)   Include frames, where applicable, or anodized aluminum or painted
steel.
   (C)   Where devices are encased in glass, the glass hall be non-reflective
tempered glass.
(Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
§ 150.202 LOCATION.
   Solar collectors shall be subject to the following requirements in regards
to their location. Solar collectors should be situated to minimize or negate
any solar glare onto nearby properties or roadways, without unduly impacting
the functionality or efficiency of the solar energy system.
   (A)   Yards.
      (1)   Ground or pole mounted solar collectors are permitted in the rear
yard and side yards, and are prohibited from being located in the front yard.
      (2)   Ground or pole mounted solar collectors are permitted to encroach
the setbacks and shall be located at least two feet from the property line.
      (3)   Ground or pole mounted solar collectors shall not exceed an overall
height of ten feet when oriented at maximum tilt, from the ground level to the
top of the top edge of the tallest panel.
      (4)   Ground or pole mounted solar collectors will count against the
total lot coverage. The footprint of the structure will be determined by the
horizontal plane at the ground generated by extending all parts of the
structure vertically down.
      (5)   All power transmission lines from a ground or pole mounted solar
collector to any building or other structure, shall be located underground and/
or in accordance with the state building code or electrical code, as
appropriate.
   (B)   Roof mount.
      (1)   Roof mounted solar collectors are permitted to be located on
principal or accessory structures.
      (2)   Roof mounted solar collectors shall be located in a manner that
cannot be seen from public roads.
      (3)   Roof mounted solar collectors shall be considered part of the
building for the purpose of yard setbacks, lot coverage and building height
restrictions.
      (4)   All power transmission lines from a roof mounted solar collector to
any building or other structure, shall be located in a manner that screens it
from public view, and shall be in accordance with the state building code or
electrical code, as appropriate.
(Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
§ 150.203 ANCILLARY SOLAR EQUIPMENT.
   Ancillary solar equipment shall be located inside of a building or screened
from public view from a public right-of-way. All ancillary solar equipment
shall be screened without compromising the effectiveness of the solar
collectors. Solar storage batteries that are included as part of the solar
energy system shall be placed in a secure container or enclosure that complies
with the requirements of the building code, and when no longer in use, shall be
disposed of in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations.
(Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
§ 150.204 ABANDONMENT AND REMOVAL.
   A ground or pole mounted solar energy system is considered to be abandoned
if it has not been in operation for a period of 12 months, in which case the
solar energy system shall be removed by the owner within 120 days from the
expiration of that 12-month period. If the owner fails to remove the abandoned
solar energy system within 120 days, the city may pursue a legal action to have
the system removed at the owner's expense.
(Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
§ 150.205 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   The permit required by §
150.020 shall be required in order to install a solar energy system.
(Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
§ 150.206 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   An application for a permit, signed by the owner or his authorized agent,
shall be filed with the City Architect, or Commissioner responsible for that
function. It shall provide information as may be reasonably required for a
clear understanding of the proposed work and its effect on the surrounding
properties. The written application shall contain at least the following
information:
   (A)   The kind of solar energy system (ground mounted, pole mounted, or roof
mounted) to be installed.
   (B)   The solar energy system's overall dimensions of length, width, and
depth.
   (C)   A plat (ground or pole mounted) or roof plan (roof mounted) drawn to
scale, showing the installation's location in relation to existing structures,
easements, boundary lines and existing or proposed fences as applicable.
(Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
§ 150.207 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Other requirements. Any person requesting a permit must, prior to
requesting a permit from the city, obtain all other permits which may be
required .
   (B)   Examination of application. The City Architect shall examine or cause
to be examined each application and the information furnished in connection
therewith; shall ascertain by such examination that the construction of the
solar energy system will not adversely affect the public safety, health,
convenience comfort and general welfare of the city and will be in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter and all other pertinent laws, ordinances
and deed restrictions.
   (C)   Action on application.
      (1)   Approval. The City Architect shall act upon the application for a
permit without unreasonable or unnecessary delay. If satisfied that the solar
energy system as described in the application and information furnished in
connection therewith will not adversely affect the public safety, health,
convenience, comfort and general welfare of the residents of the city; conforms
to the requirements of this chapter and all other pertinent laws, ordinances,
and deed restrictions, he or she shall so report to the City Commission which,
if it concurs, shall issue a permit therefor.
      (2)   Disapproval. If the application for a permit and the information
filed therewith describe work that does not conform to the requirements of this
chapter or all other pertinent laws, ordinances and deed restrictions, or does
not contain sufficient information, the City Architect shall so report to the
City Commission, and, if the report is concurred in by the City Commission, no
permit shall be issued and the applicant shall be so notified. The refusal
shall be in writing and shall contain the reasons therefor.
(Ord. 7, 2019, passed - - )
NUISANCES
§ 150.220 AUTHORIZATION.
   This chapter is also adopted pursuant to the authority granted by KRS
381.770 in order to establish procedures for the abatement of public nuisances,
including but not limited to dilapidated buildings and structures.
(Ord. passed - -11)
Editor’s note:
   KRS 381.770 repealed 2016 Ky. Acts ch. 86, sec. 18, effective January 1,
2017.
§ 150.221INITIAL DETERMINATION.
   Potential violations of KRS 381.770 initially shall be investigated and
determined by the City Commission. The City Commission is authorized to consult
with and seek the counsel and assistance of such certified building inspectors,
engineers and other experts as the City Commission may deem reasonably
necessary in order to determine the existence of a violation of KRS 381.770.
Further, the City Commission and its designees hereby are authorized to enter
upon any property on which it reasonably suspects a violation to exist in order
to determine and confirm the relevant facts.
(Ord. passed - -11)
Editor’s note:
   KRS 381.770 repealed 2016 Ky. Acts ch. 86, sec. 18, effective January 1,
2017.
§ 150.222 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   In the event and at such time as the City Commission may deem a violation of
KRS 381.770 to exist within the city, the Mayor shall notify the responsible
party or parties (as identified in KRS 381.770) of the violation, in writing,
delivered personally to the responsible party or mailed by first class mail,
postage prepaid, to the current address of such party as same appears upon the
available official records of the city and/or the records maintained by the
Jefferson County Property Valuation Administrator. In the event the alleged
violation pertains to a structure or building which has become unfit or unsafe
for human habitation, occupancy, or use, or permitting conditions to exist in
the structure which are dangerous to the health or safety of the occupants of
the structure, the occupants of neighboring structures, or other residents of
the city, such notice shall identify the violation and instruct the responsible
party to remedy the violation or make adequate provision therefor by written
agreement with and to the satisfaction of the City Commission, within 30 days
following the date of personal delivery or postmark of the notice. The notice
further shall state that, in the absence of such remedy or adequate provision
for same, demolition or other appropriate steps will be scheduled immediately
thereafter (unless a request for a hearing before the Property Committee is
filed in accordance with the procedures set forth below). In all other cases,
the notice shall identify the nature of the violation and shall require the
responsible party to remedy the violation or make adequate provision for same
by written agreement with and to the satisfaction of the City Commission,
within seven days of the date of personal service or the postmark of such
notice. All written notices by the Mayor pursuant to this section clearly shall
apprise the responsible party of their right to a hearing before the Property
Committee, as set forth below.
(Ord. passed - -11)
Editor's note:
   KRS 381.770 repealed 2016 Ky. Acts ch. 86, sec. 18, effective January 1,
2017.
§ 150.223 CREATION OF PROPERTY COMMITTEE.
   There is hereby created the Seneca Gardens Property Committee, the purpose
and function of which is to hear and determine all appeals taken with reference
to violations arising under §
150.221. The Committee shall be comprised of not less than three or more than
five individual residents of Seneca Gardens, who shall not be sitting City
Commissioners or the Mayor. Members of the Committee shall be appointed by the
Mayor subject to the approval of a majority of the City Commission, and may be
removed by a vote of not less than 60% of the City Commission, including the
vote of the Mayor. The Mayor and the City Commission may attend and participate
in all meetings of the Committee, but may not vote. The City Attorney shall be
an ex-officio, non-voting member of the Committee, who is authorized to chair
Committee meetings at the Committee's request, and rule upon evidentiary
matters. The City Commission may fix a reasonable amount of compensation for
Committee members, and may reimburse reasonable and necessary costs incurred by
the Committee.
(Ord. passed - -11)
§ 150.224 RIGHT TO APPEAL AND HEARING.
   In all cases involving potential demolition of structures, the responsible
party may request an appeal hearing before the Seneca Gardens Property
Committee for purposes of contesting the City Commission's determination of
such violation. Such request for appeal and hearing must be made in writing,
must specify the grounds thereof, and must be delivered to the City Clerk and
the Mayor prior to the expiration of 30 days following the receipt or postmark
of the written notice of such violation. In all cases not involving the
potential demolition of structures, such hearing may be requested at any time
prior to 15 days following the receipt or postmark of the written notice of
such violation.
(Ord. passed - -11)
§ 150.225 CONDUCT OF HEARINGS.
   All hearings before the Property Committee pursuant to this subchapter shall
be conducted within 60 days following the request for same at either a regular
or special called meeting of the Committee, scheduled for a reasonable time.
The Committee shall give public notice in accordance with KRS Chapter 424, as
well as written notice to the responsible party and the Mayor at least one week
prior to the hearing and shall decide the issues within 60 days following the
hearing. The Mayor shall forthwith transmit to the Property Committee all
papers and reports constituting the record upon which the action was taken. At
the hearing, the City Commission, or its designee, shall present to the
Property Committee such testimony and other evidence as the City Commission
shall deem pertinent and appropriate to allow the Board to adequately review
and consider the City Commission's initial determination. The responsible
party, or his attorney, may present such relevant evidence as he or she may
wish, subject to control by the Property Committee with regard to issues of
admissibility, Further, any interested party may appear and enter his or her
appearance, and all shall be given an opportunity to be heard. Hearsay
testimony may be admissible for purposes of this hearing. The ruling of the
Property Committee may be appealed to the Jefferson Circuit Court in accordance
with the provisions of KRS 100.347.
(Ord. passed - -11)
§ 150.226 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   In the event that the responsible party shall fail to request an appeal and
hearing upon the City Commission's ruling within the period allowed, or upon
final confirmation of the City Commission's ruling by the Property Committee,
the Jefferson Circuit Court or any other court properly exercising jurisdiction
over a proper appeal of the City Commission's ruling, the City Commission
shall, as soon as practicable thereafter, proceed with the demolition or other
abatement, either directly or by means of contract with qualified third
parties.
(Ord. passed - -11)
§ 150.227 LIEN AND LIABILITY FOR COSTS OF ABATEMENT.
   The city shall have a lien against the subject property for the reasonable
value of labor and materials used in abating the nuisance, as provided in KRS
381.770(6). The owner of the property shall be personally liable to the city
for the amount of the lien, including all interest and other charges, and the
city may bring a civil action against such owner and shall have the same
remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt owed, in accordance with KRS
831.770(7).
(Ord. passed - -11)
Editor's note:
   KRS 381.770 repealed 2016 Ky. Acts ch. 86, sec. 18, effective January 1,
2017.
CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
§ 150.235 CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. An administrative body created and acting under
the authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act.
      CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A city police officer, safety officer, citation
officer, or other public law enforcement officer with the authority to issue a
citation.
      ORDINANCE. An official action of a local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and
shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by the city
legislative body which embodies all or part of an ordinance.
(Ord. -, 2016, passed - -16)
§ 150.236 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby created, pursuant to KRS 65.8801 through 65.8839, within the
city a Code Enforcement Board which shall be composed of five members, all of
whom shall be at least 21 years of age and a resident of the city for a period
of at least one year prior to the creation of the Board and shall reside there
throughout the term in office.
(Ord. -, 2016, passed - -16)
§ 150.237 AUTHORITY.
   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial orders and
impose civil fines as a method enforcing city ordinances when a violation of
the ordinance has been classified as a civil offense. The Code Enforcement
Board shall not have the authority to enforce any ordinance the violation of
which constitutes an offense under any provision of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes, including, specifically, any provision of the Kentucky Penal Code and
any moving motor vehicle offense.
(Ord. -, 2016, passed - -16)
§ 150.238 MEMBERS; APPOINTMENTS, TERMS, REMOVALS, AND OATH.
   (A)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be appointed by the
executive authority of the city, subject to the approval of the legislative
body.
   (B)   (1)   The initial appointment to a five-member Code Enforcement Board
shall be as follows:
         (a)   One member appointed to a one-year term;
         (b)   Two members appointed to a two-year term; and
         (c)   Two members appointed to a three-year term.
      (2)   All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of three years. A
member may be reappointed, subject to the approval of the legislative body.
   (C)   The executive authority may appoint, subject to the approval of the
legislative body, two alternate members to serve on the Code Enforcement Board
in the absence of regular members. Alternate members shall meet all of the
qualifications and shall be subject to all of the requirements that apply to
regular members of the Code Enforcement Board.
   (D)   Any vacancy on the Board shall be filled by the executive authority,
subject to approval of the legislative body, within 60 days of the vacancy. If
the vacancy is not filled within that time period, the remaining Code Board
members shall fill the vacancy.
   (E)   (1)   A Code Board member may be removed from office by the executive
authority for misconduct, inefficiency, or willful neglect of duty.
      (2)   The executive authority must submit a written statement to the
member and the legislative body setting forth the reasons for removal.
   (F)   All members of the Code Enforcement Board must, before entering upon
the duties of their office, take the oath of office prescribed by § 228 of the
Kentucky Constitution.
   (G)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall serve without
compensation.
   (H)   No member of the Code Enforcement Board may hold any elected or
nonelected office, paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city.
(Ord. -, 2016, passed - -16)
§ 150.239 BOARD ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS AND QUORUM; ALTERNATE MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Board shall annually elect a Chair from among its members. The
Chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member of the
Board.
   (B)   Regular meetings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be held on the
second Tuesday of each month, if needed. Meetings other than those regularly
scheduled shall be special meetings held in accordance with the requirements of
the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (C)   All meetings and hearings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be held
in accordance with the requirements of KRS 65.8815(5) and the Kentucky Open
Meetings Act.
   (D)   The affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of the Board shall be
necessary for any official action to be taken.
   (E)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Code Enforcement
Board and the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Ord. -, 2016, passed - -16)
§ 150.240 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Any member of the Code Enforcement Board who has any direct or indirect
financial or personal interest in any matter to be decided shall disclose the
nature of the interest and shall disqualify himself or herself from voting on
the matter in which he or she has an interest and shall not be counted for
purposes of establishing quorum; the member shall be recused prior to any
discussion of the matter.
(Ord. -, 2016, passed - -16)
§ 150.241 JURISDICTION.
   The Code Enforcement Board shall have jurisdiction to enforce and shall
enforce any city ordinances and code provisions.
(Ord. -, 2016, passed - -16)
§ 150.242 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The City of Seneca Gardens Code Enforcement Board shall have the following
powers and duties:
   (A)   To adopt rules and regulations to govern its operations and the
conduct of its hearings;
   (B)   To conduct hearings to determine if there has been a violation of an
ordinance over which it has jurisdiction;
   (C)   To subpoena alleged violators, witnesses, and evidence to its
hearings. Subpoenas issued by the Code Enforcement Board may be served by any
Code Enforcement Officer;
   (D)   To take testimony under oath. The Chairperson shall have the authority
to administer oaths for the purpose of taking testimony;
   (E)   To make findings of fact and issue orders necessary to remedy any
violation of a city ordinance or code provision which the Board is authorized
to enforce; and
   (F)   To impose civil fines, as authorized, on any person found to have
violated an ordinance over which the Board has jurisdiction.
(Ord. -, 2016, passed - -16)
§ 150.243 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Board.
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings before the Code Enforcement Board shall only
be initiated by the issuance of a citation by a Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C) below, if a Code Enforcement
Officer believes, based on his or her personal observation or investigation,
that a person has violated a city ordinance, he or she shall issue a verbal
warning requiring immediate remediation, or issue a notice of violation to the
offender allowing the offender a specified period of time to remedy the
violation without fine.
      (2)   If the offender fails or refuses to remedy the violations within
the time specified, the Code Enforcement Officer is authorized to issue a
citation.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is reason to believe
that the violation presents a serious threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare, or, if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of the
violation will be irreparable or irreversible.
   (D)   The citation issued by the Code Enforcement Officer shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The date and time the offense was committed;
      (4)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (5)   The section of the code or the number of the ordinance violated;
      (6)   The name of the Code Enforcement Officer;
      (7)   The civil fine that will be imposed for the violation if the person
does not contest the citation;
      (8)   The maximum civil fine that may be imposed if the person elects to
contest the citation;
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (10)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation, or contest the citation, within the time allowed, the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board to contest the citation and that the determination that the
violation was committed shall be final.
   (E)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall notify the Code Enforcement Board by delivering the citation to
the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (F)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven days of the date of issuance by either paying the civil
fine or requesting, in writing, a hearing before the Code Enforcement Board to
contest the citation. If the person fails to respond to the citation within
seven days, the person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing
and the determination that a violation was committed shall be considered final.
   (G)   If the alleged violator does not contest the citation within the time
prescribed, the Code Enforcement Board shall enter a final order determining
that the violation was committed and impose the civil fine set forth in the
citation. A copy of the final order shall be served on the person guilty of the
violation.
(Ord. -, 2016, passed - -16)
§ 150.244 HEARING; NOTICE; FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing has been requested, the Code Enforcement Board shall
schedule a hearing. The hearing shall be conducted at the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the Code Enforcement Board unless the Board and the party
agree to a different time.
   (B)   Not less than seven days before the date of the hearing, the Code
Enforcement Board shall notify the requester of the date, time, and place of
the hearing. The notice may be given by first class mail; by personal delivery;
or by leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence with any
individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed
of the contents of the notice.
   (C)   Any person requesting a hearing before the Code Enforcement Board who
fails to appear at the time and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to
have waived the right to a hearing to contest the citation and the
determination that a violation was committed shall be final. The Code
Enforcement Board shall enter a final order determining the violation as
committed and shall impose the civil fine set forth in the citation. A copy of
the final order shall be served upon the person guilty of the violation.
   (D)   All testimony shall be taken under oath and recorded. Testimony shall
be taken from the Code Enforcement Officer, the alleged violator, and any
witnesses to the violation offered by the Code Enforcement Officer or alleged
violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but fundamental due process
shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (E)   The Code Enforcement Board shall, based on the evidence, determine
whether a violation was committed. If it determines that no violation was
committed, an order dismissing the citation shall be entered. If it determines
that a violation was committed, an order shall be issued upholding the citation
and either imposing a fine up to the maximum authorized by subchapter or other
ordinance, or requiring the offender to remedy a continuing violation, or both.
   (F)   Every final order of the Code Enforcement Board shall be reduced to
writing, which shall include the date the order was issued. A copy shall be
furnished to the person named in the citation. If the person named in the
citation is not present when the final order is issued, the order shall be
delivered in accordance with the procedures set forth in division (B) above.
(Ord. -, 2016, passed - -16)
§ 150.245 LEGAL COUNSEL.
   (A)   Each case before the Code Enforcement Board shall be presented by an
attorney selected by the city or by a Code Enforcement Officer for the city.
   (B)   The City Attorney may either be counsel to the Code Enforcement Board
or may present cases before the Code Enforcement Board, but in no case serve in
both capacities.
(Ord. -, 2016, passed - -16)
§ 150.246 APPEALS; FINAL JUDGMENT.
   (A)   (1)   An appeal from any final order of the Code Enforcement Board may
be taken to the Louisville Metro District Court within 30 days of the date the
order is issued.
      (2)   The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint and a
copy of the Code Enforcement Board's order in the same manner as any civil
action under the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   If no appeal from a final order of the Code Enforcement Board is filed
within the time period set in division (A) above, the Code Enforcement Board's
order shall be deemed final for all purposes.
(Ord. -, 2016, passed - -16)
§ 150.247 ORDINANCE PERMIT FEE AND FINE SCHEDULE.
Permit Fee and Civil Fine Schedule
Ordinance  Description    Proposed Fee/ First Offense Second  All Others
Reference                 Refund                      Offense
                          Default to
71.41      Parades        Louisville    -             -       -
                          Requirements
91.10      Excavation and -             -             -       -
           Construction
93.20      Blasting       -             -             -       -
           Permit
93.02(A)   Fireworks      -             -             -       -
           Tree Removal
95.01      in Right of    $0/$0         -             -       Up to $2,000
           Way
150.006    Fences         $0/$0         50            50      100
150.007    Lot            $0/$0         500           500     500
           Subdivision
150.008    Building Limit $0/$0         500           500     500
           Building
150.02     Addition/      $750/$350     200           200     200
           Exterior
           Renovation
150.022    Permit Fee     See above     -             -       -
150.023(E) Posting Permit $0/$0         50            50      50
-          Driveway/Patio $0/$0         -             -       -
           add or replace
-          Deck           $0/$0         -             -       -
150.024(D) Temporary      $0/$0         50            50      50
           Storage
150.024(D) Dumpster       $0/$0         50            50      50
150.024(D) Portable       $0/$0         50            50      50
           toilet
150.026    Building       $0/$0         200           200     200
           Occupancy
150.030(R) ADA Ramps      $0/$0         50            50      50
           Construction
150.031    on Lot         $0/$0         200           200     200
           Easement
           Wild or
150.047    Undomesticated $0/$0         50            50      50
           Animals
150.065    Swimming Pool,
150.066    Hot Tub, Spa,  $200/$100     -             -       -
           Etc.
150.069    Fence around   $0/$0         100           100     100
           Pool
           Front Yard
150.08     Parking Pads   $500/$100     100           100     100
           (Pull Offs),
           Circular Drive
150.081    Street Curbing $0/$0         50            50      50
150.095    Floodlights    $0/$0         50            50      50
           Solar
150.205    Collection     $500/$250     100           100     100
           System
 
   Violations of ordinances that are enforced by the City Code Enforcement
Board shall be subject to the following schedule of civil fines:
   (A)   (1)   If a citation for a violation of an ordinance is not contested
by the person charged with the violation, the penalties set forth in this
division (A) shall apply.
      (2)   However, the Board may waive all or any portion of a penalty for an
uncontested violation, if in its discretion the Board determines that the
waiver will promote compliance with the ordinance in issue.
Violation             First Offense Second Offense All Others
Animals               $25           $50            $100
Building Codes        $100          $125           $150
Nuisance              $10           $25            $50
Licensing             $50           $75            $100
Signage               $10           $25            $50
Littering             $10           $25            $50
Parking               $10           $25            $50
Streets and Sidewalks $10           $25            $50
 
   (B)   If the citation is contested and a hearing before the Code Board is
required, the following maximum penalties may be imposed at the discretion of
the Code Board.
Violation             First Offense Second Offense All Others
Animals               $100          $200           $300
Building Codes        $500          $750           $1,000
Nuisance              $75           $150           $250
Licensing             $500          $750           $1,000
Signage               $50           $100           $700
Littering             $50           $100           $200
Parking               $50           $100           $200
Streets and Sidewalks $50           $100           $200
(Ord. -, 2016, passed - -16)
§ 150.248 LIENS; FINES, CHARGES, AND FEES.
   (A)   The city shall possess a lien on property owned by the person found by
a final, nonappealable order of the Code Enforcement Board, or by a final
judgment of the court, to have committed a violation of a city ordinance for
all fines assessed for the violation and for all charges and fees incurred by
the city in connection with the enforcement of the ordinance.
   (B)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The lien
shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear
interest until paid.
   (C)   The lien shall take precedence over all other subsequent liens, except
state, county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial
proceedings.
   (D)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (A) above, the person
found to have committed the violation shall be personally responsible for the
amount of all fines assessed for the violation and for all charges and fees
incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of the ordinance. The
city may bring a civil action against the person and shall have the same
remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt.
(Ord. -, 2016, passed - -16)
§ 150.249 LIENHOLDER NOTIFICATION SYSTEM.
   The city shall obtain and maintain priority over previously filed liens, as
provided in §
150.248, in accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   Individuals and entities, including but not limited to lienholders,
may register with the city to receive electronic notification of final orders
entered pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   In order to receive the notification, the registrant shall submit the
following information to the City Clerk:
      (1)   Name;
      (2)   Mailing address;
      (3)   Phone number; and
      (4)   Electronic mailing address.
   (C)   A registrant may use the electronic form provided on the city web site
to submit the information required by division (B) above. It shall be the
responsibility of the registrant to maintain and update the required contact
information with the city. The city shall inform a registrant of any evidence
received that the electronic mailing address is invalid or not functional so
that the registrant may provide an updated electronic mailing address.
   (D)   Once per month the city shall send electronic mail notification of all
final orders entered pursuant to this subchapter since the last date of
notification to each party registered pursuant to this section. The
notification shall provide an electronic link to the city code enforcement
database located on the city web site. The database shall include the following
information regarding each final order:
      (1)   The name of the person charged with a violation;
      (2)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (3)   The last known mailing address for the owner of the premises where
the violation occurred;
      (4)   A copy of the full citation;
      (5)   A copy of the full final order; and
      (6)   The status of the final order regarding its ability to be appealed
pursuant to this subchapter.
   (E)   If an appeal is filed on a final order pursuant to this chapter, the
city shall send electronic mail notification to all registrants.
   (F)   Within ten days of the issuance of a final order pursuant to this
subchapter, the city shall update its code enforcement database to reflect the
issued final order, and shall post the notification required by division (D)
above containing an updated link to the code enforcement database on the city
web site.
   (G)   The city shall maintain the records created under this section for ten
years following their issuance.
(Ord. -, 2016, passed - -16)
§ 150.250 LIENS.
   (A)   A lienholder of record who has registered pursuant to §
150.249(B) may, within 45 days from the date of issuance of notification under
§ 159.249(D):
      (1)   Correct the violation, if it has not already been abated; or
      (2)   Pay all civil fines assessed for the violation, and all charges and
fees incurred by the city in connection with enforcement of the subchapter,
including abatement costs.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action if necessary under §
150.243.
   (C)   The lien provided by §
150.248 shall not take precedence over previously recorded liens if:
      (1)   The city failed to comply with the requirements of §
150.249 for notification of the final order; or
      (2)   A prior lienholder complied with division (A) above.
   (D)   A lien that does not take precedence over previously recorded liens
under division (C) above shall, if the final order remains partially
unsatisfied, continue to take precedence over all other subsequent liens except
liens for state, county, school board and city taxes.
   (E)   The city may record a lien before the 45-day period established in
division (A) above expires. If the lien is fully satisfied prior to the
expiration of the 45-day period, the city shall release the lien in the county
clerk's office where the lien is recorded within 15 days of satisfaction.
   (F)   Failure of the city to comply with §
150.249 and this section, or failure of a lien to take precedence over
previously filed liens as provided in division (C) above, shall not limit or
restrict any other remedies the city has against the property of the violator.
(Ord. -, 2016, passed - -16)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §
150.001, or any provision of this chapter, shall be subject to the following
penalties:
   (A)   See attached schedule of permit fee/refund (if applicable) and
penalties for non-compliance.
   (B)   If any work is done within Seneca Gardens city limits that damages
city property or city owned infrastructure the property owner having the work
done, or entity performing work within the city shall be responsible for repair
or replacement cost.
(Ord. 90-09, passed 12-17-90; Am. Ord. passed 1-21-08; Am. Ord. 7, 2019, passed
- - )
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS AND DEANNEXATIONS
      
II.   BOND ISSUES
      
III.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
IV.   FRANCHISES
      
V.   STREET NAME CHANGES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS AND DEANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
Ord. Date         Description
No.  Passed   
                  Annexing certain property beginning at a point common to the boundary line of
—  8-4-41       Seneca Gardens and the City of Louisville, approximately 138 feet Southwest of
                  the Southwesterly line of Valletta Road.
—  12-5-41      Annexing the following two properties:
                     Tract 1. Beginning at a stake in the Easterly line of the tract conveyed by
                Amelia K. Wetstein to the Wetstein Land Company by deed recorded in Deed Book
                  1245 Page 507 in the office of the Clerk of the County Court of Jefferson
                  County, Kentucky.
                   Tract 2. Beginning at a point in the easterly line of Valletta Road, at the
                  intersection with the Northerly line of Taylorsville Road.
                  Deannexing certain property beginning at a point in the Northerly line of
—  9-22-43      Taylorsville Road approximately 16½ feet West of the Northwesterly corner of
                  Broadmeade Road and Taylorsville Road.
—  8-26-46      Annexing the following two properties:
                     Tract 1. Beginning at the Southeast corner of the tract of 4.92 acres
                conveyed to Adolph Reutlinger by deed dated August 10, 1927, and recorded in
                  Deed Book 1288, page 296, in the office of the County Court Clerk of Jefferson
                  County, Kentucky.
                     Tract 2. Beginning at a point in the southwesterly line of Seneca Park
                where said line is intersected by the northeasterly line of Seneca Valley
                  Drive (formerly Gladstone Avenue).
                 
 
TABLE II: BOND ISSUES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
—      8-26-46     Providing for the issuance and public sale of $54,000 city
                     sewer bonds.
—      9-15-97     Providing for the issuance and public sale of $420,000
                     city economic development revenue bonds.
                    
 
TABLE III: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
1-1953   1-5-53         Authorizing the city to negotiate a contract with the
                        City of Louisville for fire service and protection.
                        Authorizing the approval of a contract to incorporate
1-1983   9-19-83        the city for purposes of police protection, into the
                        jurisdiction of the Police Department of the City of
                        Louisville.
                        The city adopts and enters into the Interlocal
94-01    6-21-94        Agreement for Jefferson County League of Cities Cable
                        Commission.
                       
 
TABLE IV: FRANCHISES
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Approving the renewal of the nonexclusive franchise to
                     construct, operate and maintain a community antenna
4-1988   3-27-89     television (CATV) system within the city pursuant to the
                     authority and provisions of Ordinance No. 78-003 and held
                     by Storer Communications of Jefferson County, Inc.
                     Approving and awarding a renewal franchise agreement for
                     community antenna television (CATV) services of TCI TKR of
                     Jefferson County , Inc., d/b/a TKR Cable of Greater
                     Louisville, and including provisions for insurance,
95-04    11-20-95    reports and records, consumer practices, consumer
                     protection measures, and construction, and construction-
                     related practices, franchise fees, and operation
                     procedures, and health, safety, and welfare measures,
                     providing an effective date, and repealing any existing
                     CATV franchise.
                     Approving a transfer of control of Intermedia Partners of
99-02    9-21-99     Kentucky, L.P. from Intermedia Capital Management VI, LLC
                     to Insight Communications Company, L.P.
                    
 
TABLE V: STREET NAME CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
                        Changing the name of Weitstein from Valetta Road
—      8-28-42        westwardly to the town limits near Carolina Avenue to
                        Seneca Drive to conform in name to the same street
                        which now runs eastwardly from Valletta Road.
                       
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section              Code Section
6.050                    32.47
6.955 - 6.975            33.04
18A.225(2)               113.03
18A.228                  113.03
Ch. 31                   34.16
41.240(4)                33.05
42.450 - 42.495          33.04
43.050                   33.04
Ch. 45A                  34.16
Ch. 56                   34.16
Ch. 61                   32.21
61.168                   34.16
61.169                   34.16
61.805 - 61.850          32.21
61.832(2) to (4)         91.25
61.870                   34.01
61.870 - 61.882          31.36
61.870 - 61.884          34.16,
                         34.17
61.872(4)                34.06
61.872(5)                34.07
61.872(6)                34.08
61.874(1) - (3)          34.12
61.874(3), (4)           34.13
61.874(5)                34.14
61.874(6)                34.15
61.878                   34.01,
                         34.16
61.880                   34.09
61.880(1)                34.16
61.884                   34.11
62.020                   31.01
65.067                   31.01
65.120                   Ch. 72
65.8801 - 65.8839        150.236
65.8815(5)               150.239
Ch. 83A                  31.20
83A.010(3)               10.02
83A.010(6)               10.02
83A.030(2)               30.02
83A.040(1)               31.21
83A.040(2)               31.21
83A.040(2)(a)            31.21
83A.040(2)(d)            31.21
83A.040(3)               31.21
83A.040(4)               32.01
83A.040(5)               32.02
83A.040(6)               31.21,
                         32.02
83A.040(7)               31.21,
                         32.02
83A.040(8)               31.21,
                         32.02
83A.040(9)               31.03
83A.050                  31.20,
                         32.01
83A.060(1)               32.35
83A.060(2)               32.36
83A.060(3)               32.37
83A.060(4)               32.48
83A.060(5)               32.39
83A.060(6)               32.22
83A.060(7)               32.38
83A.060(8)               32.40,
                         32.41
83A.060(9)               32.42
83A.060(10)              32.43
83A.060(11)              32.44
83A.060(12)              32.45
83A.060(13)              32.45
83A.060(14)              32.46
83A.060(15)              32.47
83A.070                  31.02
83A.075                  31.02
83A.080(1)               31.35
83A.080(3)               31.03,
                         31.35
83A.080(4)               31.20
83A.080(5)               31.20
83A.085(1) - (3)(e)      31.36
83A.090                  32.04
83A.130 - 83A.150        31.21
83A.140(1)               30.01
83A.140(2)               30.02
83A.140(3)               32.03
83A.140(4)               31.21,
                         32.20
83A.140(5)               32.03
83A.140(6)               32.04
83A.140(7)               32.21
83A.140(8)               32.03
83A.175                  32.02
91A.010(6)               33.01
91A.010(7)               33.01
91A.010(8)               10.02
91A.020                  33.02
91A.030                  33.03
91A.040(1)               33.04
91A.040(4)               33.04
91A.040(5)               33.04
91A.040(7) - (13)        33.04
91A.050                  33.04
91A.060                  33.05
91A.200                  33.11
91A.210                  33.10
91A.220                  33.11
91A.230                  33.12
91A.240                  33.13
91A.250                  33.14
91A.260                  33.15
91A.270                  33.16
91A.280                  33.17
91A.290                  33.18
92.310 (Repealed)        110.04
100.347                  150.225
Ch. 116                  31.20
118.305(7)               31.21,
                         32.02
Ch. 121                  31.20
131.010(6)               113.04
131.190                  34.16
132.285                  35.01
134.800                  35.04
134.810                  35.04
Ch. 154                  34.16
174.100                  91.25
174.100(1)               91.26
174.100(2)               91.27
174.100(3)               91.28
174.100(4)               91.29
174.100(5)               91.30
186.190                  72.22
189.020                  71.27
189.290                  71.25
189.330(8)               71.02
189.338                  70.15
189.450(5)               72.03
189.450(6)               72.03
189.580                  71.15
189.635(8)(b)1.a. to e.  34.01
189.725                  72.08
189.930                  71.26
189.990(1)               72.99
190.010(8)               92.04
196.099                  34.01
226.010                  112.01
226.020                  112.02
226.030                  112.07
226.040                  112.03,
                         112.04
226.050                  112.04
226.060                  112.08
226.070                  112.03
226.080                  112.06
226.090                  112.06
226.100                  112.08,
                         112.08
226.990(1)               112.99
226.990(3)               112.99
227.550                  92.04
257.100(1) - (4)         90.06
257.100(4)               90.01
281.011 (Repealed)       92.04
Ch. 322                  150.021
Ch. 323                  150.021
355.1-107                10.01
376.275(1)               72.22
376.275(2)               72.22
                         92.04,
381.770 (Repealed)       150.220 -
                         150.222
381.770(1)(a) (Repealed) 92.01
381.770(1)(b) (Repealed) 92.01
381.770(1)(c) (Repealed) 92.01
381.770(2) (Repealed)    92.04
381.770(3) (Repealed)    92.04
381.770(6) (Repealed)    92.04,
                         150.227
381.770(7) (Repealed)    92.04,
                         150.227
                         32.42,
                         33.04,
Ch. 424                  33.14,
                         33.15,
                         150.225
424.120                  33.04
424.220                  33.04
424.220(6)(b)            33.04
436.600                  90.04,
                         90.99
446.010(1)               10.02
446.010(2)               10.02
446.010(9)               10.02
446.010(10)              10.02
446.010(12)              10.02
446.010(13)              10.02
446.010(15)              10.02
446.010(17)              10.02
446.010(18)              10.02
446.010(23)              10.02
446.010(26)              10.02
446.010(27)              10.02
446.010(28)              10.02
446.010(31)              10.02
446.010(33)              10.02
446.010(37)              10.02
446.010(39)              10.02
446.010(43)              10.02
446.010(46)              10.02
446.010(47)              10.02
446.010(49)              10.02
446.020(1)               10.03
446.020(2)               10.03
446.030                  10.04
446.050                  10.05
446.060                  10.06
446.080(1)               10.03
446.080(3)               10.03
446.080(4)               10.03
446.090                  10.07
446.100                  10.08
446.110                  10.09
446.140                  10.01
520.010                  34.01
525.125                  90.03
525.130(1) - (3)         90.03
525.130(4), (5)          90.99
                         
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.       Date Passed Description
-              1-25-40     150.008
-              2-19-40     130.01
-              8-4-41      TSO, Table I
-              12-5-41     50.01,
                           TSO, Table I
-              8-28-42     TSO, Table V
-              9-22-43     TSO, Table I
                           11.01,
-              8-26-46     TSO, Table I,
                           TSO, Table II
-              8-17-92     150.008
-              9-21-92     150.008
1-1953         1-5-53      TSO, Table III
1-1983         9-19-83     TSO, Table III
4-1988         3-27-89     TSO, Table IV
90-02          2-19-90     31.35
90-03          2-19-90     32.20,
                           32.21
90-04          2-19-90     31.21,
                           32.04
90-05          7-16-90     33.01,
                           33.03
                           50.10,
90-06          7-16-90     50.11,
                           50.12,
                           50.13
                           95.01,
90-08          12-17-90    95.02,
                           95.03,
                           95.04
                           150.002 -
                           150.007,
                           150.009,
                           150.010,
                           150.020 -
                           150.026,
                           150.030,
                           150.031,
90-09          12-17-90    150.045 -
                           150.052,
                           150.065 -
                           150.069,
                           150.080,
                           150.081,
                           150.095 -
                           150.097,
                           150.999
92-01          3-16-92     31.35
92-03          10-26-92    91.15
                           35.02,
92-05          12-21-92    35.03,
                           150.006
93-01          4-19-93     150.048
93-03          7-19-93     95.15 -
                           95.17
93-04          10-18-93    95.17
93-05          12-20-93    35.01
94-01          6-21-94     T.S.O. III
94-03          11-21-94    Adopting Ordinance
94-04          11-21-94    35.01
94-05          12-19-94    Ch. 36
95-01          3-20-95     113.01 -
                           113.05
95-02          4-17-95     150.020
95-04          11-20-95    T.S.O. IV
95-05          11-20-95    35.01
96-01          6-17-96     150.048
96-03          11-18-96    35.01
- -            9-15-97     T.S.O. II
97-03          12-15-97    35.01
98-02          11-16-98    35.01
99-02          9-21-99     T.S.O. IV
99-03          12-28-99    35.01
00-02          12-18-00    35.01
2005-02        12-12-05    35.01
-              1-21-08     150.999
2008-          - -         150.050
-              - -11       150.220 -
                           150.227
2013-01        2-18-13     150.008
-, 2016        - -16       150.235 -
                           150.250
                           150.001 -
                           150.010,
                           150.020 -
                           150.026,
                           150.030 -
                           150.034,
                           150.045 -
7, 2019        - -         150.052,
                           150.065 -
                           150.069,
                           150.080,
                           150.081,
                           150.100 -
                           150.104,
                           150.200 -
                           150.207
1, Series 2023 3-20-23     32.21
                          
 
 
Comprehensive Ordinance List
Publisher's Note: The following table lists all ordinances passed by the City
of Seneca Gardens beginning August 2023. The table includes links to the
ordinances, as maintained in PDF format. For other legislation, including
ordinances passed prior to August 2023, please contact the City of Seneca
Gardens.
 
Ordinances that amend the Code and are not yet effective have their
identifiying information highlighted in yellow. Changes made by those
ordinances are not incorporated into the text of the Code until the amending
ordinances are effective. Ordinances that do not affect the code have been
grayed out.
 
Jump to:
2023 Ordinances
2023 Ordinances
Ord. No. Adopt. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No. Adopt. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
--       7-17-2023   Repealing Chapter 71: Traffic Rules
--       7-17-2023   Amending Chapter 91: Streets and Sidewalks
--       7-17-2023   Repealing Chapter 93: Fireworks; Fire Prevention
--       7-17-2023   Amending Chapter 95: Trees
--       7-17-2023   Amending Chapter 150: Building and Housing Regulations
                    
                    
 
 
