SILVER GROVE, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-8 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 25-0301, passed 4-3-2025; and
State legislation current through KRS, 2024 Acts
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
Adopting Ordinance
ORDINANCE NO. 19-0303
AN ORDINANCE, ADOPTING THE REVISED, AMENDED, RESTATED CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF SILVER GROVE, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, KRS 83A.060(11) requites the examination of the code of ordinances
for consistency with state law;
   WHEREAS, the present code of ordinances for the City of Silver Grove,
Kentucky is inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form
and substance; and
   WHEREAS, the City Counsel of the City of Silver Grove has authorized the
examination of the code of ordinances of the City of Silver Grove, Kentucky for
revision of same for consistency with state law.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SILVER GROVE, CAMPBELL COUNTY,
KENTUCKY AS FOLLOWS:
   Section I
The general ordinances of the City of Silver Grove, Kentucky as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and complied in book form are hereby adopted as,
and shall constitute, the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Silver Grove,
Kentucky"
   Section II
Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section I shall consist of the following
Titles:
   Chapter
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
            10.   Rules of Construction; General Penalty
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
            30.   Mayor-Council Plan
            31.   City Officials
            32.   City Council
            33.   Finance and Revenue
            34.   Public Records
            35.   Personnel Policies
            36.   Code of Ethical Conduce
            37.   Taxation
            38.   Code Enforcement Board
            39.   Plans and Policies
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
            50.   Garbage
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
            70.   General Regulations
            71.   Traffic Rules
            72.   Parking Regulations
            73.   Bicycles and Motorcycles
            74.   Traffic Schedules
            75.   Parking Schedules
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
            90.   Animals
            91.   Streets and Sidewalks
            92.   Nuisances
            93.   Fireworks; Fire Prevention
            94.   Littering
            95.   Parks
            96.   Emergency Telephone Service
            97.   Landlord-Tenant Regulations
   TITLE XX: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
            110.   Occupational and Business License Fees
            111.   Alcoholic Beverages
            112.   Insurance Premium Tax
            113.   Pawnbrokers
            114.   Yard Sales
   TITLE XII: GENERAL OFFENSES
            130.   Offenses Against City Regulations
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
            150.   Building Regulations
            151.   Comprehensive Plan
            152.   Property Maintenance Code
            153.   Flood Damage Prevention
            154.   Subdivision Regulations
            155.   Zoning
   Section III
All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in said Code of
Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from the effective date of this ordinance
except as they are included in whole or in part in said Code; provided, such
repeal shall not effect any offense committed or penalty incurred, or any right
established prior to the effective date of this ordinance, nor shall said
repeal effect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money,
annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises, or granting special
rights to certain persons, authorizing special improvements, authorizing the
issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of
real or personal property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication
of land to public use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other
public places; nor shall said repeal effect any other ordinance of a temporary
or special nature or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the
Code.
   Section IV
This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its adoption,
approval and publication as is required by law.
PASSED by City Council of the City of Silver Grove, Campbell County, Kentucky
assembled in regular session.
First Reading:   March 7, 2019   
Second Reading:   April 4, 2019
                                       Neal Bedel /s/  
                                       MAYOR NEAL BEDEL
ATTEST:
Ronda Sandfoss /s/  
RONDA SANDFOSS CITY CLERK
ORDINANCE NO. 19-0801
CITY OF SILVER GROVE, KENTUCKY
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE
CITY OF SILVER GROVE, CAMPBELL COUNTY, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2019 S-l Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Silver Grove; and
   WHEREAS, said supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
jiince the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances, and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on,
or make reference to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes, and
   WHEREAS, it is the desire of the City Council of the City of Silver Grove,
Kentucky to update section of the Code of Ordinances with the changes of the
law of the Cornmonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SILVER GROVE, CAMPBELL COUNTY,
KENTUCKY AS FOLLOWS:
   Section I
   That the 2019 S-l Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Silver
Grove, Campbell County, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be, and the same hereby is,
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section II
   This ordinance shall be in foil force and effect from and after its
adoption, approval and publication as is required by law.
   PASSED by City Council of the City of Silver Grove, Campbell County,
Kentucky assembled in regular session.
 
First Reading:   August 1, 2019   
Second Reading:   September 5, 2019
 
                                       Neal Bedel /s/  
                                       MAYOR NEAL BEDEL
ATTEST:
Ronda Sandfoss /s/
RONDA SANDFOSS CITY CLERK
ORDINANCE NO. 20-0801
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF SILVER GROVE, CAMPBELL COUNTY, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2019 S-l Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Silver Grove; and
   WHEREAS, said supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances, and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on,
or make reference to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes, and
   WHEREAS, it is the desire of the City Council of the City of Silver Grove,
Kentucky to update sections of the Code of Ordinances with the changes of the
law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SILVER GROVE, CAMPBELL COUNTY,
KENTUCKY AS FOLLOWS:
      Section I
   That the 2019 S-2 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Silver
Grove, Campbell County, Kentucky, and the 2020 S-3 Supplement to the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Silver Grove, Campbell County, Kentucky as submitted
by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto,
be, and the same hereby are, adopted by reference as if set out in its
entirety.
Section II
   This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its
adoption, approval and publication as is required by law.
PASSED by City Council of the City of Silver Grove, Campbell County, Kentucky
assembled in regular session.
First Reading:   8/6/2020   
Second Reading:   9/3/2020
   Neal Bedel /s/  
                                       MAYOR NEAL BEDEL
ATTEST:
Ronda Sandfoss /s/
RONDA SANDFOSS
CITY CLERK
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
Cross-reference:
   City Council, see
Ch. 32
   Code Enforcement Board, see
Ch. 38
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Silver Grove Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted. Title heads, chapter heads, and section and division heads or
titles, and explanatory notes and cross-references, do not constitute any part
of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to those
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code, shall
denote the City of Silver Grove irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNCIL. The city legislative body.
(KRS 83A.010(5))
   COUNTY. Campbell County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor.
(KRS 83A.010(6), KRS 91A.010(4))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, includes all those incorporated or formed by
authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Council member.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes,
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, or camelid
species.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Silver Grove, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH.
(KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited PARTNERSHIPS.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers, and other persons with similar authority
to make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, and mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even-numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected, and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN. Includes affirmed in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Exists when there is an unexpired part of a term of
office without a lawful incumbent therein, when the person elected or appointed
to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has been no
election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies whether
the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the state,
county, city, or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to that meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or notice shall mean the
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include those acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part;
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council, as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment,
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances
until Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.32 should be used by the city to amend, add, or repeal a chapter, section,
or division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(KRS 83A.090)
   (C)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see KRS 61.870 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty of fine or imprisonment is otherwise provided, the
offender shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500
or imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both, for each offense. Each day
any violation shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 81-03-01, passed 3-3-1981)
Statutory reference:
   Fine amount for ordinance violations authorized by state law, see KRS
83A.065 and 534.040
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY COUNCIL
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
35.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
36.   CODE OF ETHICAL CONDUCT
      
37.   TAXATION
      
38.   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
      
39.   PLANS AND POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the “Mayor-
Council Plan”, and this chapter, together with KRS 83A.010 to 83A.120, govern
the city.
(KRS 83A.130(1))
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by other officers and employees as are provided for by statute or
city ordinance.
(KRS 83A.130(2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of not less than six nor more than
12 members as prescribed by ordinance. An ordinance amending the number of City
Council members shall be:
      (1)   Enacted and filed with the Campbell County Clerk by no later than
the first Wednesday after the first Monday in November of the year preceding
the year in which the legislative offices will appear on the ballot; and
      (2)   Crafted in such a manner that the amended number of City Council
members becomes effective on January 1 of the year following the election of
the number of City Council members specified in the amending ordinance.
(KRS 83A.030(1))
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
   
31.04   Bond
Elected Officials
   
31.15   Election procedure
   
31.16   Mayor
   
31.17   Council members
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.30   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.31   City Clerk
   
31.32   City Treasurer
   
31.33   Zoning Administrator/Floodplain Manager
City Employees
   
31.45   City attorney
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH.
   Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the discharge of duties
of his or her office, take the following oath: “I do solemnly swear (or affirm,
as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of this Commonwealth,
and the Constitution of the United States, and be faithful and true to the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue a citizen thereof, and that I
will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the office of           ,
according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or affirm) that, since the
adoption of the present Constitution, I, being a citizen of this United States,
have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this State, nor out of it,
nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel with deadly weapons,
nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor aided or assisted any
person thus offending, so help me God,” as established by § 228 of the Kentucky
Constitution.
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   City Council shall by ordinance fix the compensation of every elected
city officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in which the
officer is elected. An elected officer’s compensation shall not be changed
after his or her election or during his or her term of office.
(KRS 83A.070(1))
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of Mayors and Council members
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department for Local Government
shall compute by the second Friday in February of every year the annual
increase or decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using
1949 as the base year in accordance with § 246 of the Constitution of Kentucky,
which provides that the Mayor in cities of the first class shall be paid at a
rate no greater than $12,000 per annum, and Mayors in cities other than the
first class and Council members shall be paid at a rate no greater than $7,200
per annum.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Department for Local Government.
(KRS 83A.075)
   (B)   The City Council shall fix the compensation of city employees and
nonelected city officers in accordance with the personnel and pay
classification plan ordinance of the city.
(KRS 83A.070(2))
   (C)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
(KRS 83A.070(3))
Case law reference:
   The limits on compensation contained in the Kentucky Constitution are not
absolute limits but rather increase or decrease in accordance with changes in
the consumer price index. See Matthews v. Allen, 360 SW2d 248 (1948).
Editor’s note:
   Compensation ordinances are not set forth in this code but are rather kept
on file and available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk-
Treasurer.
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
incapacity, or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his or her
office, may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the
City Council, exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his or her removal. No elected officer shall be removed without
having been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed,
has the right to appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall
be on the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated
before the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(3)
§ 31.04 BOND.
   (A)   Official bonds shall, if required, meet the standards of KRS 62.060.
   (B)   All officers, officials, and employees of the city who handle public
funds in the execution of their duties shall give a good and sufficient bond to
the city for the faithful and honest performance of their duties, and as
security for all money coming into that person’s hands or under that person’s
control. The amount of the bond shall be based upon the maximum amount of
public funds the officer, official, or employee handles at any given time
during a fiscal year cycle. The cost of the bond shall be paid by the city.
   (C)   Elected officials who post bond as required by statute, and employees
of their offices covered by a blanket or umbrella bond, shall be deemed to have
complied with division (A) above.
(KRS 65.067)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.15 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Election of city officers shall be governed by general election laws
as provided in KRS Chapters 116 through 121 unless City Council otherwise
prescribes by ordinance that election of city officers shall be under
nonpartisan city election laws as provided in KRS Chapter 83A. The ordinance
shall become effective not later than 23 days prior to the date prescribed by
the election law generally for filing notification and declaration forms with
the County Clerk in a year in which a regular election is to be held in which
any city office is to be filled. Immediately subsequent to publication of any
ordinance prescribing that election of city officers be under nonpartisan city
election laws, a copy of the ordinance shall be filed with the County Clerk of
the county in which the city is located.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) above by ordinance, except that no change shall be
made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
(KRS 83A.050)
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing upon adoption of this
chapter shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of
Mayor and City Council members may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
(KRS 83A.080(4))
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
(KRS 83A.080(5))
§ 31.16 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Mayor shall be a
resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her election.
His or her term of office shall begin on January 1 following his or her
election and shall be for four years and until his or her successor qualifies.
If a person is elected or appointed as Mayor in response to a vacancy and
serves less than four calendar years, then that period of service shall not be
considered for purposes of re-election to a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(1))
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, Council shall
fill the vacancy within 30 days. If for any reason, any vacancy in the office
of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(a), (6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Council shall not vote for himself or herself.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be submitted through
electronic mail if it originates from the Mayor’s electronic email address and
includes also the Mayor’s handwritten signature. The resignation shall be
effective at the next regular or special meeting of the City Council occurring
on or after the date specified in the written letter of resignation. If a
resignation date is not specified, the written resignation shall be deemed to
become effective at the first regular or special meeting of the City Council
occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council or the Governor,
whichever is designated to make the appointment, shall immediately notify in
writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the office
of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130 to 83A.150.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and
exercised by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council Plan, city
ordinances and orders, and all applicable statutes. He or she shall supervise
all departments of city government and the conduct of all city officers and
employees under his or her jurisdiction, and shall require each department to
make reports to him or her as required by ordinance or as he or she deems
desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he or she finds appropriate or as
required by ordinance, but not less than annually. He or she shall make any
recommendations for actions by the Council he or she finds in the public
interest. (KRS 83A.130(3))
      (4)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to insure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statutes or ordinances. Upon promulgation or upon revision
or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the person
responsible for maintaining city records.
(KRS 83A.130(4))
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor’s power, duties, or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his or her official
authority to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order.
Executive orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a
permanent file.
(KRS 83A.130(7))
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his or her agent designated by
executive order.
(KRS 83A.130(8))
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance, or contract and except
for employees of the Council.
(KRS 83A.130(9))
      (8)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he or she is unable to attend to the
duties of his or her office by delegating responsibility for any function to be
performed, in accordance with division (D)(5) above. However, the Mayor may not
delegate the responsibility of presiding at meetings of the Council, and the
authority to approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may
only be delegated to an elected officer. With approval of the Council, the
Mayor may rescind any action taken in his or her absence under this division
(D)(8) within 30 days of the action. If for any reason the disability of the
Mayor to attend to his or her duties persists for 60 consecutive days, the
office of Mayor may be declared vacant by a majority vote of the Council and
the provisions of division (C) above shall apply.
(KRS 83A.130(10))
§ 31.17 COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Chapter 32 of this code of ordinances.
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.30 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office; and
      (4)   Bond, if required.
(KRS 83A.080(1))
   (B)   With the exception of the Police Chief and all city police officers,
all nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor and shall be with
approval of City Council. The Police Chief and all city police officers shall
be appointed by the Mayor at will and these appointments need not be approved
by City Council.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Mayor at will unless
otherwise provided by state law or ordinance. Upon removal of a nonelected
officer at will, the Mayor shall give the officer a written statement setting
forth the reason or reasons for the removal. However, this requirement shall
not be construed as limiting in any way the at will dismissal power of the
Mayor.
(KRS 83A.080(3)
   (D)   The following are nonelected city offices:
      (1)   City Clerk;
      (2)   City Treasurer;
      (3)   Building Inspector; and
      (4)   Zoning Administrator/Floodplain Manager.
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(2), (3)
§ 31.31 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   The office of City Clerk may, by ordinance, be combined with any other
nonelected city office by inclusion of the title and duties of the office.
   (C)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk shall include, but are
not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the official custodian or
custodian in accordance with KRS 61.870 to 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used;
      (4)    No later than January 31 of each year, mail or electronically
submit to the Department for Local Government a list containing current city
information, including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The correct name, telephone number, and electronic mail address
of the mayor, legislative body members, and the correct name, telephone number,
and electronic mail address for the city’s appointed officials or employees who
are serving in the following roles or substantially similar roles as of January
1 of each year:
            1.   City Clerk;
            2.   City Treasurer or Chief Financial Officer;
            3.   City Manager or Administrator;
            4.   City Attorney;
            5.   Human Resources Director;
            6.   Police Chief;
            7.   Fire Chief;
            8.   Public Works Director;
            9.   Risk Manager;
            10.   Information Technology Manager
            11.   Public Relations or Communications Officer; and
            12.   Planning and Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for City Hall, and
telephone number of City Hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person who may be reached during normal business
hours of 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.
      (5)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk by statute or ordinance.
(KRS 83A.085)
   (D)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City Council
from time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
   (E)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk unless the
person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the state Constitution and has
provided bond, if required, with corporate surety authorized to transact
business in the state and conditioned upon the performance of the duties
specified herein.
§ 31.32 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   Establishment. The office of City Treasurer is hereby established.
   (B)   Appointment and qualifications. The Mayor, with approval of City
Council, shall appoint a City Treasurer who shall be the custodian of all funds
of the city. The Mayor may remove the City Treasurer at will except as
otherwise provided by statute or ordinance. The City Treasurer shall have
graduated from an accredited high school and shall be chosen on the basis of
his or her secretarial and accounting skills.
   (C)   Duties and powers. The City Treasurer shall have and exercise all
powers and duties assigned to him or her by statute, this section, and such
other municipal responsibilities as are delegated from time to time. He or she
shall advise the Mayor, the City Council, and all other city officers and
employees in all financial matters pertaining to their municipal duties or
employment or affecting the interests of the city. He or she shall collect,
keep safe, promptly deposit, and account for all city revenues and monies from
all sources, shall maintain accurate and complete records of all city financial
transactions according to accepted accounting standards, and shall submit
summary statements of receipts and disbursements monthly to the City Council if
Council so requires. He or she shall prepare and maintain payroll records for
all city officers and employees, verify the public purpose of and the city’s
legal obligation for all disbursements from city funds, pay all claims and
accounts against the city approved by the City Council, and sign all checks
authorized to be issued against city funds, if so required by City Council.
   (D)   Oath and bond. No person shall be appointed or act as the City
Treasurer unless such person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the state
Constitution, and has provided a bond in the sum of $10,000 with corporate
surety authorized to transact business in the state and conditioned upon the
performance of the duties specified herein.
   (E)   Compensation. The compensation of the City Treasurer shall be in an
amount to be established by City Council from time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
(2005 Code, § 31.37) (Ord. 112, passed 6-6-1978)
§ 31.33 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR/ FLOODPLAIN MANAGER.
   For provisions concerning this official, see §
153.01.
(2005 Code, § 31.39)
CITY EMPLOYEES
§ 31.45 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Mayor is directed, authorized, and empowered to enter into,
execute, and deliver a contract for the services of an attorney at law, to
render legal services to the city. Said contract shall be in words and figures
as set forth in this section.
   (B)   The city shall contract with an attorney as its legal advisor for a
period of one year at an annual salary, payable monthly, as set forth in the
annual contract.
   (C)   The attorney, for and in consideration of the foregoing, shall agree
and obligate himself or herself to faithfully represent the interest of the
city as its legal advisor for said period. He or she shall agree that his or
her duties shall be that of legal advisor and that he or she shall do and
perform any and all legal services entrusted to him or her by the city,
including the advising of city authorities and officers on all legal matters
pertaining to the business of the city, to represent the city in a legal
capacity, to draft all ordinances, resolutions, and proclamations as the City
Council and its Mayor may desire and direct, to diligently prosecute the
collection of all delinquent taxes, assessments, licenses, fees, and the like,
placed in his or her hands for collection, and to discharge such other duties
as may be required of him or her by the City Council.
   (D)   The attorney shall attend all meetings of the City Council where his
or her presence is requested, shall advise it in all matters of legislation or
legal proceedings, shall advise the City Planning and Zoning Commission or
Board of Adjustment of the city, shall advise the Police and Fire Departments
as to matters dealing with the performance of their duties, and shall perform
any and all other duties in his or her department required by the City Council.
   (E)   The services to be performed by the attorney hereunder and for which
compensation is provided shall include the usual legal services incidental to
the conduct of the affairs of the city. Such compensation does not include any
extraordinary services which might be incurred, and which include the defense
of any actions for damages against the city, work relating to street, sidewalk,
sewer, and the like, construction contracts, annexation matters, appearances
before special groups or parties entailing legal work not usual or incidental
to the conduct of the city’s affairs, and representation or protection on
behalf of the city of any litigation proceedings in any state or federal court.
Compensation for any such extraordinary services shall be at an hourly rate as
set by ordinance.
   (F)   The attorney shall accept the contract and promise and agree to well
and faithfully perform to the best of his or her ability all said services
during the continuation of the contract. It is the intent and the understanding
of both parties that the services provided hereunder are intended to be
provided by the attorney as an independent contractor and that said attorney is
not considered to be an employee of the city.
   (G)   If and in the event said attorney is unable to meet with the City
Council on a particular day, or perform any other ordinary services as required
by contract, then he or she will, at his or her own expense, provide substitute
counsel.
(2005 Code, § 31.50) (Res. 88-0701, passed 7-5-1988)
CHAPTER 32: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
Rules of Procedure
   
32.15   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.16   Meetings
   
32.17   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.30   One subject; title
   
32.31   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.32   Form of amendment
   
32.33   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.34   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
32.35   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.36   Official city records
   
32.37   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.38   Publication requirements
   
32.39   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.40   Periodic review required
   
32.41   Municipal orders
   
32.42   Proved by Clerk; received in evidence
   
32.43   Legislative immunity
Cross-reference:
   City officials, see
Ch. 31
   Code Enforcement Board, see
Ch. 38
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Council member shall be elected at
large by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Council
shall be a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her
election. Terms of office begin on January 1 following the election and shall
be for two years, except as provided by KRS 83A.050.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 18 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on Council occur in a way that one
or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30 days fill
the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice of his
or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with the remaining
members in making further appointments until all vacancies are filled. If
vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor shall
appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute a
quorum. Remaining vacancies shall be filled as provided in this section.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of City
Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the resigning Council
member’s electronic email address and includes also the resigning Council
member’s handwritten signature. The resignation shall be effective at the next
regular or special meeting of the City Council occurring on or after the date
specified in the written letter of resignation. If a resignation date is not
specified, the written resignation shall be deemed to become effective at the
first regular or special meeting of the City Council occurring on or after its
receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   Pursuant to KRS 118.305(7), if a vacancy occurs on the City Council
which is required by law to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City
Council or the Governor, whichever is designated to make the appointment, shall
immediately notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State
of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason, any vacancy on Council
is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill
the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same
period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised
by the elected Council of the city. The Council shall not perform any executive
functions except those functions assigned to it by statute.
(KRS 83A.130(11))
   (B)   The Council shall, by ordinance, establish all appointive offices and
the duties and responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and
regulations for the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (C)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (D)   The Council shall have the right to investigate all activities of city
government. The Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and
submit to it sworn statements regarding the performance of his or her official
duties. Any statement required by the Council to be submitted or any
investigation undertaken by the Council, if any office, department, or agency
under the jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or
undertaken unless and until written notice of the Council’s action is given to
the Mayor. The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the Council
and to appear personally or through his or her designee on behalf of any
department, office, or agency in the course of any investigation.
(KRS 83A.130(13))
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.15 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council. If the Mayor for
any reason is unable to attend a meeting of the City Council, the members of
the City Council shall by majority vote at any such meeting select one of the
Council members to serve as Mayor Pro Tem in place of the Mayor at that
particular meeting.
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in Council proceedings, but shall not have a
vote, except that he or she may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130(5)) (2005 Code, § 32.20) (Ord. 81-04-01, passed 4-7-1981)
Cross-reference:
   Council’s responsibility to select one of its own members to preside when
there is vacancy in the office of Mayor, see §
31.16
§ 32.16 MEETINGS.
   (A)    Regular meetings of the Council shall be held on the first Thursday
of the month at 6:00 p.m. at the city offices located at 308 Oak Street.
   (B)   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or upon
written request of a majority of the Council. In the call, the Mayor or Council
shall designate the purpose, time, and place of the special meeting with
sufficient notice for the attendance of Council members and for compliance with
KRS Chapter 61.
   (C)   At a special meeting, no business may be considered other than that
set forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person responsible
for maintaining city records, as provided under §
32.36, and by the officer presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.130(11)) (2005 Code, § 32.21) (Res. 87-0101, passed 1-6-1987; Ord. 06-
1103, passed 12-4-2006; Ord. 19-0301, passed 4-4-2019)
§ 32.17 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Council shall
constitute a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take
action.
(KRS 83A.060(6))
ORDINANCES
§ 32.30 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
shall clearly state the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1))
§ 32.31 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause, styled: “Be it ordained by the City of Silver Grove.”
(KRS 83A.060(2))
§ 32.32 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060(3))
§ 32.33 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no ordinance shall be
enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
(KRS 83A.060(4))
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication to provide for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.38 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(7))
§ 32.34 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance by
affixing his or her signature or disapprove it by returning it to the Council
together with a statement of his or her objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor’s approval unless he
or she fails to return it to the Council within ten days after receiving it or
unless the Council votes to override the Mayor’s veto, upon reconsideration of
the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting following its return,
by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of the membership.
(KRS 83A.130(6))
§ 32.35 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is
made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5))
§ 32.36 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Council shall be made a part of the permanent
records of the city and, on passage of an ordinance, the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Council has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.31(C) and
32.37, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk and the presiding officer shall sign the official record
of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.37 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years; and
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and indexed in a composite index or
maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8)(a), (b))
§ 32.38 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.33(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
Council. If the Council elects to publish an ordinance in summary, the summary
shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to practice law in the
state and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9))
§ 32.39 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city shall not
lessen or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute
relating to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10))
§ 32.40 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   At least once every five years, the city shall cause all ordinances in this
code of ordinances to be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and to be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent, and
invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11))
§ 32.41 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Council may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall be in
writing and may be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
(KRS 83A.060(12))
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, a municipal order may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the city has control.
(KRS 83A.060(13))
§ 32.42 PROVED BY CLERK; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of ordinances by
authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in evidence by any
state court without further proof of the ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14))
§ 32.43 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Council members shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15))
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
Improvements
   
33.20   Definitions
   
33.21   Financing of improvements
   
33.22   Apportionment of cost
   
33.23   Comprehensive report required
   
33.24   Public hearing required
   
33.25   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.26   Affected owner may contest
   
33.27   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.28   Effect of additional property or change in financing
Purchasing
   
33.40   Local government purchasing regulations adopted
 
   
33.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   City Treasurer, see §
31.32
   Code of Ethical Conduct, see
Ch. 36
   Occupational and business license fees, see
Ch. 110
   Taxation, see
Ch. 37
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year, and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an ENCUMBRANCE
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities, and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010)
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. Notwithstanding
any other provision of law, no monies shall be expended from any governmental
or proprietary fund except in accordance with a budget ordinance adopted
pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Monies held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in the form and detail as
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal, together with a budget message, shall be
submitted to Council not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the
fiscal year it covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the
governmental goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain
important features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the
reasons for stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs,
and appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   Council shall adopt a budget ordinance making appropriations for
the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether greater
or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The budget ordinance
may be in any form that Council finds most efficient in enabling it to make the
necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of § 157
of the state Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated, for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance’s adoption, if the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. That responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to Council of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. The reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer, or employee of a city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, express or implied, beyond existing appropriations
are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond, certificate, or warrant
for the payment of money by the city in any way to any extent, beyond the
unexpended balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   Each city shall, after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund
of the city to be audited by the Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified
public accountant. The audit shall be completed by March 1 immediately
following the fiscal year being audited. The city shall forward an electronic
copy of the audit report to the Department for Local Government for information
purposes by no later than April 1 immediately following the fiscal year being
audited.
   (B)   If a city is required by another provision of law to audit its funds
more frequently or more stringently than is required by this section, the city
shall also comply with the provisions of that law.
   (C)   The Department for Local Government shall, upon request, make
available electronic copies of the audit reports and financial statements
received by it under division (A) of this section to the Legislative Research
Commission to be used for the purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975 or to the Auditor
of Public Accounts.
   (D)   Each city required by this section to conduct an annual or biennial
audit shall enter into a written contract with the selected auditor. The
contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall
include but not be limited to requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements,
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual or biennial city audit
report an examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to
the city under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification
with the annual or biennial audit report that the funds were expended for the
purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which include tests of the accounting
records and auditing procedures considered necessary in the circumstances.
Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal funds, appropriate
state or Federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor's opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit;
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the city legislative body at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant's work papers upon request.
   (E)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to a
city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (F)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the city legislative body, publish an advertisement in accordance with KRS
Chapter 424 containing:
      (1)   The auditor's opinion letter;
      (2)   The "Budgetary Comparison Schedules-Major Funds," which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at city hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from city hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $0.25 per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220, when a financial statement is required by KRS
424.220, are available to the public at no cost at the business address of the
officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (G)   Any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city may
bring an action in the Circuit Court to enforce the provisions of this section.
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any officer who fails to comply with
any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be subject to a
forfeiture of not less than $50 nor more than $500, in the discretion of the
court, which may be recovered only once in a civil action brought by any
resident of the city or owner of real property within the city. The costs of
all proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident or
property owner bringing the action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful
party.
   (H)   In the event of extenuating circumstances that prevent a city from
completing and submitting a required audit or financial statement in compliance
with the applicable deadlines in division (A) of this section, the city may
submit a written request for an extension of time to the Department for Local
Government on a form prescribed by the Department for Local Government. The
Department for Local Government shall approve the request if it is submitted on
or before the applicable deadline and, in the judgment of the Department for
Local Government, the request is warranted by extenuating circumstances beyond
the control of the city. Extensions granted under this section shall not exceed
nine months from the original due date of the audit or financial statement. If
the Department for Local Government approves an extension for a city and the
city fails to complete and submit the required audit or financial statement in
compliance with that extended deadline, then the provisions of division (H) of
this section shall apply.
   (H)   If a city fails to complete an audit or financial statement and submit
it to the Department for Local Government as required in divisions (A) and (G)
of this section, the Department for Local Government shall notify the Finance
and Administration Cabinet that the city has failed to comply with the audit
requirements of this section, and that any funds in the possession of any
agency, entity, or branch of state government shall be withheld from the city
until further notice. The Department for Local Government shall immediately
notify the Finance and Administration Cabinet when the city complies with the
requirements of divisions (A) and (G) of this section for all prior fiscal
years it has failed to comply with the audit requirements of this section, and
the Finance and Administration Cabinet shall direct the reinstatement of
payments to the city, including any funds that were withheld due to the
noncompliance.
   (I)   Within a reasonable time after the completion of a special audit or
examination conducted pursuant to KRS 43.050, the Auditor shall bill the city
for the actual expense of the audit or examination conducted. The actual
expense shall include the hours of work performed on the audit or examination
as well as reasonable associated costs, including but not limited to travel
costs. The bill submitted to the city shall include a statement of the hourly
rate, total hours, and total costs for the entire audit or examination.
(KRS 91A.040) Penalty, §
33.99
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city’s official depositories one or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the state. The amount of funds on deposit in an official depository
shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in accordance
with 12 U.S.C. § 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any obligations, including
surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which states
the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the payment,
and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization shall be
numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all the properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by Council of the special benefit received
by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis, front foot
basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may include
consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different classes
of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received, and other
factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs, and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to the front footage of all the properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by the facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefitted by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all the property.
(KRS 91A.210)
§ 33.21 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes.
(KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
Statutory reference:
   Improvements; alternate methods, see KRS Chapter 107
§ 33.22 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization. Council
may assess the property in the same manner as for privately owned property or
it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230)
§ 33.23 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240)
§ 33.24 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   (A)   After preparation of the report required by §
33.23, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424,
and mailed to each affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt
requested, and shall include:
      (1)   The nature of the improvement;
      (2)   Description of area of the improvement;
      (3)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in
whole or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
      (4)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
      (5)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250)
§ 33.25 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.23 and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage the city shall
publish the ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by certified
mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to proceed with
the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to
the property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the
total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260)
§ 33.26 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.25, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his or her property in the improvement, or the amount of his
or her assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by
the special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution shall be final and binding with respect to the
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270)
§ 33.27 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.26, or after favorable final judgment in the action, whichever comes later,
the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the action,
including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment thereon
and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The first
installment may be apportioned so that other payments will coincide with
payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Council shall
exempt any benefitted property from the lien for the improvement assessment,
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280)
§ 33.28 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.23 through
33.27 apply if additional property is included in the improvement or if change
is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property may be
included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof without
compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost apportioned to
any other property, or any other change may be made without this compliance, if
all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290)
PURCHASING
§ 33.40 LOCAL GOVERNMENT PURCHASING REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   The City Council no longer desires the city to operate under the Kentucky
Model Procurement Code, but instead elects to follow the requirements of KRS
424.260 and other statutes applicable to local government purchasing.
(2005 Code, § 33.30) (Ord. 80-10-07, passed 10-7-1980)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to § 10.99 of this code of
ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
33.04 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any
officer who fails to comply with any of the provisions of §
33.04 shall, for each failure, be subject to a forfeiture of not less than $50
nor more than $500, in the discretion of the court, which may be recovered only
once in a civil action brought by any resident of the city or owner of real
property within the city. The costs of all proceedings, including a reasonable
fee for the attorney of the resident or property owner bringing the action,
shall be assessed against the unsuccessful party.
(KRS 91A.040)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.15   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.16   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.17   Public records not immediately available
   
34.18   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.19   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.20   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.21   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.22   Format of copies
   
34.23   Fees for copies
   
34.24   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
34.25   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
34.26   Public records protected from disclosure
   
34.27   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The city government of this city.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its news
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to the action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
(KRS 61.870(4))
   CUSTODIAN. 
      (1)   The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records.
(KRS 61.870(6))
      (2)   The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of most of the public records
of this city is the City Clerk.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to, a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
(KRS 61.870(8))
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to, paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
(KRS 61.870(7))
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN. 
      (1)   The chief administrative officer or any other officer or employee
of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care, and keeping of
public records, regardless of whether the records are in his or her actual
personal custody and control.
(KRS 61.870(5))
      (2)   The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall be the Mayor.
   PERSON. A human being who makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. 
      (1)   Every state or local government officer;
      (2)   Every state or local government department, division, bureau,
board, commission, and authority;
      (3)   Every state or local legislative board, commission, committee, and
officer;
      (4)   Every county and city governing body, council, school district
board, special district board, and municipal corporation;
      (5)   Every state or local court or judicial agency;
      (6)   Every state or local government agency, including the policy-making
board of an institution of education, created by or pursuant to state or local
statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or other legislative act;
      (7)   Any body created by state or local authority in any branch of
government;
      (8)   Any body which, within any fiscal year, derives at least 25% of its
funds expended by it in the state from state or local authority funds. However,
any funds derived from a state or local authority in compensation for goods or
services that are provided by a contract obtained through a competitive
procurement process shall not be included in the determination of whether a
body is a public agency under this division (8);
      (9)   Any entity where the majority of its governing body is appointed by
a PUBLIC AGENCY as defined in this division; by a member or employee of the
PUBLIC AGENCY; or by any combination thereof;
      (10)   Any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council, or agency, except for a committee of a hospital
medical staff, established, created, and controlled by a PUBLIC AGENCY as
defined in this definition; and
      (11)   Any interagency body of two or more public agencies where each
PUBLIC AGENCY is defined in this definition.
(KRS 61.870(1))
   PUBLIC RECORD. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of
or retained by the public agency. PUBLIC RECORD shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for a body discussed in division (8) of the
definition of PUBLIC AGENCY, above that are not related to functions,
activities, programs, or operations funded by state or local authority.
(KRS 61.870(2))
   REQUEST. An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the agency.
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency’s computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870(3))
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.15 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of this city
shall make a request for inspection at the office of the City Clerk during
regular office hours, except during legal holidays. The official custodian, or
the custodian acting under the authority of the official custodian, may require
a request to inspect public records to be in writing, signed by the applicant,
and with the applicant’s name printed legibly on the application. A written
request to inspect public records may be presented by hand delivery, mail, or
via facsimile, if one is available.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person’s request is in compliance
with this chapter and the open records law, and the requested public records
are immediately available, the custodian shall deliver the records for
inspection. A person may inspect public records at the designated office of the
city during the regular office hours, or in appropriate cases, by receiving
copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the city,
suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk or
in another office of the city as determined by the official custodian or
custodian for the inspection. No person shall remove original copies of public
records from the offices of the city without the written permission of the
official custodian of the record. When public records are inspected at the city
offices, the person inspecting the records shall have the right to make
abstracts and memoranda of the public records and to obtain copies of all
written public records. When copies are requested, the custodian may require
advance payment of the prescribed fee.
   (D)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee.
Statutory reference:
   Right to inspection, limitations, see KRS 61.872(1) through (3)
§ 34.16 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk does not have custody or control of the public record or
records requested, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant and shall furnish
the name and location of the official custodian of the agency’s public records.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 34.17 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
    If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays) from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on
which the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5))
§ 34.18 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
§ 34.19 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
    Each public agency, upon any request for records made under this chapter,
shall determine within five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the request
and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the five-day
period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in part,
inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific exception
authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of how the
exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued by the
official custodian or under his or her authority and shall constitute final
agency action.
(KRS 61.880(1))
§ 34.20 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
§ 34.21 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or her or
in which he or she is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate
identification, subject to the provisions of §
34.26.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 34.22 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
34.26. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where appropriate.
If the applicant desires copies of public records other than written records,
the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or permit the
applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall ensure that
the duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
(KRS 61.874(1))
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than eight and one-half inches by 11 inches in at least one color on white
paper, or for electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard
Code for Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and the format conforms
to the requestor’s requirements, the public record may be provided in this
alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(2))
§ 34.23 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   Noncommercial purposes. The public agency may prescribe a reasonable
fee for making copies of nonexempt public records requested for use for
noncommercial purposes which shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction,
including the costs of the media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by
the public agency, but not including the cost of staff required. If a public
agency is asked to produce a record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor
the format to meet the request of an individual or a group, the public agency
may at its discretion provide the requested format and recover staff costs as
well as any actual costs incurred.
(KRS 61.874(3))
   (B)   Commercial purposes.
      (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) above may be based on one
or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing, and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records; and/or
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase, or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(4))
Cross-reference:
   Fees for online access to public records, see §
34.25
§ 34.24 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
34.23(B)(2);
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.25 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license, or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
34.23(B).
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 34.26 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except that no court shall
authorize the inspection by any party of any materials pertaining to civil
litigation beyond that which is provided by the Rules of Civil Procedure
governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy;
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute;
 
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency, or required by
an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records;
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS
Chapter 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (A)(3)(b)
above shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
directed by statute.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the state. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(3) above;
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods;
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision;
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again;
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action; however, records or information compiled
and maintained by county attorneys or Commonwealth Attorneys pertaining to
criminal investigations or criminal litigation shall be exempted from the
provisions of this chapter and shall remain exempted after enforcement action,
including litigation, is completed or a decision is made to take no action. The
exemptions provided by this division (A)(8) shall not be used by the custodian
of the records to delay or impede the exercise of rights granted by this
chapter;
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency;
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended;
      (11)   All public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation;
      (12)   Public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of
Revenue in tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure
under KRS 131.190;
      (13)   (a)   Public records, the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.    Counterterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division (A)(13) through the disclosure of the location, configuration,
or security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems.
These critical systems shall include, but not be limited to, information
technology, communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water,
wastewater, sewage and gas systems;
            7.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division (A)(13): detailed drawings,
schematics, maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and
operating, utility, or security systems of any building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division (A)(13) and that describe the exact physical
location of hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division (A)(13), TERRORIST ACT means a criminal
act intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (A)(13)(a)6.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division (A)(13), that public
agency shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to
in KRS 61.880(1), to the Executive Director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division (A)(13) shall affect the obligations of
a public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division (A)(13) shall not
apply when a member of the state’s General Assembly seeks to inspect a public
record identified in this division (A)(13) under the Open Records Law; and
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapter 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited; and
      (16)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
(KRS 61.878(1)(a) - (o), (s))
   (B)   (1)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person.
(KRS 61.878(2))
      (2)   In addition, if any public record contains material which is not
excepted under this section, the public agency shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of § 34.18.
(KRS 61.878(4))
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
(KRS 61.878(5))
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge,
or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him or her. These records
shall include, but not be limited to, work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and preliminary and other
supporting documentation. A city employee, applicant, or eligible shall not
have the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to
ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by any agency.
(KRS 61.878(3))
§ 34.27 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in Circuit Court regarding the enforcement of the Open
Records Law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
CHAPTER 35: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
35.01   Adoption by reference
   
35.02   Employee retirement system
§ 35.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The rules and regulations attached to Ord. 11-0101 shall be the system
of personnel administration for the city.
   (B)   These rules may be waived, altered, or suspended only by a change by
ordinance.
(Ord. 11-0101, passed 2-1-2011)
§ 35.02 EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   The city is hereby authorized to participate in the County Employees
Retirement System, and that all eligible regular full-time officers and
employees of this agency are hereby authorized and directed to comply with the
statutory requirements of this Retirement System.
   (B)   All the employees of the city whose duties require an average of 100
hours during each working month shall be considered as “regular full-time”
employees for County Retirement purposes, except those employees of agencies
excluded under KRS Chapter 530 which may participate in the system as a
separate agency and those other persons who are employed as “temporary”, “part
time”, and “seasonal” workers, as defined in KRS 78.510(21) of the County
Employee Retirement Laws.
(Ord. 95-0801, passed 9-5-1995)
CHAPTER 36: CODE OF ETHICAL CONDUCT
Section
General Provisions
   
36.001   Title
   
36.002   Findings
   
36.003   Purpose and authority
   
36.004   Definitions
   
36.005   Nepotism restricted
Standards of Conduct
   
36.020   Conflicts of interest in general
   
36.021   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
36.022   Receipt of gifts
   
36.023   Use of city property, equipment, and personnel
   
36.024   Representation of interests before city government
   
36.025   Misuse of confidential information
   
36.026   Post-employment restriction
   
36.027   Honoraria
Financial Disclosure
   
36.040   Who must file
   
36.041   When to file statements; amended statements
   
36.042   Form of the statement of financial interests
   
36.043   Control and maintenance of the statements of financial interests
   
36.044   Contents of the financial interests statement
   
36.045   Noncompliance with filing requirement
Enforcement
   
36.060   Board of Ethics created
   
36.061   Alternate members
   
36.062   Facilities and staff
   
36.063   Power and duties of the Board of Ethics
   
36.064   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
36.065   Notice of hearings
   
36.066   Hearing procedure
   
36.067   Appeals
   
36.068   Limitation of actions
   
36.069   Advisory opinions
   
36.070   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
 
   
36.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Silver Grove
Code of Ethics”.
(2005 Code, § 36.01) (Ord. 94-1002, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 36.002 FINDINGS.
   The legislative body of the city finds and declares that:
   (A)   Public office and employment with the city are public trusts;
   (B)   The vitality and stability of the government of this city depends upon
the public’s confidence in the integrity of its elected and appointed officers
and employees. Whenever the public perceives a conflict between the private
interests and public duties of a city officer or employee, that confidence is
imperiled; and
   (C)   The government of this city has a duty to provide its citizens with
standards by which they may determine whether public duties are being
faithfully performed, and to make its officers and employees aware of the
standards which the citizenry rightfully expects them to comply with while
conducting their public duties.
(2005 Code, § 36.02) (Ord. 94-1002, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 36.003 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of the city shall be clearly established, uniform in their
application, and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees of the
city with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest
which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS 65.003, as enacted by the 1994 state General Assembly.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.003.
(2005 Code, § 36.03) (Ord. 94-1002, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 36.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF ETHICS. The City of Silver Grove Board of Ethics, which is created
and vested by this chapter with the responsibility of enforcing the
requirements of the city’s code of ethics.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation, or any legal entity through which business is conducted for
profit.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city office.
An individual is a CANDIDATE when the individual files a notification and
declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration
of intent to be a write-in candidate with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State.
   CITY. Refers to the City of Silver Grove, Kentucky.
   CITY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, nonstock corporation, or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by this city.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city. The term EMPLOYEE
shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of their employees.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent, or grandchild.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in the
officer’s or employee’s household, or a person claimed by the officer or
employee, or the officer’s or employee’s spouse, as a dependent for tax
purposes.
   OFFICER. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   A legislative body member;
      (3)   The City Clerk;
      (4)   The City Treasurer;
      (5)   Any person who occupies a non-elected office created under KRS
83A.080; or
      (6)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency by the city.
(2005 Code, § 36.04) (Ord. 94-1002, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 36.005 NEPOTISM RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall advocate,
recommend, or cause the:
      (1)   Employment;
      (2)   Appointment;
      (3)   Promotion;
      (4)   Transfer; or
      (5)   Advancement of his or her family member to an office or position of
employment with the city or a city agency.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall participate in any action relating to the
employment or discipline of a family member, except that this prohibition shall
not prevent an elected or appointed official from voting on or participating in
the development of a budget which includes compensation for a family member,
provided that the family member is included only as a member of a class of
persons or a group, and the family member benefits to no greater extent than
any other similarly situated member of the class or group.
   (C)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to
January 1, 1995.
(2005 Code, § 36.05) (Ord. 94-1002, passed 10-4-1994) Penalty, see §
36.999
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 36.020 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN GENERAL.
   Every officer and employee of the city and every city agency shall comply
with the following standards of conduct.
   (A)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of any officer
or employee, shall have an interest in a business or engage in any business,
transaction, or activity, which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of the officer’s or employee’s public duties.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or
advantages for himself or herself or others.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or refrain from taking
any discretionary action, or agree to take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action, or induce or attempt to induce any other officer or
employee to take or refrain from taking any discretionary action, on any matter
before the city in order to obtain a financial benefit for any of the
following:
      (1)   The officer or employee;
      (2)   A family member;
      (3)   An outside employer;
      (4)   Any business in which the officer or employee, or any family member
has a financial interest; or
      (5)   Any business with which the officer or employee or any family
member is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or
professional relationship.
   (D)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
in this section if, by reason of the officer’s or employee’s participation,
vote, decision, action, or inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the
officer or employee, a family member, an outside employer, or a business as
defined in divisions (C)(4) and (C)(5) above, as a member of any business,
occupation, profession, or other group, to any greater extent than any gain
could reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member of the business,
occupation, profession, or other group.
   (E)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected
by his or her participation, vote, decision, or other action taken within the
scope of his or her public duties, shall disclose the precise nature and value
of the interest, in writing, to the governing body of the city or city agency
served by the officer or employee, and the disclosure shall be entered on the
official record of the proceedings of the governing body. The officer or
employee shall refrain from taking any action with respect to the matter that
is the subject of the disclosure.
(2005 Code, § 36.15) (Ord. 94-1002, passed 10-4-1994) Penalty see, §
36.999
§ 36.021 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly
or through others undertake, execute, hold, or enjoy, in whole or in part, any
contract made, entered into, awarded, or granted by the city or a city agency,
except as follows.
      (1)   The prohibition in division (A) above shall not apply to contracts
entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for city office,
before an appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency office, or
before an employee was hired by the city or a city agency. However, if any
contract entered into by a city or city agency officer or employee before he or
she became a candidate, was appointed to office, or was hired as an employee,
is renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes the appointed office,
or is hired as an employee, then the prohibition in division (A) above shall
apply to the renewal of the contract.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply if
the contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the
officer or employee is authorized to participate in establishing the contract
specifications, awarding the contract, or managing contract performance after
the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any of the authorities
set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or employee shall have no
interest in the contract, unless the requirements set forth in division (A)(3)
below are satisfied.
      (3)   The prohibition in division (A) above shall not apply in any case
where the following requirements are satisfied:
         (a)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer’s or employee’s interest in the contract are publicly disclosed
at a meeting of the governing body of the city or city agency;
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed;
         (c)   A finding is made by the governing body of the city or city
agency that the contract with the officer or employee is in the best interests
of the public and the city or city agency because of price, limited supply, or
other specific reasons; and
         (d)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor
and, upon conviction, the court may void any contract entered into in violation
of this section. Additionally, a violation of this section shall be grounds for
removal from office or employment with the city in accordance with any
applicable provisions of state law and ordinances, rules, or regulations of the
city.
(2005 Code, § 36.16) (Ord. 94-1002, passed 10-4-1994) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.022 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly or
indirectly, through any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift
having a fair market value of more than $100, whether in the form of money,
service, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing, or promise, or any
other form, under circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred that
the gift was intended to influence, or could reasonably be expected to
influence, the officer or employee in the performance of his or her public
duties.
(2005 Code, § 36.17) (Ord. 94-1002, passed 10-4-1994) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.023 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT, AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any city
time, funds, personnel, equipment, or other personal or real property for the
private use of any person, unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy; and
   (B)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that such use is available to the general public.
(2005 Code, § 36.18) (Ord. 94-1002, passed 10-4-1994) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.024 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall represent
any person or business, other than the city, in connection with any cause,
proceeding, application, or other matter pending before the city or any city
agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an employee from representing
another employee or employees where the representation is within the context of
official labor union or similar representational responsibilities.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matters concerning his or her own interests.
   (D)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward,
or other thing of value is promised to, given to, or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(2005 Code, § 36.19) (Ord. 94-1002, passed 10-4-1994) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.025 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall intentionally
use or disclose information acquired in the course or his or her official
duties, if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further his or
her personal financial interest or that of another person or business.
Information shall be deemed confidential if it is not subject to disclosure
pursuant to the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 to 61.884, at the time of
its use or disclosure.
(2005 Code, § 36.20) (Ord. 94-1002, passed 10-4-1994) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.026 POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall appear or
practice before the city or any city agency with respect to any matter on which
the officer or employee personally worked while in the service of the city or
city agency for a period of one year after the termination of the officer’s or
employee’s service with the city or city agency.
(2005 Code, § 36.21) (Ord. 94-1002, passed 10-4-1994) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.027 HONORARIA.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall accept any
compensation, honorarium, or gift with a fair market value greater than $100 in
consideration of an appearance, speech, or article unless the appearance,
speech or article is both related to the officer’s or employee’s activities
outside of municipal service and is unrelated to the officer’s or employee’s
service with the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency from receiving and retaining from the city or on behalf
of the city actual and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the
officer or employee in connection with an appearance, speech or article,
provided that the officer or employee can show by clear and convincing evidence
that the expenses were incurred or received on behalf of the city or city
agency and primarily for the benefit of the city or city agency and not
primarily for the benefit of the officer or employee or any other person.
(2005 Code, § 36.22) (Ord. 94-1002, passed 10-4-1994) Penalty, see §
36.999
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 36.040 WHO MUST FILE.
   The following classes of officers and employees of the city and city
agencies shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the Board
of Ethics: elected city officials.
(2005 Code, § 36.30) (Ord. 94-1002, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 36.041 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this section
shall be filed with the City Clerk, who shall be designated as the custodian of
its records by the Board of Ethics, no later than 3:00 p.m. May 1, 1995. All
subsequent statements of financial interest shall be filed no later than 3:00
p.m. on May 1 of each year, provided that: an elected city official newly-
appointed to fill an office with the city shall file his or her initial
statement no later than 30 days after the date of the appointment.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board, the elected
official shall, no later than 30 days after becoming aware of the material
change, file an amended statement with the Board.
(2005 Code, § 36.31) (Ord. 94-1002, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 36.042 FORM OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form prescribed by
the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated by the Board of
Ethics. The Board, or the designated administrative official, shall deliver a
copy of the form to each officer and employee required to file the statement,
by first class mail or hand delivery, no later than January 30 of each year.
The failure of the Board, or the designated administrative official, to deliver
a copy of the form to any officer or employee shall not relieve the officer or
employee of the obligation to file the statement.
(2005 Code, § 36.32) (Ord. 94-1002, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 36.043 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF THE STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall be the “official custodian” of the statements of
financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance of the
statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests shall
be maintained by the City Clerk as the administrative official designated by
the Board of Ethics as the “custodian”, as public documents, available for
public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the City Clerk
for a period of five years after filing, provided that:
      (1)   Upon the expiration of three years after a person ceases to be an
officer or employee of the city or a city agency, the City Clerk at the
direction of the Board of Ethics shall cause to be destroyed any statements of
financial interests or copies of those statements filed by the person; and
      (2)   Upon the expiration of three years after any election at which a
candidate for elected city office was not elected or nominated, the City Clerk
at the direction of the Board of Ethics shall cause to be destroyed any
statements of financial interests or copies of those statements filed by the
person.
(2005 Code, § 36.33) (Ord. 94-1002, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 36.044 CONTENTS OF THE FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number, and
home address of the filer;
      (2)   The title of the filer’s office, office sought, or position of
employment;
      (3)   The occupation of the filer and the filer’s spouse;
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer and
the filer’s immediate family members exceeding $5,000 during the preceding
calendar year, and the nature of the income (for example, salary, commission,
dividends, retirement fund distribution, and the like);
      (5)   The name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had at any time
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 at fair market value
or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (6)   The name and address of any business located outside of the state,
if the business has engaged in any business transactions with the city during
the past three years, or which is anticipated to engage in any business
transactions with the city, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s
immediate family had at any time during the preceding calendar year an interest
of $10,000 at fair market value or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (7)   A designation as commercial, residential, or rural, and the
location of all real property within the county, other than the filer’s primary
residence, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 or more;
      (8)   Each source by name and address of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of $100 or more from any single source, excluding
gifts received from family members, received by the filer or any member of the
filer’s immediate family during the preceding calendar year; and
      (9)   The name and address of any creditor owed more than $10,000, except
debts arising from the purchase of a primary residence or the purchase of
consumer goods which are bought or used primarily for person, family, or
household purposes.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of individual
clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income.
(2005 Code, § 36.34) (Ord. 94-1002, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 36.045 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT.
   The City Clerk, at the direction of the Board of Ethics, shall notify by
certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial interests
who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete statement,
or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed by the Board. The
notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall establish a date
by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied, and shall advise the
person of the penalties for a violation.
(2005 Code, § 36.35) (Ord. 94-1002, passed 10-4-1994) Penalty, see §
36.999
ENFORCEMENT
§ 36.060 BOARD OF ETHICS CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board of Ethics which shall have the
authorities, duties, and responsibilities as set forth in this chapter to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics shall consist of three members who shall be
appointed by the executive authority of the city, subject to the approval of
the legislative body. The initial members of the Board of Ethics shall be
appointed within 60 days of the effective date of this chapter. No member of
the Board of Ethics shall hold any elected or appointed office, whether paid or
unpaid, or any position of employment with the city or any city agency. The
members shall serve for a term of three years; except that with respect to the
members initially appointed, one member shall be appointed for a term of one
year, one member shall be appointed for a term of two years, and one members
shall be appointed for a term of three years. Thereafter, all appointments
shall be for a term of three years. Each member of the Board of Ethics shall
have been a resident of the city for at least one year prior to the date of the
appointment and shall reside in the city throughout the term in office. The
members of the Board of Ethics shall be chosen by virtue of their known and
consistent reputation for integrity and their knowledge of local government
affairs. The members may be re-appointed for any number of consecutive terms.
   (C)   A member of the Board of Ethics may be removed by the executive
authority, subject to the approval of the legislative body for misconduct,
inability, or willful neglect of duties. Before any member of the Board of
Ethics is removed from office under this section, the member shall be afforded
the opportunity for a hearing before the executive authority and the
legislative body.
   (D)   Vacancies on the Board of Ethics shall be filled within 60 days by the
executive authority, subject to the approval of the legislative body. If a
vacancy is not filled by the executive authority within 60 days, the remaining
members of the Board of Ethics shall fill the vacancy. All vacancies shall be
filled for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (E)   Members of the Board of Ethics shall serve without compensation,
unless otherwise approved by the legislative body, but shall be reimbursed for
all necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their
duties.
   (F)   The Board of Ethics shall, upon the initial appointment of its
members, and annually thereafter, elect a chairperson from among the
membership. The chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting
member of the Board.
   (G)   Meetings of the Board of Ethics shall be held, as necessary, upon the
call of the chairperson or at the written request of a majority of the members.
   (H)   The presence of two members shall constitute a quorum and the
affirmative vote of two or more members shall be necessary for any official
action to be taken. Any member of the Board of Ethics who has a conflict of
interest with respect to any matter to be considered by the Board shall
disclose the nature of the conflict, shall disqualify himself or herself from
voting on the matter, and shall not be counted for purposes of establishing a
quorum.
   (I)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board of Ethics and
the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in
the minutes.
(2005 Code, § 36.45) (Ord. 94-1002, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 36.061 ALTERNATE MEMBERS.
   The executive authority of the city, with the approval of the legislative
body, may appoint two alternate members of the Board of Ethics who may be
called upon to serve when any regular member of the Board is unable to
discharge his or her duties. An alternate member shall be appointed for a term
of one year. Alternate members shall meet all qualifications and be subject to
all of the requirements of this chapter that apply to regular members.
(2005 Code, § 36.46) (Ord. 94-1002, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 36.062 FACILITIES AND STAFF.
   Within the limits of the funds appropriated by the legislative body in the
annual budget, the city shall provide the Board of Ethics, either directly or
by contract or agreement, with the facilities, materials, supplies, and staff
needed for the conduct of its business.
(2005 Code, § 36.47) (Ord. 94-1002, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 36.063 POWER AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF ETHICS.
   The Board of Ethics shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To initiate on its own motion, receive and investigate complaints,
hold hearings, and make findings of fact and determinations with regard to
alleged violations of the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   To issue orders in connection with its investigations and hearings
requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to the proceedings and to order testimony to be
taken by deposition before any individual designated by the Board who has the
power to administer oaths;
   (C)   To administer oaths and to issue orders requiring the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating to
an investigation or hearing being conducted by the Board;
   (D)   To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to the
executive authority of the city, the city legislative body, the governing body
of any city agency, the County Attorney, or other appropriate person or body,
as necessary;
   (E)   To render advisory opinions to the city and city agency officers and
employees regarding whether a given set of facts and circumstances would
constitute a violation of any provision of this chapter;
   (F)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all officers
and employees of the city and city agencies who are subject to its terms by
issuing appropriate orders and imposing penalties authorized by this chapter;
   (G)   To control and maintain all statements of financial interests that are
required to be filed by this chapter and to ensure that the statements are
available for public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter and the Kentucky Open Records Act;
   (H)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business that may be required by the executive authority or legislative body of
the city; and
   (I)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter, provided that the
rules, regulations, and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law.
(2005 Code, § 36.48) (Ord. 94-1002, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 36.064 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Board of Ethics, or the administrative
official designated by the Board of Ethics. All complaints shall be in writing,
signed by the complainant, and shall meet any other requirements established by
the Board of Ethics. The Board of Ethics shall acknowledge receipt of a
complaint to the complainant within ten working days from the date of receipt.
The Board shall forward within ten working days to each officer or employee of
the city or city agency who is the subject of the complaint a copy of the
complaint and a general statement of the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Within 30 days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the Board of
Ethics shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations contained
in the complaint. The Board shall afford a person who is the subject of the
complaint an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the complaint. The
person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to appear and be
heard under oath, and to offer evidence in response to the allegations.
   (C)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Board of Ethics shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Board, except:
      (1)   The Board may turn over to the Commonwealth’s Attorney or County
Attorney evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings; and
      (2)   If the complainant or alleged violator publicly disclose the
existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Board may publicly confirm the
existence of the inquiry, and, at its discretion, make public any documents
which were issued to either party.
   (D)   The Board shall make a determination based on its preliminary inquiry
whether the complaint is within its jurisdiction and, if so, whether it alleges
a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation of this chapter. If the Board
concludes that the complaint is outside of its jurisdiction, frivolous or
without factual basis, the Board shall immediately terminate the inquiry,
reduce the conclusion to writing, and transmit a copy of its decision to the
complainant and to all officers or employees against whom the complaint was
filed.
   (E)   If the Board of Ethics concludes, based upon its preliminary inquiry,
that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations
sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Board shall notify the officer or employee who is the subject of the complaint
and may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances such as lack of significant
economic advantage or gain by the officer or employee, lack of economic loss to
the city and its taxpayers, or lack of significant impact on public confidence
in city government issue, in writing, a confidential reprimand to the officer
or employee concerning the alleged violation and provide a copy of the
confidential reprimand to the executive authority and governing body of the
city or city agency; and
      (2)   Initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation.
   (F)   Any person who knowingly files with the Board a false complaint
alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter by an officer or employee
of the city or any city agency shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(2005 Code, § 36.49) (Ord. 94-1002, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 36.065 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   If the Board of Ethics determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, the Board shall issue an order setting
the matter for a hearing within 30 days of the date the order is issued, unless
the alleged violator petitions for and the Board consents to a later date. The
order setting the matter for hearing, along with a copy of any pertinent
regulations of the Board relating to the hearing shall be sent to the alleged
violator within 24 hours of the time the order setting a hearing is issued.
(2005 Code, § 36.50) (Ord. 94-1002, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 36.066 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure and the Kentucky Rules of
Evidence shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Board of Ethics; however,
the hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in
accordance with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Board so as
to afford all parties the full range of due process rights required by the
nature of the proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator, or his
or her representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Board in connection with the
matter to be heard. The Board shall inform the alleged violator, or his or her
representative, of any exculpatory evidence in its possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a Board hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to call
and examine witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross-examine witnesses, to
submit evidence, and to be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have the
right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Board, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (E)   All hearings of the Board of Ethics shall be public, unless the
members vote to go into executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810.
   (F)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Ethics shall, as
soon as practicable, begin deliberations in executive session for the purpose
of reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether a
violation of this chapter has been proven. Within 30 days after completion of
the hearing, the Board shall issue a written report of its findings and
conclusions.
   (G)   If the Board concludes in its report that no violation of this chapter
has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this determination to
the officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint and to the party
who filed the complaint.
   (H)   If the Board concludes in its report that in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and convincing proof of a
violation of this chapter, the Board may:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation;
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the executive authority and governing body
(if different than the executive authority) of the city or city agency with
which the violator serves;
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the executive authority and the governing
body that the violator be sanctioned as recommended by the Board, which may
include a recommendation for discipline or dismissal, or removal from office;
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $1,000; and/or
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this chapter or state laws
to the County Attorney or Commonwealth’s Attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
(2005 Code, § 36.51) (Ord. 94-1002, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 36.067 APPEALS.
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the Board of Ethics may appeal the finding to the circuit court of
the county within 30 days after the date of the final action by the Board of
Ethics by filing a petition with the court against the Board. The Board shall
transmit to the Clerk of the court all evidence considered by the Board at the
public hearing.
(2005 Code, § 36.52) (Ord. 94-1002, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 36.068 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one year after
the violation is discovered.
(2005 Code, § 36.53) (Ord. 94-1002, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 36.069 ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics may render advisory opinions concerning matters
under its jurisdiction, based upon real or hypothetical facts and
circumstances, upon its own initiative, or when requested by any officer or
employee of the city or a city agency who is covered by this chapter.
   (B)   An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions. The request for an advisory opinion
shall remain confidential unless confidentiality is waived, in writing, by the
requestor.
   (C)   The Board may adopt regulations, consistent with the Kentucky Open
Records Law, to establish criteria under which it will issue confidential
advisory opinions. All other advisory opinions shall be public documents,
except that before an advisory opinion is made public, it shall be modified so
that the identity of any person associated with the opinion shall not be
revealed.
   (D)   The confidentiality of an advisory opinion may be waived either:
      (1)   In writing by the person who requested the opinion; or
      (2)   By majority vote of the members of the Board, if a person makes or
purports to make public the substance or any portion of an advisory opinion
requested by or on behalf of the person. The Board may vote to make public the
advisory opinion request and related materials.
   (E)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be binding on the
Board in any subsequent proceeding concerning the facts and circumstances of
the particular case if no intervening facts or circumstances arise which would
change the opinion of the Board if they had existed at the time the opinion was
rendered. However, if any fact determined by the Board to be material was
omitted or misstated in the request for an opinion, the Board shall not be
bound by the opinion.
   (F)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be admissible in
the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil proceeding for violations of
this chapter for actions taken in reliance on that opinion.
(2005 Code, § 36.54) (Ord. 94-1002, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 36.070 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall subject to
reprisal, or directly or indirectly use, or threaten to use, any official
authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage,
restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce, or discriminate against any
person who in good faith reports, discloses, divulges, or otherwise brings to
the attention of the Board of Ethics or any other agency or official of the
city or the state any facts or information relative to an actual or suspected
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting disciplinary or
punitive action if an officer or employee of the city or any city agency
discloses information which he or she knows:
      (1)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity;
      (2)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of the
Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 to 61.884; or
      (3)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(2005 Code, § 36.55) (Ord. 94-1002, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 36.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this chapter,
any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by the
Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to a civil fine imposed by the
Board of Ethics not to exceed $1,000, which may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails to pay the penalty
within a prescribed period of time.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by
the Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall
forfeit to the city or the city agency an amount equal to the economic benefit
or gain which the officer or employee is determined by the Board to have
realized as a result of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt, if the offender
fails to pay the amount of the forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board of Ethics that an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency is guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be
sufficient cause for removal, suspension, demotion, or other disciplinary
action by the executive authority of the city or city agency, or by any other
officer or agency having the power of removal or discipline. Any action to
remove or discipline any officer or employee for a violation of this chapter
shall be taken in accordance with all applicable ordinances and regulations of
the city and all applicable laws of the state.
(2005 Code, 36.99)
   (D)   (1)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who
fails or refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice
under division (A) above within the time period established in the notice shall
be guilty of a civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed by
the Board in an amount not to exceed $25 per day, up to a maximum total civil
fine of $500. Any civil fine imposed by the Board under this section may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender
fails or refuses to pay the penalty within a prescribed period of time.
      (2)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial
interests which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally
omits required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(2005 Code, § 36.35) (Ord. 94-1002, passed 10-4-1994)
CHAPTER 37: TAXATION
Section
   
37.01   County assessment adopted
   
37.02   Due date; payment
   
37.03   Delinquency
   
37.04   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles
   
37.05   Ad valorem tax on all property
   
37.06   Disposition of funds
   
37.07   Property tax moratorium program
§ 37.01 COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted in KRS 132.285, the city hereby
adopts the Campbell County assessment for all real and personal property
situated within the city as the basis of all ad valorem tax levies ordered or
approved by the City Council.
   (B)   The assessment as finally determined for county tax purposes shall
serve as the basis for all city levies for the fiscal year commencing after the
assessment date.
§ 37.02 DUE DATE; PAYMENT.
   All taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall become due on
December 1.
§ 37.03 DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   All city taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall
become delinquent on January 1 following their due dates.
   (B)   Any taxes not paid by the date when they become delinquent shall be
subject to a penalty of 10% on the taxes due and unpaid. The delinquent
taxpayer shall also pay all costs and expenses incidental to any action taken
by the city for collection of the delinquent tax bill.
   (C)   Delinquent taxes shall be collectable under the provisions of the
state law relating to the collection of delinquent taxes by cities.
§ 37.04 AD VALOREM TAXES ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   All ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall be collected by the
Campbell County Clerk in accordance with KRS 134.800.
   (B)   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall become due and delinquent as
set forth in KRS 134.810, and any taxes not paid by the date when they become
delinquent shall be subject to the penalty and interest specified in KRS
134.810.
§ 37.05 AD VALOREM TAX ON ALL PROPERTY.
   (A)   There shall be an ad valorem tax each year on all property situated in
the city, said tax to be due December 31 and delinquent January 1. All taxes
which remain unpaid at the time they become delinquent shall be subject to a
10% penalty and a 12% per annum interest. The assessment of all property, real
and personal, in the city, as made by the County Tax Commissioner, is hereby
adopted as the assessment on the property for the city for the purpose of this
tax and the city assessment list shall be made from the County Tax
Commissioner’s Assessment list, after it has been supervised and corrected by
the County Board of Equalization. The tax herein shall be collected by the City
Clerk.
   (B)   The rate of taxation for the city for each year shall be determined by
the City Council for each $100 of assessed valuation for real estate, a rate
for each $100 of assessed valuation of motor vehicle and a rate for each $100
of assessed valuation for other personal property. Waste collection charges
shall be included on the real estate tax bill. All of the amount shall be, and
is, hereby taxed for the General Fund of the city.
   (C)   The taxes herein shall be collected by the City Clerk.
   (D)   A lien is hereby created against all property in the city to secure
payment of the ad valorem tax provided herein. The lien shall exist and shall
be enforceable for a period of 11 years from the date of assessment and shall
not, during such period, be defeated or cease to exist except by the payment of
the tax. Payment of the tax shall satisfy the lien and shall release and
discharge the property concerned therefrom.
(2005 Code, § 37.05) (Ord. 94-1201, passed 12-16-1994; Ord. 95-1001, passed 10-
16-1995; Ord. 96-10-01, passed 10-8-1996, Ord. 05-09-01, passed 10-4-2005; Ord.
06-10-01, passed 10-9-2006; Ord. 07-09-02, passed 10-2-2007; Ord. 09-10-01,
passed 11-3-2009; Ord. 10-09-01, passed 10-12-2010; Ord. 11-09-01, passed 10-4-
2011; Ord. 12-09-02, passed 10-2-2012; Ord. 13-08-01, passed 9-5-2013; Ord. 15-
09-02, passed 10-1-2015; Ord. 14-09-02, passed 10-2-2014; Ord. 16-10-01, passed
11-3-2016; Ord. 17-09-01, passed 10-5-2017; Ord. 19-0902, passed 11-7-2019;
Ord. 21-0901, passed 10-7-2021; Ord. 22-0901, passed 10-6-2022; Ord. 23-0901,
passed 10-5-2023; Ord. 24-0901, passed 10-3-2024)
§ 37.06 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All monies collected from the taxes levied in this chapter shall be paid
into the General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Council.
§ 37.07 PROPERTY TAX MORATORIUM PROGRAM.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of KRS 99.959 to 99.605 and 132.452, the
City of Silver Grove establishes a program granting property assessment or
reassessment moratoriums for existing residential or commercial facilities.
Said moratorium shall be in effect for a period of five years following the
date of the issuance of a moratorium certificate. Said program shall be
administered by the City Clerk.
   (B)   Any residential or commercial property owner may apply to Silver Grove
City Council for a property assessment or reassessment moratorium certificate.
Said application shall be made within 30 days before the commencement of
restoration, repair, rehabilitation, or stabilization on a form as prescribed
by the Department of Revenue. Said application shall additionally contain or be
accompanied by a general description of the property and proposed restoration,
repair, rehabilitation, or stabilization as outlined in KRS 99.605(1) and as
required by the Mayor. The City Clerk shall maintain a record of all
applications for property assessment or reassessment moratorium certificates.
Within 30 days after filing of the application, the City Clerk shall have the
property valuation administrator reassess the property, or if the property
valuation administrator is unavailable, the City Clerk shall enter the most
recent tax history valuation from the Campbell County PVA as the value of the
property.
   (C)   Thereafter, the owner shall have two years to complete the
restoration, repair, rehabilitation, or stabilization project. After completion
of the project, the City Inspector shall issue a moratorium certificate which
shall become effective on the assessment date next following the issuance and
for a period of five years thereafter. On the assessment date next following
the expiration, cancellation or revocation of the moratorium certificate, the
property shall be assessed on the basis of its full fair cash value.
   (D)   Pursuant to KRS 99.600(5) Any property granted a reassessment
moratorium may be eligible for a subsequent moratorium certification provided
that re-application be made no sooner than three years following the expiration
of the original moratorium, or any other moratorium and provided that such
property shall otherwise meet the requirements for the reassessment moratorium.
   (E)   Pursuant to KRS 99.605(5) An assessment or reassessment moratorium
certificate may be transferred or assigned by the holder of the certificate to
a new owner or lessee of the property.
(Ord. 19-0601, passed 7-17-2019)
CHAPTER 38: CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
Section
   
38.01   Definitions
   
38.02   Board established; members
   
38.03   Enforcement powers
   
38.04   Appointment of members; term of office; removal
   
38.05   Organization of Board; meetings
   
38.06   Conflict of interest
   
38.07   Powers of the Board
   
38.08   Enforcement proceedings
   
38.09   Hearing; notice; and final order
   
38.10   Presentation of cases
   
38.11   Appeals; final judgment
   
38.12   Fee schedule
   
38.13   Lienholder notification system
   
38.14   Liens
   
38.15   Conflict of lien regulations
§ 38.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions set forth in KRS 65.8805 and KRS 65.8840 are incorporated as
though set forth fully herein and shall include the following terms.
   ABATE. To repair, replace, remove, destroy, or otherwise remedy a condition
which constitutes a violation of this chapter by such means and in such a
manner and to such an extent as the applicable Code Enforcement Officer
determines is necessary in the interest of the general health, safety, and
welfare of the community.
   CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY. Any real property on which three or more nuisance
activities exist or have occurred during any 365-day period.
   CONTROL. The ability to regulate, restrain, dominate, counteract, or govern
property or conduct that occurs on a property.
   DRUG-RELATED ACTIVITY. Any unlawful activity at a property which consists of
the manufacturing, delivery, sale, storage, possession, or giving away of any
drug.
   ORDINANCE. An official action of a local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law,
and shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by the city
legislative body which embodies all or part of an ordinance.
(Ord. 16-1101, passed 12-1-2016; Ord. 17-1201, passed 1-4-2018)
§ 38.02 BOARD ESTABLISHED; MEMBERS.
   There is hereby created pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to KRS 65.8839, a Code
Enforcement Board which shall be composed of three members, all of whom shall
be residents of the city for a period of at least one year prior to the
creation of the Code Enforcement Board, and shall reside there throughout the
term in office.
(Ord. 16-1101, passed 12-1-2016)
§ 38.03 ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial
orders and impose civil fines as a method of enforcing city ordinances when a
violation of the ordinance has been classified as a civil offense.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Board shall not have the authority to enforce any
ordinance, the violation of which constitutes a criminal offense under any
provision of the Kentucky Revised Statutes, including specifically, any
provision of the Kentucky Penal Code and any moving motor vehicle offense.
(Ord. 16-1101, passed 12-1-2016)
§ 38.04 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL.
   (A)   Appointment. Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be appointed
by the Mayor of the city, subject to the approval of the City Council.
   (B)   Term of office.
      (1)   The initial appointment to the Code Enforcement Board shall be as
follows:
         (a)   One member shall be appointed for a term of one year;
         (b)   One member shall be appointed for a term of two years; and
         (c)   One member shall be appointed for a term of three years.
      (2)   All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of three years. A
member may be reappointed, subject to the approval of the City Council.
   (C)   Alternate members. The Mayor may appoint, subject to the approval of
the City Council, two alternate members to serve on the Board in the absence of
regular members. Alternate members shall meet all of the qualifications and
shall be subject to all of the requirements that apply to regular members of
the Code Enforcement Board.
   (D)   Vacancies. Any vacancy on the Code Enforcement Board shall be filled
by the Mayor, subject to approval of the City Council within 60 days of the
vacancy. If the vacancy is not filled within that time period, the remaining
Board members shall fill the vacancy. A vacancy shall be filled for the
remainder of the unexpired term.
   (E)   Removal from office. A Board member may be removed from office by the
Mayor for misconduct, inefficiency, or willful neglect of duty. The Mayor shall
submit a written statement to the member and the City Council setting forth the
reasons for removal. The member so removed shall have the right of appeal to
the County Circuit Court.
   (F)   Oath. All members of the Code Enforcement Board must, before entering
upon the duties of their office, take the oath of office prescribed by § 228 of
the state’s Constitution.
   (G)   Members disallowed to hold other positions with city. No member of the
Board shall hold any elected or nonelected office, paid or unpaid, or any
position of employment with the city.
(Ord. 16-1101, passed 12-1-2016)
§ 38.05 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD; MEETINGS.
   (A)   Chair. The Code Enforcement Board shall annually elect a Chair from
among its members. The Chair shall be the presiding officer and a full voting
member of the Board. If the Chair is not present, the Board shall select one of
its members to preside in place of and exercise the powers of the Chair.
   (B)   Meetings. Meetings of the Board shall be held as necessary on the
first and third Tuesday of each month at 7:00 p.m. as needed to enforce all
civil offenses established by the city’s code of ordinances. Meetings other
than those regularly scheduled shall be special meetings or emergency meetings
held in accordance with the requirements of the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (C)   Open meetings. All meetings and hearings of the Board shall be held in
accordance with the requirements of KRS 65.8815(5) and the Kentucky Open
Meetings Act.
   (D)   Quorum. The presence of at least a majority of the Code Enforcement
Board’s entire membership and/or alternate membership shall constitute a
quorum. The affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of the Board shall be
necessary for any official action to be taken.
   (E)   Minutes. Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board and
the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in
the minutes.
   (F)   Clerical and administrative assistance. The city shall provide
clerical and administrative personnel as reasonably required by its Code
Enforcement Board for the proper conduct of its duties.
(Ord. 16-1101, passed 12-1-2016)
§ 38.06 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Any member of the Code Enforcement Board who has any direct or indirect
financial or personal interest in any matter to be decided shall disclose the
nature of the interest and shall disqualify himself or herself from voting on
the matter in which he or she has an interest and shall not be counted for
purposes of establishing a quorum.
(Ord. 16-1101, passed 12-1-2016)
§ 38.07 POWERS OF THE BOARD.
   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To adopt rules and regulations to govern its operations and the
conduct of its hearings consistent with this chapter;
   (B)   To conduct hearings to determine if there has been a violation of an
ordinance over which it has jurisdiction;
   (C)   To subpoena alleged violators, witnesses, and evidence to its
hearings. Subpoenas issued by the Code Enforcement Board may be served by any
Code Enforcement Officer;
   (D)   To take testimony under oath. The Chair shall have the authority to
administer oaths for the purpose of taking testimony;
   (E)   To make findings of fact and issue orders necessary to remedy any
violation of a city ordinance or code provision which the Code Enforcement
Board is authorized to enforce; and
   (F)   To impose civil fines, as authorized, on any person found to have
violated an ordinance over which the Board has jurisdiction.
(Ord. 16-1101, passed 12-1-2016)
§ 38.08 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Code Enforcement Board.
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings before the Code Enforcement Board shall only
be initiated by the issuance of a citation by a Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, if a Code Enforcement
Officer reasonably believes, based on his or her personal observation or
investigation, that a person has violated a city ordinance, he or she shall
issue a notice of violation to the offender allowing the offender a specified
period of time to remedy or abate the violation without fine. If the offender
fails or refuses to remedy the violation within the time specified, the Code
Enforcement Officer is authorized to issue a citation.
   (C)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit the city from taking
immediate action to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is reason
to believe that the violation presents a serious threat to the public health,
safety, and welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of
the violation will be irreparable or irreversible.
   (D)   The Code Enforcement Officer may issue the citation by:
      (1)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
      (2)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person 18 years of age or
older, who is on the premises, if the alleged violator is not on the premises
at the time the citation is issued; or
      (3)   Posting a copy of the citation in a conspicuous place on the
premises and mailing a copy of the citation by regular, first class mail to the
owner of record of the property, if no one is on the premises at the time the
citation is issued.
   (E)   The citation issued by the Code Enforcement Officer shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The date and time the offense was committed;
      (4)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (5)   The section of the code or the number of the ordinance violated;
      (6)   The name of the Code Enforcement Officer;
      (7)   The civil fine that will be imposed for the violation if the person
does not contest the citation;
      (8)   The maximum civil fine that may be imposed if the person elects to
contest the citation;
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (10)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation within the time allowed:
         (a)   The person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing
before the Code Enforcement Board to contest the citation;
         (b)   The determination that a violation committed shall be final; and
         (c)   Deemed to have waived the right to appeal the final order to the
District Court.
   (F)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall notify the Code Enforcement Board by delivering the citation to
City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (G)   (1)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven days of the date of issuance by either paying the civil
fine or requesting, in writing, a hearing before the Board to contest the
citation. If the person fails to respond to the citation within seven days, the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing or appeal and the
determination that a violation was committed shall be considered final. In this
event, the citation as issued shall be deemed a final order determining that
the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine as set forth in the
citation, and the person shall be deemed to have waived the right to appeal the
final order to District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the notice.
(Ord. 16-1101, passed 12-1-2016)
§ 38.09 HEARING; NOTICE; AND FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   Scheduling of hearings. When a hearing has been requested, the Code
Enforcement Board or its administrative staff shall schedule a hearing.
   (B)   Notice. Not less than seven days before the date of the hearing, the
Board shall notify the requester of the date, time, and place of the hearing.
The notice may be given by certified mail, return receipt requested; by
personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual place of
residence with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older
and who is informed of the contents of the notice.
   (C)   Failure to appear at hearing.
      (1)   Any person requesting a hearing who fails to appear at the time and
place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing
to contest the citation, and the determination that a violation was committed
shall be final. In this event, the citation as issued shall be deemed a final
order determining the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine set
forth in the citation, and the alleged violator shall be deemed to have waived
the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the notice.
   (D)   Testimony. All testimony shall be taken under oath and recorded.
Testimony shall be taken from the Code Enforcement Officer, the alleged
violator, and any witnesses to the violation offered by the Code Enforcement
Officer or alleged violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but
fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (E)   Findings of fact and final determination. The Code Enforcement Board
shall, based on the evidence, determine whether a violation was committed. If
the Board determines that no violation was committed, an order dismissing the
citation shall be entered. If the Board determines that a violation was
committed, the Board shall issue an order upholding the citation and either
imposing a fine up to the maximum authorized by this chapter or another
ordinance, or requiring the offender to remedy a continuing violation within a
specified time, or both.
   (F)   Final orders to be written. Every final order of the Code Enforcement
Board shall be reduced to writing, which shall include the findings and
conclusions of the Board and the date the order was issued. A copy shall be
furnished to the person named in the citation. If the person named in the
citation is not present when the final order is issued, the order shall be
delivered to that person by certified mail, return receipt requested; by
personal delivery; or by leaving a copy of the order at the person’s usual
place of residence with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age
or older and who is informed of the contents of the order.
(Ord. 16-1101, passed 12-1-2016)
§ 38.10 PRESENTATION OF CASES.
   Each case before the Code Enforcement Board shall be presented by an
attorney selected by the city, a Code Enforcement Officer for the city, or by a
member of the city’s administrative staff. The city attorney may either be
counsel to the Code Enforcement Board or may present cases before the Code
Enforcement Board, but shall in no case serve in both capacities.
(Ord. 16-1101, passed 12-1-2016)
§ 38.11 APPEALS; FINAL JUDGMENT.
   (A)   Appeal. An appeal from any final order of the Code Enforcement Board
may be made to the County District Court within 30 days of the date the order
is issued. The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint and a
copy of the Board’s order in the same manner as any civil action under the
state’s Rules of Civil Procedure. The appeal shall be tried de novo. A judgment
of the County District Court may be appealed to the County Circuit Court in
accordance with the state’s Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   Final judgment. If no appeal from a final order of the Board is filed
within the time period set in division (A) above, the Board’s order shall be
deemed final for all purposes.
(Ord. 16-1101, passed 12-1-2016)
§ 38.12 FEE SCHEDULE.
   Violation of ordinances that are enforced by the Board shall be subject to
the following schedule of civil fines.
   (A)   If the first and second citation for a violation of an ordinance is
not contested by the person charged with the violation, the penalties set forth
in this division (A) shall apply with said penalty being imposed for each and
every day during which said violation continues. For any third or subsequent
citation issued for the same violation, the penalty must be established at a
hearing of the Board.
Violation Penalty (1st and 2nd Citation)
Violation                       Penalty (1st and 2nd Citation)
Fire Prevention Code Violations $50
Life Safety Code Violations     $50
Nuisance                        $50
Occupational License            $50
Other                           $50
Parking                         $50
Property Maintenance Code       $50
Zoning                          $50
 
   (B)   If a citation is contested or a hearing before the Board is required,
the following penalties may be imposed at the discretion of the Board for each
and every day said violation continues; however, the Board may waive all or any
portion of a penalty if it determines such waiver will promote compliance with
the ordinance in issue.
Violation 1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Violation                       1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Fire Prevention Code Violations $50-$1,000  $100-$1,500 $200-$2,000
Life Safety Code Violations     $50-$1,000  $100-$1,500 $200-$2,000
Nuisance                        $25-$500    $50-$1,000  $75-$2,000
Occupational License            $50-$1,000  $500-$1,000 $200-$2,000
Other                           $25-$500    $50-$1,000  $75-$2,000
Parking                         $30-$100    $50-$200    $75-$500
Property Maintenance Code       $25-$500    $50-$1,000  $75-$2,000
Zoning                          $25-$500    $50-$1,000  $75-$2,000
 
   (C)   The city shall possess a lien on property owned by the person found by
a non-appealable final order, or by a final judgment of the court, to have
committed a violation of a city ordinance. The lien shall be for all civil
fines assessed for the violation and for all charges and fees incurred by the
city in connection with the enforcement of the ordinance, including abatement
costs and attorney’s fees. An affidavit of the Code Enforcement Officer shall
constitute prima facie evidence of the amount of the lien and regularity of the
proceedings pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839.
   (D)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The lien
shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear
interest until paid. The lien shall continue for ten years following the date
of the non-appealable final order or final court judgment.
   (E)   The lien shall take precedence over all other liens, except state,
county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial
proceedings, including a foreclosure action.
   (F)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (A) above, the person
found to have committed the violation shall be personally responsible for the
amount of all civil fines assessed for the violation and for all charges, fees,
attorney’s fees, and abatement costs incurred by the city in connection with
the enforcement of the ordinance. The city may bring a civil action against the
person and shall have the same remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt.
(Ord. 16-1101, passed 12-1-2016)
§ 38.13 LIENHOLDER NOTIFICATION SYSTEM.
   The city shall obtain and maintain priority over previously filed liens in
accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   Individuals and entities, including, but not limited to lienholders,
may register with the city to receive electronic notification of final orders;
   (B)   To receive the notification, the registrant shall submit the following
information to the City Clerk:
      (1)   Name;
      (2)   Mailing address;
      (3)   Phone number; and
      (4)   Electronic mailing address.
   (C)   A registrant may use the form provided on the city website to submit
the information required in division (B) above. It shall be the responsibility
of the registrant to maintain and update the required contact information with
the city. The city shall inform a registrant of any evidence received that the
electronic mailing address is invalid or not functional so that the registrant
may provide an updated electronic mailing address;
   (D)   Once per month, the city shall send electronic mail notification of
all final orders since the last date of notification to each party registered
pursuant to this section. The notification shall provide an electronic link to
the city code enforcement database located on the city website. The database
shall include the following information regarding each final order:
      (1)   The name of the person charged with a violation;
      (2)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (3)   The last known mailing address for the owner of the premises where
the violation occurred;
      (4)   A specific description of the citation leading to the final order,
including the citation detail set forth in KRS 65.8825(4)(a) to (4)(h), which
may be satisfied by including a copy of the full citation;
      (5)   The findings of the final order, including the penalty or penalties
imposed by the final order, which may be satisfied by providing a copy of the
full final order; and
      (6)   The status of the final order in regards to its ability to be
appealed.
   (E)   If an appeal is filed on a final order pursuant to this chapter, the
city shall send electronic mail notification to all registrants;
   (F)   Within ten days of the issuance of a final order pursuant to this
chapter, the city shall update its code enforcement database to reflect the
issued final order, and shall post the notification required by divisions (C)
or (D) above containing an updated link to the code enforcement database on the
city website; and
   (G)   The city shall maintain the records created under this section for ten
years following their issuance.
(Ord. 16-1101, passed 12-1-2016)
§ 38.14 LIENS.
   (A)   A lienholder of record who has registered pursuant to §
38.13 may, within 45 days from the date of issuance of notification under §
38.13 may:
      (1)   Correct the violation, if it has not already been abated; or
      (2)   Pay all civil fines assessed for the violation, and all charges and
fees incurred by the city in connection with enforcement of the ordinance,
including attorney’s fees and abatement costs.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action if necessary under §
38.08.
   (C)   The lien provided by §
38.13 shall not take precedence over previously recorded liens if:
      (1)   The city failed to comply with the requirements of §
38.13 for notification of the final order; or
      (2)   A prior lienholder completed the actions listed in division (A)
above.
   (D)   A lien that does not take precedence over previously recorded liens
under division (C) above shall, if the final order remains partially
unsatisfied, continue to take precedence over all other subsequent liens except
liens for state, county, school board, and city taxes.
   (E)   The city may record a lien before the 45-day period established in
division (A) above expires. If the lien is fully satisfied prior to the
expiration of the 45-day period, the city shall release the lien in the County
Clerk’s office where the lien is recorded within 15 days of satisfaction.
   (F)   Failure of the city to comply with §
38.13 or this section, or failure of a lien to take precedence over previously
filed liens as provided in division (C) above, shall not limit or restrict any
other remedies the city has against the property of the violator.
(Ord. 16-1101, passed 12-1-2016)
§ 38.15 CONFLICT OF LIEN REGULATIONS.
   This chapter shall not be interpreted or otherwise construed to affect the
status, priority, or enforcement of any lien that was created and existed
pursuant to the provisions of KRS 82.725 or KRS 381.770 prior to January 1,
2017.
(Ord. 16-1101, passed 12-1-2016)
CHAPTER 39: PLANS AND POLICIES
Section
   
39.01   Hazard Mitigation Plan
§ 39.01 HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   (A)   Adoption. The city adopts the Northern Kentucky Regional Hazard
Mitigation Plan as the official hazard mitigation plan of the city of Silver
Grove, Kentucky.
   (B)   County Office of Emergency Management: responsibility and authority.
The city vests the County Office of Emergency Management with the
responsibility, authority, and the means to:
      (1)   Inform all concerned parties of this action; and
      (2)   Develop an addendum to this hazard mitigation plan if the
jurisdiction's unique situation warrants such an addendum.
   (C)   Committee appointed.
      (1)   The city appoints Northern Kentucky Area Development District
Regional Mitigation Committee to assure that the hazard mitigation plan be
reviewed according to the plan maintenance procedures and that any needed
adjustment to the plan be developed and presented to the County Mitigation
Committee and to the City Council for consideration.
      (2)   That the city agrees to consider any other official actions as may
be reasonably necessary to carry out the objectives of the Northern Kentucky
Regional Hazard Mitigation Action Plan for the city.
(Res. 17-0701, passed 7-6-2017)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
   
50.01   Garbage container requirements
   
50.02   Type and condition of containers
   
50.03   Owner and tenant responsibility
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 GARBAGE CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Each residential, industrial, institutional, and/or commercial
establishment, or person having refuse, shall provide or be provided approved
refuse containers and shall place and keep all refuse therein. It shall be the
responsibility of the property owner to provide containers to his or her
tenants.
   (B)   Containers shall not be placed on the street right-of-way prior to
noon, local time, on the day before scheduled collections, shall be removed
before midnight, local time, the day of scheduled collections, and shall be
stored so that the containers cannot be viewed from the street(s) (e.g., the
container shall be stored at the side or rear of the property being served or
within an opaque enclosure or structure such as a shed or garage) until the
next designated collection day.
   (C)   At times of collection by the city, all garbage cans and trash
containers shall be placed at the curbside or alley designated by the city. No
garbage shall be kept upon any city or public property or neighboring property
not in the ownership or tenancy of the person by whom the garbage is
accumulated, whether such neighboring property shall be vacant or improved.
Refuse containers shall, for the purpose of collection, be placed at ground
level and be made readily accessible to the collector.
   (D)   Notwithstanding provisions above, householders, commercial
establishment, or other persons may, by contract with collectors and approval
of the city, be permitted to place containers at agreed places upon their
premises.
(Ord. 07-1201, passed 1-7-2008; Ord. 12-0501, passed 6-5-2012) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.02 TYPE AND CONDITION OF CONTAINERS.
   (A)   All garbage cans and trash containers shall be maintained in good
condition and repair. All receptacles shall be provided with a cover
sufficiently tight to prevent flies and/or other insects and/or animals from
having access to the contents of the receptacles. Storage of garbage or trash
in an open garbage can or trash container is not permitted.
   (B)   When filled for collection, containers may not exceed a weight
limitation of 75 pounds unless stipulated herein.
   (C)   A non-containerized amount of garden-type trash, such as tree limbs or
weeds, may be put out for collection providing the bundle does not exceed 75
pounds. Non-containerized waste shall be suitably bound, lengths not to exceed
four feet, and/or boxed or packaged in waterproof containers to permit handling
for collection without coming apart.
(Ord. 07-1201, passed 1-7-2008) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 OWNER AND TENANT RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be the responsibility of the owner and any tenant of any property
to see that the provisions of this chapter are complied with.
(Ord. 07-1201, passed 1-7-2008) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the above noted provisions shall be
subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $250, and each day of
violation of any of the above noted provisions shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the above noted provisions may be issued a
city parking violation notice and may pay the minimum fine of $25 to the city
at the City Building, 106 Oak Street, Silver Grove, Kentucky 41085. If
enforcement is necessary through the Campbell District Court, then the penalty
may be up to the amount of $250 as noted above.
(Ord. 07-1201, passed 1-7-2008)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Temporary regulations
   
70.04   Statutory provisions adopted by reference
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   Signal legends
   
70.21   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.22   Obedience to signals
   
70.23   Interference with signals
   
70.24   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.25   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.26   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
Motor Vehicle Stickers or Tags
   
70.40   Exemption
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney’s office when on official
business, and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing such BOULEVARD.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and such other portions of the roadway
between two intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and
marked by stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION. The part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle, whether or not
one such street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the Chief
of Police.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Chief of
Police and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform duties or any other acts necessary to implement and
enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and foot
paths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to proceed
in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. The portion of any street, improved, designated, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses, and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn on any street except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
(2005 Code, § 70.01)
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate
any of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in
this traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
(2005 Code, § 70.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
shall, at his or her discretion, have authority to impose such traffic
regulations as he or she may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed
two weeks. If these temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer
than two weeks, the City Clerk shall be notified in writing of the extended
order.
(2005 Code, § 70.05)
§ 70.04 STATUTORY PROVISIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions for traffic regulation and equipment of vehicles as provided
for in KRS Chapter 189 are hereby made a part of this code by reference.
(2005 Code, § 70.06) (Ord. 12, passed 6-1-1951)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “Go”, “Caution”, or “Stop”, or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows:
   (A)   Green alone or “Go”. Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time
such signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or
“Go” signal. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “Stop”. Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such
other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or “Go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed
until it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by such
signal.
   (F)   “Yield Right-of-Way”. Vehicular traffic facing the “Yield Right-of-
Way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within such primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a “Yield Right-of-Way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of l5 mph, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles entering an
expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights. When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane, all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above such lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at such place prohibits
such turn.
(2005 Code, § 70.15) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.21 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
(2005 Code, § 70.16)
§ 70.22 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for such
barrier or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   Such sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority
as the personal direction of a police officer.
(2005 Code, § 70.17) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
(2005 Code, § 70.18) Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.24 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the
movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal. No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal bearing any commercial
advertising. Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily
from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been
approved by the city.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
(2005 Code, § 70.19) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
(2005 Code, § 70.20)
§ 70.26 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency, any police officer may at his or her discretion disregard
traffic-control lights or signals or established regulations in order to
facilitate the movement of traffic.
(2005 Code, § 70.21)
MOTOR VEHICLE STICKERS OR TAGS
§ 70.40 EXEMPTION.
   The licensing requirements of this subchapter shall not apply to any motor
vehicle which is exempt from municipal licensing requirements by virtue of
state or federal laws.
(2005 Code, § 70.34)
Statutory reference:
   Exemption for vehicles operating under common carrier permits, see KRS
281.830
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
(2005 Code, § 70.99)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
   
71.05   Speed limit
Accidents
   
71.20   Duty of operator
   
71.21   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.35   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.36   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.37   Smoke emission or other nuisance
   
71.38   Compression release type engine brakes
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he or she shall be deemed to have violated this
division (C) rather than division (B) above.
(2005 Code, § 71.01) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8)) (2005 Code, § 71.02) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
(2005 Code, § 71.03) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Chief of Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension. On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building, the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. The operator
of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley from the
roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
(2005 Code, § 71.04) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 SPEED LIMIT.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be operated at a speed in excess of 15 mph in and
upon the streets of the city, except as may be more specifically indicated for
those streets listed in
Chapter 74, Schedule III.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be subject to the fine schedule in
KRS 189.394.
(2005 Code, § 71.05) (Ord. 12, passed 6-1-1951)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish speed limits, see KRS 189.390(4)
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.20 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render such assistance as may be needed.
(2005 Code, § 71.15) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.21 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner, or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
(2005 Code, § 71.16) Penalty, see §
71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.35 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure the highway.
   (C)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure vehicles or equipment located in or near a highway
work zone.
   (D)   A person shall not operate any vehicle in a reckless or negligent
manner as to endanger persons or property in or near a highway, or in or near a
highway work zone.
   (E)   In addition to any other penalty, an operator who violates division
(C) or (D) of this section shall be subject to revocation of his or her
operator's license under KRS 186.560.
(KRS 189.290) (2005 Code, § 71.25) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.36 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
emergency vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the
right-of-way, immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as
possible to, the edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and
stop and remain in stopped until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when
otherwise directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall remain stopped until the
emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer or
firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he or she
drive into, park the vehicle into, or park the vehicle within, the block where
the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he or
she is directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train, or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway, or track for use at any fire or fire alarm unless the fire
department official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   The provisions of division (F) of this section shall apply to any
driver approaching a stationary:
      (1)   Emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when the emergency
vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal by displaying alternately
flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or blue lights; or
      (2)   Disabled vehicle, when the disabled vehicle is displaying some type
of warning signal, such as emergency flashers, flares, or retroreflective
signals.
   (F)   The driver of a vehicle that is approaching a vehicle described in
division (E) of this section shall, while proceeding with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes,
with at least two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the approaching
vehicle; and
         (b)   It is possible to make the lane change with due regard to safety
and traffic conditions; or
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if the road has less than four lanes or if changing lanes would be
impossible or unsafe.
   (F)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) (2005 Code, § 71.26) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.37 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke, or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) (2005 Code, § 71.27) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.38 COMPRESSION RELEASE TYPE ENGINE BRAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use or operate or
cause to be used or operated within the city any mechanical exhaust devise,
motor brake, or any other type of compression release type braking system that
utilizes engine compression release or engine retarders (commonly referred to
as “Jake Braking”) as a means of slowing or braking the speed of a tractor,
semi-truck, motor carrier and/or bus in lieu of applying the clutch or brakes.
(Ord. 10-0401, passed 4-13-2010) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.36 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $60 nor
more than $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 30 days,
or both.
   (C)   Any person violating §
71.38 shall be punished by a fine of $200 for each offense.
(KRS 189.993(8)) (2005 Code, § 71.99) (Ord. 10-0401, passed 4-13-2010)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   Parking on parade route
   
72.07   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.08   Owner responsibility
   
72.09   Parking in parks
   
72.10   Parking with handicapped permits
   
72.11   [Reserved]
   
72.12   Storage of inoperative vehicles
   
72.13   Making vehicle repairs on streets
   
72.14   Parking at certain locations
   
72.15   Parking of recreational vehicles; trucks and trailers in residential
zone
   
72.16   Parking oversized trucks and other vehicles
   
72.17   Additional parking regulations
Impounding
   
72.30   Required notice to owner; sale of a vehicle
   
72.31   Sale of the contents of a vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.45   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.46   Termination of emergency
   
72.47   Snow emergency routes
   
72.48   Snow emergency parking
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines, and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS
65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
(2005 Code, § 72.01) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that such
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. Such backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway of moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the centerline of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet
of the centerline of any street. Such diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which such vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park such
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
(2005 Code, § 72.02) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park such
vehicle except in a case of real emergency or in compliance with the provisions
of this traffic code, or when directed by a police officer or traffic sign or
signal at any time in the following places:
   (A)   On the mainly-traveled portion of any roadway or on any other place in
the roadway where vehicles stand in any manner other than as specified in §
72.02;
   (B)   On a sidewalk;
   (C)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities;
   (D)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (E)   Within an intersection or crosswalk, or within 15 feet of any
intersection;
   (F)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking. This
does not apply to police officers when operating properly identified vehicles
during the performance of their official duties;
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle or place any
obstruction within five feet of any fire hydrant within the city limits; and
   (H)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area.
(KRS 189.450(5), (6)) (2005 Code, § 72.03) (Ord. 19, passed 4-4-1952; Ord. 82-
06-01, passed 6-1-1982) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his or her duty to observe other and more
restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of
vehicles in specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever, under
authority of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance, any parking limit
is imposed or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are
restricted to handicapped parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving
notice thereof. However, in lieu of erecting such signs or in conjunction
therewith, the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking
is prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No such regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the
signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the
time of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions
which by their very nature would not require such signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
(2005 Code, § 72.04) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
(2005 Code, § 72.05) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his or her judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a
part of the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs
to that effect, and to prohibit and prevent such parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of such signs or directions.
(2005 Code, § 72.06) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another’s property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee, or person in charge of such property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise trespass
in violation of division (A) above, the owner, lessee, or person in charge of
the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle removed in
accordance with the provisions of §§
72.30 and
72.31.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the owner’s
expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B) above.
(2005 Code, § 72.07) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.08 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
(2005 Code, § 72.08) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway. However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any such park or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on such roadway.
(2005 Code, § 72.09) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING WITH HANDICAPPED PERMITS.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for handicapped persons, when operated by a
handicapped person or when transporting a handicapped person, may be parked in
a designated handicapped parking place, or when parked in a metered parking
space may be parked for two hours for no fee, or when parked where any parking
limit is imposed may be parked for two hours in excess of the parking limit.
The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone for that period of time
necessary to permit entrance or exit of the handicapped person to or from the
parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a “no stopping” or “no
parking” zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon, or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
(2005 Code, § 72.10) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 [RESERVED].
§ 72.12 STORAGE OF INOPERATIVE VEHICLES.
   No motor vehicle which is inoperable shall be stored on any lot in any zone
or on any parcel of ground within the city unless it is in a completely
enclosed building. Any motor vehicle that is stored in violation of this
section may be towed away and impounded as set forth in §§
72.30 and 70.31 at the expense of the owner or operator, which expense shall
include the cost of towing and all storage charges.
(2005 Code, § 72.12) (Ord. 86-0602, passed 7-1-1986) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 MAKING VEHICLE REPAIRS ON STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to repair any automotive vehicle
upon public streets, alleys, or easements in the city.
   (B)   The making of repairs upon automotive vehicles is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance for the reason that such repairs have a tendency to block
and impede traffic upon the city streets, thereby creating a hazard to the
detriment of the citizens.
(2005 Code, § 72.13) (Ord. 76, passed 7-1-1969) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.14 PARKING AT CERTAIN LOCATIONS.
   (A)   There shall be no parking of motor vehicles too near to intersections
or other locations where parking is prohibited as noted by the curbs or other
surfaces being painted yellow, or where prohibited by no parking signs. This
shall include, but not be limited to, no parking within 20 feet of the corner
of every intersection in the city in every direction, except for along Route 8
and Four Mile Road in the city.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be abandoned along any road within the city.
Abandonment shall be presumed if the vehicle has been parked at one location in
excess of 72 hours and there are other indications of abandonment such as the
vehicle being inoperable.
   (C)   There shall be no parking of motor vehicles within any fire lanes or
in a location too close to fireplugs as such locations are marked by the curbs
or the surfaces being painted yellow.
   (D)   There shall be no parking of motor vehicles within any fire lanes or
in a location too close to fireplugs as such locations are marked by the curbs
or the surfaces being painted yellow.
   (E)   Any motor vehicle that shall be parked in violation of any of the
above noted provisions shall be subject to being towed away at the expense of
the owner and/or operator of said motor vehicle, which expense shall include
the towing charge plus storage fees.
(2005 Code, § 72.14) (Ord. 90-0801, passed 9-4-1990) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.15 PARKING OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES; TRUCKS AND TRAILERS IN RESIDENTIAL
ZONE.
   (A)   No person shall allow a recreational vehicle, not in daily use for
purposes of transportation, to be parked, or otherwise located on a public
street, or in the front or side yard line of any residence or commercial
property as established by city ordinance, or any property located in the city.
   (B)   All recreational vehicles must be stored in an inconspicuous manner so
as not to detract from the residential atmosphere of the community, nor may
such vehicles be parked or stored so as to create a nuisance condition as
defined by the ordinances of the city or state law.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE shall be defined
to include: campers, trailers, boats, house trailers, mobile homes, motor
homes, race car, snowmobile or parts on or off a trailer, any dune buggy on or
off a trailer, any motorcycle trailer, any pickup camper on or off the pickup,
and any other such device designed to be mounted upon any other motor vehicle,
towed behind any motor vehicle, or in any way integrated into a movable,
temporary housing facility.
   (D)   Any recreational vehicle parked upon the streets of the city at a
place, in a manner or for a length of time prohibited by this section, is
declared to be an obstruction in any such streets and a public nuisance, and
any police officer of the city is authorized to cause the same to be removed to
and impounded in the depository provided by the city for such purpose.
   (E)   All charges shall be paid to the city for any fine, storage charges,
or hauling charges before the release of an impounded vehicle is authorized.
   (F)   Impounded vehicles shall be held for a period of 60 days, and if
unclaimed by that time, shall be advertised and sold.
   (G)   No person shall allow the parking of any commercially licensed truck
or any other truck, trailer, semi-trailer, tractor, or other type of vehicle of
one ton capacity or more in any residential zone for longer than one hour,
except when loading or unloading said vehicle.
(2005 Code, § 72.15) (Ord. 90-1103, passed 12-4-1990) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.16 PARKING OVERSIZED TRUCKS AND OTHER VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful, at any time, to park one ton capacity or more,
trucks, commercial vehicles, or any other vehicles or dual rear wheel vehicles
used on any public street or alley. This section will not apply if the vehicle
is in the process of being loaded or unloaded.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful, at any time, for any person to park any vehicle,
including trailers, upon any public street or alley if the vehicle exceeds the
width of seven feet or the length of 26 feet. This section will not apply if
the vehicle is in the process of being loaded or unloaded.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park in any improper manner
which might endanger the lives of pedestrians or other vehicle riders, or which
impedes the flow of traffic upon the roads or sidewalks.
   (D)   Any vehicle parked in violation of this section may be towed by the
city at the expense of the owner and/or operator of that vehicle.
(Ord. 10-0502, passed 6-1-2010) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.17 ADDITIONAL PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No parking on or beyond curbs. There shall be no parking of any motor
vehicles on any roll curbs or box curbs, nor beyond said curbs in the grass or
on the sidewalks within the city.
   (B)   Parking on hard surface only. As required by Article XI of the
official zoning ordinance of the city, dealing with off street parking
regulations, all new off street parking facilities shall be paved with asphalt,
concrete, or Portland cement concrete. New off street parking facilities may
not have gravel as a topcoat.
   (C)   No parking in grass or dirt. Motor vehicles may only be parked in
driveways or other parking areas appropriately paved for such parking and shall
not be parked in the grass or dirt to include, but not limited to, such areas
as side yards, front yards, or back yards.
   (D)   No parking blocking sidewalks. Motor vehicles shall not be parked in
any manner such that any part of the vehicle extends over top of any designated
sidewalk. This would include, but not be limited to, parking in one’s driveway
and having the rear part of the vehicle extending over a part of the sidewalk.
   (E)   Towing of vehicle authorized. Any vehicle parked in violation of the
above noted regulations may be towed at the expense of the owner and/or
operator of that vehicle, which expense shall include the towing charge plus
storage fees.
   (F)   Owner responsibility. If any vehicle is parked in violation of any of
the above noted provisions and the identity of the driver cannot be determined,
the owner or person in whose name the vehicle is registered shall be held prima
facie responsible for the violation.
   (G)   Application. The above noted provisions shall apply to the operator
and owner of any motor vehicle.
(Ord. 07-0901, passed 10-2-2007)
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.30 REQUIRED NOTICE TO OWNER; SALE OF A VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor
vehicles, who has complied with the notification requirements of KRS 281.928,
shall have a lien on the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in
division (B) of this section, for the applicable and reasonable charges
assessed in accordance with KRS 281.926 and 281.932, as long as it remains in
his or her possession.
      (2)   If, after a period of 45 days, the applicable and reasonable
charges assessed in accordance with KRS 281.926 and 281.932 have not been paid,
the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in division (B) of this
section, may be sold to pay the charges after the owner and any lienholder have
been notified by certified mail at the addresses specified in KRS 281.928(1),
ten days prior to the time and place of the sale. If the proceeds of the sale
of any vehicle pursuant to this section are insufficient to satisfy accrued
charges, the sale and collection of proceeds shall not constitute a waiver or
release of responsibility for payment of unpaid charges by the owner or
responsible casualty insurer of the vehicle. A lien on a vehicle under this
division shall be subject to prior recorded liens, unless released by any
existing lienholder pursuant to division (A)((3) of this section.
      (3)   (a)   A lienholder having a prior recorded lien listed on the title
issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be notified by certified mail
within the first ten days of impoundment in accordance with KRS 281.928.
         (b)   The notification, in addition to the requirements of KRS
281.928, shall include the make, model, license number, vehicle identification
number, owner's name and last known address, and tentative date of sale for the
vehicle, and state that the towing company or storage facility seeks to obtain
a new title free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
         (c)   If the certified letter required under this division is not sent
within the ten days by the towing and storage company, then only ten days of
storage may be charged.
         (d)   The lienholder has the right to take possession of the motor
vehicle after showing proof of lien still enforced, and paying the reasonable
or agreed towing and storage charges on the motor vehicle.
         (e)   If a lienholder does not exercise the right to take possession
of the motor vehicle under this division within 45 days of notification, the
towing company or storage facility may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145
free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
         (f)   Nothing in this section shall allow the transfer of a vehicle
subject to a lien, except as provided in KRS 186A.190 or division (A)(3)(e) of
this section.
      (4)   If there are no lienholders required to be notified under KRS
281.920 to 281.936 and 359.230 and this section, and the owner does not
exercise the right to take possession of the motor vehicle under this section
within 45 days of notification required under KRS 281.928, the towing company
or storage facility may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145 free and clear of
any liens, excluding tax liens.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section shall not apply to the following contents
of a motor vehicle, which shall be released to the vehicle owner or the owner's
designated agent upon request, if the request is made within 45 days of the
date the vehicle was towed:
      (1)   Prescription medication in its proper container;
      (2)   Personal medical supplies and equipment or records;
      (3)   Educational materials, including but not limited to calculators,
books, papers, and school supplies;
      (4)   Documents, files, electronic devices, or equipment which may be
able to store personal information or information relating to a person's
employment or business;
      (5)   Firearms and ammunition. Notwithstanding the provisions of §
72.31, firearms and ammunition which are not claimed by the owner of the
vehicle within 45 days of the date the vehicle was towed shall be transferred
to the Department of Kentucky State Police for disposition as provided by KRS
16.220;
      (6)   Cargo in the possession of persons engaged in transportation in
interstate commerce as registered under KRS 186.020;
      (7)   Cargo in the possession of an integrated intermodal small package
carrier as defined by KRS 281.605(12);
      (8)   Child restraint systems or child booster seats; and
      (9)   Checks, checkbooks, debit or credit cards, money orders, stocks, or
bonds.
(KRS 376.275(1), (2)) (2005 Code, § 72.21)
§ 72.31 SALE OF THE CONTENTS OF A VEHICLE.
   Except as provided in §
72.30(B)(5), any contents exempted under §
72.30(B)(3), (4), (6) and (7) of this section that are not claimed by the owner
of the vehicle within 45 days of the date the vehicle was towed may be sold or
otherwise legally disposed of by the storage or towing company. Any contents
exempted under subsection §
72.30(B)(1), (2), (8) and (9) that are not claimed by the owner of the vehicle
within 45 days of the date the vehicle was towed shall not be sold, but shall
be otherwise legally disposed of by the storage or towing company.
(KRS 376.275(3)) (2005 Code, § 72.22)
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.45 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   A snow emergency exists whenever the city has any single accumulation
of four inches or more of snow in a 24-hour period; or
   (B)   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official finds
that falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain will create a condition which makes
it necessary that the parking of motor vehicles in a snow emergency zone be
prohibited, or whenever he or she finds on the basis of a firm forecast of
snow, sleet, or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may
create a condition making it necessary that such parking be prohibited, he or
she is authorized to announce such prohibition, to become effective at a time
specified by him or her. After the effective time of such prohibition, no
person shall park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain parked in a snow
emergency zone in violation of §
72.48. However, if a fall of snow, sleet, or freezing rain occurs after 11:00
p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the Chief of Police or other authorized city
official has not announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking in snow emergency
zones is to be prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle parked in a snow
emergency zone may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following such fall. The
prohibition of parking announced by the Chief of Police or other authorized
city official under the authority of this section shall remain in effect until
he or she announces the termination of the snow emergency, in part or in which
the prohibition of parking authorized by this section shall no longer be in
effect.
(2005 Code, § 72.35) (Ord. 09-0403, passed 5-5-2009)
§ 72.46 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall find
that some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency
prohibition no longer exist, he or she is authorized to declare the termination
of the emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on announcement.
If such announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it
shall be repeated between those hours.
(2005 Code, § 72.36)
§ 72.47 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ZONE shall mean any street or highway designated by
the Chief of Police or other authorized city official. On such street or
highway designated as a snow emergency zone, special signs shall be posted to
this effect.
(2005 Code, § 72.37) (Ord. 09-0403, passed 5-5-2009)
§ 72.48 SNOW EMERGENCY PARKING.
   Once a snow emergency has been declared, there shall be no parking on the
north side of streets running east and west within the city designated as a
snow emergency zone, and there shall be no parking on the west side of streets
running north and south within the city designated as a snow emergency zone.
(2005 Code, § 72.38) (Ord. 09-0403, passed 5-5-2009) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city
for which no penalty is given shall be deemed to have committed a violation and
shall be fined in an amount not less than $20 nor more than $100.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
72.14 shall be subject to a fine of $10, which fine shall increase to $15 if
not paid within seven days of the date of issuance. Said amount shall be
payable to the city at the City Building, 106 Oak Street, Silver Grove,
Kentucky 41085.
      (1)   If enforcement is necessary through the County District Court, the
fine shall be as set forth in division (A) above.
      (2)   To contest any ticket issued hereunder, a hearing must be requested
in writing.
(2005 Code, § 72.14)
   (C)   Any person cited for a violation of §
72.16 shall be deemed to have committed a violation under state law and shall
be subject to a fine up to $250.
   (D)   (1)   Any person violating §
72.17 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $250 and
each day the vehicle is parked in violation of any of the above noted
provisions shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Any person violating §
72.17 may be issued a city parking violation notice and may pay the minimum
fine of $25 to the city at the City Building, 106 Oak Street, Silver Grove,
Kentucky 41085. If enforcement is necessary through the County District Court,
then the penalty may be up to the amount of $250 as noted above.
   (E)   (1)   Any person cited for a violation of §
72.48 shall be deemed to have committed a violation under state law and shall
be subject to a fine up to $250.
      (2)   Any vehicle parked in violation of §
72.48 may be towed by the city at the expense of the owner and/or operator of
that vehicle.
(KRS 189.990(1)) (2005 Code, § 72.38) (Ord. 90-0801, passed 9-4-1990; Ord. 96-
1002, passed 11-5-1996; Ord. 00-0302, passed 4-4-2000; Ord. 03-0801, passed 1-
6-2004; Ord. 04-0101, passed 2-3-2004; Ord. 07-0901, passed 10-2-2007; Ord. 09-
0403, passed 5-5-2009; Ord. 10-0502, passed 6-1-2010)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of motorcycles and motor scooters
   
73.02   Skating and coasting
   
73.03   Clinging to vehicles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02(C)
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTOR SCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motor scooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motor scooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motor scooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
(2005 Code, § 73.01) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Bicycles; safety regulations and standards, see KRS 189.287
§ 73.02 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as “play streets”
by the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful
for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of any
kind, to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
(2005 Code, § 73.02) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Regulations for operating and riding on motorcycles, see KRS 189.285
§ 73.03 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates, or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he or she is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of
any vehicle.
(2005 Code, § 73.03) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to have
committed a violation and shall be fined not more than $50 for each offense.
(2005 Code, § 73.99)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Stop intersections
      
II.   One-way streets
      
III.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Traffic shall stop as indicated in this schedule.
Street or Intersection Direction/Stop Ord. No. Date
Street or Intersection        Direction/Stop                Ord. No.  Date
First Street and Four Mile    East on First Street, west on           - -
Road                          First Street
First Street and Linden       Four-way                      86-106-02 11-4-1986
Street
First Street and Maple Street West on First Street, east on           - -
                              First Street
First Street and Oak Street   Stop - traffic heading west             - -
                              on First Street
                              Traffic heading south on Oak
Fourth Street and Oak Street  Street and both directions on           - -
                              Fourth Street
                              Traffic heading east on
                              Fourth Street, traffic
Fourth Street and Uhl Road    heading north on Uhl Road at            - -
                              Fourth Street, traffic
                              heading south on Uhl Road at
                              Fourth Street
Kay Wright Lane               Northbound at Route 8         11-1001   11-1-2011
Linden Street and Third       Traffic heading south on
Street                        Linden Street and both        86-106-02 11-4-1986
                              directions on Third Street
Maple Street and Route 8      North on Maple Street                   - -
Maple Street and Second       South on Maple Street                   - -
Street
Oak Street and Route 8        Stop - traffic heading north            - -
                              on Oak Street
Providence Trace and Four     Prior to turning onto Four    03-0801   1-6-2004
Mile Road                     Mile Road
Route 8 and Linden Street     North on Linden Street                  - -
Second Street and Ash Street  Four-way                                - -
Second Street and Four Mile   Traffic heading east and west           - -
Road                          on Second Street
Second Street and Linden      Four-way                      86-106-02 11-4-1986
Street
Second Street and Maple       Stop - north and south on               - -
Street                        Maple Street
Second Street and Oak Street  Four-way                                - -
Third Street and Four Mile    West on Third Street                    - -
Road
Third Street and Four Mile    Traffic heading east on Third           - -
Road and Uhl Road             Street
Third Street and Maple Street Stop - south on Maple Street            - -
Third Street and Oak Street   Four-way                      86-106-02 11-4-1986
Uhl Road and Four Mile Road   Traffic heading east on Uhl             - -
                              Road
 
   (B)   Traffic shall stop as follows.
 
Street or Intersection       Direction/Stop                Ord. No. Date
East First Street and Maple  East and west on East First   88-1101  12-6-1988
Street                       Street
East Second Street and Maple East and west on East Second  88-1101  12-6-1988
Street                       Street
East Third Street and Maple  East and west on East Third   88-1101  12-6-1988
Street                       Street
Oak Street and West First    North and south on Oak Street 88-1101  12-6-1988
Street
   
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates the provisions of division (A) above shall be
subject to the penalty provided in §
70.99.
      (2)   Whoever violates the provisions of division (B) above shall be
fined not less than $10 nor more than $100 for each offense.
(2005 Code, Ch. 74, Schd. I) (Ord. 11-1001, passed 11-1-2011)
SCHEDULE II. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   Traffic on the following streets shall travel one way only in the directions
indicated.
 
Street                      Location     Direction Ord. No. Date
Ash Street to Second Street From Route 8 South     83-0401  5-3-1983
 
(2005 Code, Ch. 74, Schd. II) (Ord. 25-0301, passed 4-3-2025) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Regulation. No vehicle shall be operated at a speed in excess of 15
mph in and upon the streets of the city, except as may be more specifically
indicated for those streets listed below.
Street Location Speed Limit Ord. Passed
Street               Location               Speed Limit             Ord. Passed
Ash Street                                 15 mph                  - -
East First Street                          15 mph                  - -
East Second Street                         15 mph                  - -
East Third Street                          15 mph                  - -
Four Mile Road (547) Within city limits     25 mph, consistent with - -
                                            state speed limit
Fourth Street                              15 mph                  - -
Linden Street                              15 mph                  - -
Maple Street                               15 mph                  - -
Oak Street                                 15 mph                  - -
Route 8              1/2 mile east and west 35 mph, consistent with - -
                     of Four Mile Road      state limit
                     From 1/2 mile west of  45 mph, consistent with
Route 8              Four Mile Road west to state limit             - -
                     city limits
                     From 1/2 mile east of  40 mph, consistent with
Route 8              Four Mile Road east to state limit             - -
                     city limits
Uhl Road             Within city limits     25 mph, consistent with - -
                                            state speed limit
West First Street                          15 mph                  - -
West Second Street                         15 mph                  - -
West Third Street                          15 mph                  - -
 
   (B)   Penalty. Whoever violates the speed limit set forth in this schedule
shall be subject to the same fine as set forth in the fine schedule of KRS
189.394.
(2005 Code, Ch. 74, Schd. III)
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking prohibited at all times
      
II.   Parking prohibited at certain times
      
III.   Truck parking prohibited
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES.
   (A)   Parking is prohibited in the following locations.
Street Location Side Ord. No. Date
Street                     Location                    Side  Ord. No. Date
Ash Street                 From Route 8 south to       East  84-1001  11-6-1984
                           Second Street
City playground and park
bounded by Route 8, Second No parking on any part of         84-1001  11-6-1984
Street, Oak Street, and    the playground and park
Ash Street
                           For a distance of 75 feet
                           south from the intersection
Four Mile Road             with Route 8 (near entrance Both  83-1101  12-6-1983
                           to the Fire Department
                           building)
                           For 102 feet east on old
Old Route 8                Route 8 from electric pole  South 00-0302  4-4-2000
                           near west property line of
                           Mr. Greg Heck
Providence Trace Drive     On street nor in entire     North 03-0801  1-6-2004
                           cul-de-sac at west end
                           Within 50 feet west of its
Route 8                    intersection with Four Mile South 83-1101  12-6-1983
                           Road
                           Within 100 feet east of its
Route 8                    intersection with Four Mile East  83-1101  12-6-1983
                           Road (near entrance to the
                           Fire Department building)
                           Within 50 feet in either
Route 8                    direction of its            South 83-1101  12-6-1983
                           intersections with Linden,
                           Maple, and Oak Streets
Route 8                    Within 50 feet east and     South 88       8- -1973
                           west of Four Mile Road            90       12-4-1983
Route 8                    Within 40 feet from the     South 101      11-4-1975
                           corner of any intersection
                           For a distance of 50 feet
Four Mile Road             west and 170 feet east of   Both  90       12-4-1973
                           its intersection with Route
                           8
                           From Route 8 south for a
Four Mile Road             distance of 150 feet from   West  88-0601  7-5-1988
                           the intersection
Third Street               Between Oak Street and Four North 85-0301  4-2-1985
                           Mile Road
                           For 40 feet in both
West Third and Ash         directions from inside the  Both  04-0101  2-3-2004
                           curve of the intersection
 
   (B)   Any vehicle or equipment parked in violation of division (A) above may
be towed at the expense of the owner and/or operator of that vehicle or
equipment. The penalty for the violation is a fine up to the sum of $250 and
each day the vehicle is parked in violation of division (A) above shall
constitute a separate offense.
(2005 Code, Ch. 75, Schd. I) Penalty, see §
72.99
SCHEDULE II. PARKING PROHIBITED AT CERTAIN TIMES.
   (A)   Parking is prohibited in the following locations during the times
specified.
 
Street            Location              Hours Prohibited      Ord. No  Date
Ash Street        From Route 8 south to From 10:00 p.m. to 6: 94-0701  8-2-1994
                  Second Street         00 a.m.
                  West side between     Between 9:00 a.m. and
Oak Street        First Street and      9:00 p.m.             109      6-7-1977
                  Second Street
                  North and south sides
                  from the corner of    From 7:00 p.m. until
West Third Street its intersection with 7:00 a.m.             82-06-01 6-1-1982
                  Four Mile Road 275
                  feet west
 
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of this schedule where no
other penalty is specifically provided shall be subject to the penalty provided
in §
72.99.
      (2)   Any person violating Ordinance 94-0701 shall be subject to a $10
fine payable to the city or, if enforcement is necessary through the County
District Court, shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100 for each
offense.
(2005 Code, Ch. 75, Schd. II) (Ord. 94-0701, passed 8-2-1994)
SCHEDULE III. TRUCK PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No commercial truck shall be permitted to park or stand in the
following locations for the purpose of loading or unloading merchandise or
products except for temporary delivery or pickup of merchandise or products.
 
Street  Location   Ord. No. Date
Route 8 South side 101      11-4-1975
 
   (B)   (1)   No person shall park or allow the parking of any commercially
licensed truck or any other truck, trailer, semi-trailer, tractor, recreational
vehicle, camper, boat, house trailer, mobile home, motor home, or any other
type of vehicle greater than one ton capacity within the right-of-way along the
following locations in the city limits. However, such type parking is
permissible for up to an hour when the vehicle is loading or unloading.
 
Street  Location   Ord. No. Date
Route 8 North side 96-1002  11-5-1996
 
      (2)   Any vehicle parked in violation of division (B)(1) above may be
towed at the expense of the owner and/or operator of that vehicle. The penalty
for the violation of this provision is a fine up to the sum of $250 and each
day the vehicle is parked in violation of this provision shall constitute a
separate offense.
(2005 Code, Ch. 75, Schd. III) Penalty, see §
72.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   LITTERING
      
95.   PARKS
      
96.   EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SERVICE
      
97.   LANDLORD-TENANT REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.03   Torture of dogs or cats
   
90.04   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.05   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.06   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
   
90.07   Keeping live hoofed animals and large fowl
Dogs and Cats
   
90.20   Definitions
   
90.21   Running at large
   
90.22   Noise disturbance
   
90.23   Number of dogs permitted
   
90.24   Application of state law regarding vicious dogs
   
90.25   Concealment of mad or rabid animal
   
90.26   Impoundment
   
90.27   Animal Warden to enforce provisions
   
90.28   Reclaiming impounded animal
Dangerous Animals
   
90.40   Definitions
   
90.41   Responsibility of all animal owners
   
90.42   Complaint; hearing
   
90.43   Civil liability
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To forsake entirely, or to neglect or refuse to provide or perform
the legal obligations for care and support of an animal by its owner or his or
her agent.
(KRS 257.010)
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care, or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
§ 90.02 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when,
except as authorized by law, he or she intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in KRS 525.125 in
causing it to fight for pleasure or profit (including, but not limited to,
being a spectator or vendor at an event where a four-legged animal is caused to
fight for pleasure or profit), mutilation, beating, torturing any animal other
than a dog or cat, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food, drink, space,
or health care, or by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his or her custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This division shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including, but not
limited to, horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows, or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with the United States Department of
Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject to other federal laws
governing animal research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
(KRS 525.130) Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross-reference:
   Torture of dogs or cats, see §
90.03
§ 90.03 TORTURE OF DOGS OR CATS.
   (A)   As used in this section, unless the context otherwise requires,
TORTURE means the intentional infliction of or subjection to extreme physical
pain or injury, motivated by an intent to increase or prolong the pain of the
animal.
   (B)   A person is guilty of torture of a dog or cat when he or she, without
legal justification, intentionally tortures a domestic dog or cat.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing or injuring of a
dog or cat:
      (1)   In accordance with a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   For humane purposes;
      (3)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (4)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including, but not
limited to, training for organized dog or cat shows, or other animal shows in
which a dog or a cat, or both, participate;
      (5)   For bona fide animal research activities, using dogs or cats, of
institutions of higher education; or a business entity registered with the
United States Department of Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject
to other federal laws governing animal research;
      (6)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased dog or cat;
      (7)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
dog or cat;
      (8)   For animal or pest control; or
      (9)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
   (D)   Activities of animals engaged in hunting, field trials, dog training
other than training a dog to fight for pleasure or profit, and other activities
authorized either by a hunting license or by the Department of Fish and
Wildlife Resources shall not constitute a violation of this section.
   (E)   The acts specified in this section shall not constitute cruelty to
animals under KRS 525.125 or 525.130.
Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Torture of dogs and cats resulting in serious physical injury or death, a
Class D felony, see KRS 525.135
§ 90.04 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display, or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, animal control officer, or any person authorized by
the city may destroy or kill, or cause to be destroyed or killed, any animal
found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or appearing to be
injured, diseased, or suffering past recovery for any useful purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal, the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian or of two reputable citizens called by him or her
to view the animal in his or her presence, or shall obtain consent to the
destruction from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding, or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or
his or her agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by
certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or his or her
agent at his or her last known address, shall be deemed to be abandoned and may
be turned over to the nearest humane society or animal shelter or disposed of
as the custodian may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner, of
the animal by the licensed veterinarian shall relieve the licensed veterinarian
and any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
   (D)   Abandonment shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and
claims by the owner to the animal.
(KRS 257.100)
§ 90.07 KEEPING LIVE HOOFED ANIMALS AND LARGE FOWL.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person or organization to keep any live animals
of the hoofed variety within any residential zone in the city limits. Said
hoofed animals shall include, but not be limited to, horses, cattle, sheep,
pigs, and goats.
   (B)    It is unlawful for any person or organization to keep any live, large
fowl animals within any residential zone within the city limits. Such types of
large fowl animals shall include, but not be limited to, ducks, geese, male
chickens, and turkeys. This section shall not prohibit the keeping of small
birds within bird cages, nor the raising of female chickens as outlined in
division (C) below.
   (C)   Chickens.
      (1)   A citizen of the city may hereafter submit application to the City
Clerk for a license to raise female chickens upon property within the city.
         (a)   The applicant shall meet all of the following criteria to raise
female chickens within the city:
            1.   The applicant must provide either:
               a.   A copy of the deed showing ownership of the parcel of
property on which they seek to raise female chickens, or
               b.   A lease, rental agreement, or letter from landowner
authorizing the raising of female chickens.
         (b)   The applicant must provide a copy of the proposed chicken
enclosure within which they seek to raise female chickens. The enclosure shall
have minimum dimensions no smaller than 76 inches in length by 36 inches in
width by 48 inches in height. The dimensions are the minimum interior size of
the enclosure and not related to the exterior dimensions of the enclosure. The
enclosure shall be located in the backyard of the property.
         (c)   The applicant's parcel of property must, from the exterior walls
of the above proposed enclosure, maintain a minimum distance of 50 feet to the
closest adjacent residential dwelling.
         (d)   The applicant must provide a plan for the collection and
disposal of chicken excrement and other waste products. The plan must, at a
minimum, comply with any and all applicable federal or commonwealth
requirements for the sanitary disposal of the excrement and other waste
products.
      (2)   Application and approval. The following criteria shall be observed
during consideration of submitted applications:
         (a)   A completed application form shall be submitted to the City
Clerk along with all supporting documentation;
         (b)   The City Clerk shall review all applications to ensure
compliance with the criteria outlined in division (C)(1) above. The City Clerk
may consult with any local, state, or federal environmental protection
agencies, agricultural agencies, or humane societies for compliance with the
criteria outlined in division (C)(1) above;
         (c)   A decision to approve or deny a request shall be made in writing
to the applicant within 30 days after receipt of the submitted application and
shall be signed by the Mayor; and
         (d)   If an application is approved for a license, the applicant shall
be required to pay the costs of any and all required inspections. The applicant
shall pay the costs prior to purchase and installation of the chicken
enclosure.
      (3)   Installation and use.
         (a)   Upon receipt of both an approved application and payment of the
fees and cost designated in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) of this section, the
applicant may proceed with construction and/or installation of the proposed
chicken enclosure.
         (b)   The license shall limit the number of adult female chickens to a
maximum of six.
         (c)   Upon the introduction of live chickens, said enclosures are, at
any time, subject to inspection by local, state, or federal health officials or
animal control officers. Denial of a request to inspect shall result in the
immediate revocation of the license.
      (4)   Appeals.
         (a)   If the City Clerk denies an application, the applicant shall
have 30 days to file an appeal of the decision for consideration by the City
Council. City Council shall review the application, all supporting
documentation, and provide for the applicant to be heard at the first regularly
scheduled meeting following receipt of the appeal unless circumstances require
an alternative meeting time not to exceed 30 days after receipt of the appeal.
(Ord. 93-0603, passed 7-6-1993 ; Ord. 21-0401, passed 5-6-2021 ) Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS AND CATS
§ 90.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAT. Any member of the feline family.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family.
   OWNER. Any person having a right of property in a cat or dog and every
person who keeps, harbors, or cares for a cat or dog.
(2005 Code, 90.15) (Ord. 93-0601, passed 7-6-1993)
§ 90.21 RUNNING AT LARGE.
    It shall be unlawful for any owner of any dog, cat, or chicken, licensed or
unlicensed, to permit the dog, cat, or chicken to leave or be beyond: (1) the
private premises upon which the dog or cat is kept, or (2) the enclosure
designated for the chicken, except when accompanied or controlled by its owner
secured by means of a collar or harness with chain or leash attached thereto
and held by the owner, and the owner shall not permit the dog, cat, or chicken
to be present upon any other public property or upon any other private property
without the permission of the owner of such other private property.
(2005 Code, 90.16) (Ord. 93-0601, passed 7-6-1993; Ord. 21-0401, passed 5-6-
2021)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, harbor, or keep any dog or
cat that, by its habitual barking, howling, or other act, causes public alarm,
annoyance, or disturbance.
(2005 Code, 90.17) (Ord. 93-0601, passed 7-6-1993) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 NUMBER OF DOGS PERMITTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any the residents of any housing unit, other than a
lawfully licensed kennel, to maintain more than two dogs at any one time,
except during the time of whelping a new litter and until such time as the
litter obtaining the age necessary to be safely separated from the female dog
or 12 weeks after whelping, whichever shall occur first.
(2005 Code, 90.18) (Ord. 93-0601, passed 7-6-1993) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 APPLICATION OF STATE LAW REGARDING VICIOUS DOGS.
   The provisions of state law regarding vicious dogs shall also apply to cats
within the city.
(2005 Code, 90.20) (Ord. 93-0601, passed 7-6-1993)
§ 90.25 CONCEALMENT OF MAD OR RABID ANIMAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conceal a dog, cat, or other animal
when there is reasonable grounds to believe that said animal is mad or rabid,
or that has been bitten by a mad or rabid animal, or to conceal an animal which
has been ordered to be impounded or killed as set forth by law, or in any
manner to prevent or attempt to prevent the execution of lawful orders
pertaining to mad or rabid animals or animals bitten by mad or rabid animals.
(2005 Code, 90.21) (Ord. 93-0601, passed 7-6-1993) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26 IMPOUNDMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the police officers or the Animal Warden to seize
and impound all animals found in violation of the provisions of this
subchapter, whether or not the animal is in the possession of its owner and
whether or not the animal is licensed. The impounding officer shall transport
the animal to the County Animal Shelter and the animal shall be subject to the
regulations of said shelter.
(2005 Code, 90.22) (Ord. 93-0601, passed 7-6-1993)
§ 90.27 ANIMAL WARDEN TO ENFORCE PROVISIONS.
   There is hereby created the position of Animal Warden whose duties it shall
be to enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(2005 Code, 90.23) (Ord. 93-0601, passed 7-6-1993)
§ 90.28 RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED ANIMAL.
   The owner of any animal which has been impounded under the provisions of
this subchapter may redeem the animal upon the procurement of all vaccinations,
compliance with all laws and regulations, and payment of all fines, licenses,
and fees due under the terms of this subchapter, the regulations of the
Campbell County Animal Shelter, or state and county law.
(2005 Code, 90.24) (Ord. 93-0601, passed 7-6-1993)
DANGEROUS ANIMALS
§ 90.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
      (1)   Any animal which constitutes a physical threat to human beings or
other domestic animals by virtue of a known or displayed propensity to endanger
by pursuing, wounding, or attacking any other domestic animal or human being,
whether or not such dangerous animal bears any license tag required by law;
      (2)   Any animal shall not be deemed dangerous if:
         (a)   It bites, attacks, or menaces anyone assaulting its owner, or
any person or other animal who has tormented or abused it;
         (b)   It is otherwise acting in defense of an attack from a person or
other animal upon the owner or other person; or
         (c)   It is protecting or defending its young or other domestic
animal.
      (3)   Any animal trained, owned, or harbored for the purpose, primarily
or in part, of animal fighting;
      (4)   Any animal which has been trained to attack persons independently
or upon oral command, excepting animals owned by public law enforcement
agencies; and
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL OFFICER. The Mayor or his or her duly appointed designee,
who shall take complaints of an aggrieved party, on a form prescribed by the
city.
(2005 Code, 90.30) (Ord. 93-0602, passed 7-6-1993; Ord. 19-0302, passed 4-4-
2019)
§ 90.41 RESPONSIBILITY OF ALL ANIMAL OWNERS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner of any animal, or anyone having an
animal in his or her possession or custody, to exercise reasonable care and to
take all necessary steps and precautions to protect other people, property, and
animals from injuries or damages which might result from his or her animal’s
behavior, regardless of whether such behavior is motivated by mischievousness,
playfulness, or ferocity.
   (B)   In the event the owner or keeper of any animal is a minor, the parent
or guardian of such minor shall be responsible to ensure that all provisions of
this subchapter are complied with.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of every owner of any animal, or anyone having
any animal in his or her possession or custody, to ensure that the animal is
kept under restraint and that reasonable care and precautions are taken to
prevent the animal from leaving, while unattended, the real property limits of
its owner, possessor, or custodian, and that it is securely and humanely
enclosed within a house, building, fence, pen, or other enclosure out of which
it cannot climb, dig, jump, or otherwise escape on its own volition. Such
enclosure must be securely locked at any time the animal is left unattended; or
it must be securely and humanely restrained by chain, cable and trolley, or
other tether of sufficient strength to prevent escape; or it must be on a leash
under the control of a competent person.
   (D)   Whenever outside of its enclosure as provided herein, but is on the
owner’s property, a dangerous animal must be attended by the owner and
restrained by a secure collar and leash of sufficient strength to prevent its
escape. No dangerous animal shall be chained, tethered, or otherwise tied to
any inanimate object, such as a tree, post, or building outside of its own
enclosure as provided herein. If the owners of dangerous animals maintain their
animal out-of-doors, a portion of their property must be fenced with a
perimeter or area fence. Within this perimeter fence, the dangerous animal must
be humanely confined inside a pen or kennel of adequate size. The pen or kennel
may not share common fencing with the area or perimeter fence. The kennel or
fence must have secure sides, a secure top attached to all sides, and the sides
must either be buried two feet into the ground, sunken into a concrete pad, or
securely attached to a wire bottom. The gate to the kennel must be locked.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the owner of any animal or anyone having an
animal in his or her possession to keep the animal under restraint and in
control at all times while the animal is off the real property limits of the
owner, possessor, or custodian. For purposes of this section, the animal is
deemed UNDER CONTROL when it is securely confined within a vehicle parked or in
motion, it is properly confined within a secure enclosure with the permission
of the owner of the property where the enclosure is located, or it is securely
restrained by a leash or other device held by a competent person.
   (F)   Except when being transported in, and securely confined within, a
vehicle, no dangerous animal shall be permitted off the property of his or her
owner except when it is attended by its owner; is restrained by a secure collar
and leash (not to exceed six feet in length), both collar and leash to be of
sufficient strength to prevent escape; and muzzled by sufficient means to
prevent its biting other persons or domestic animals.
   (G)   Enforcement of restrictions on dangerous animals.
      (1)   In the event that any law enforcement officer has probable cause to
believe that a dangerous animal is being harbored in violation of this
subchapter he or she may:
         (a)   Order the violation immediately corrected and cite the owner or
keeper to appear in court for the violation; or
         (b)   If the violation cannot be immediately corrected and the animal
is posing an imminent serious threat to human beings or other domestic animals,
the animal may be seized and impounded, in which case the owner or keeper will
be cited to appear in court for the violation. At the owner’s request and
expense, such impoundment may be at a veterinarian or licensed kennel of the
owner’s choosing. If the court rules that the animal is not dangerous as
defined, it will be released to the owner. If the court rules that it is
dangerous as defined, the animal will be released to the owner after payment of
any fees and penalties, and upon presentation of proof that the animal will now
be kept restrained or confined as specified in this subchapter.
      (2)   If the owner or keeper of any alleged dangerous animal impounded
for violation of this subchapter presents proof that the animal will now be
kept in compliance with this subchapter, the animal will be released upon
payment of any fees and penalties due.
      (3)   If the owner or keeper of an alleged dangerous animal fails to
either provide proof that the animal will now be kept restrained or confined in
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter, or fails to reclaim it after
impoundment, and if it cannot be adopted by someone providing proof that it
will be kept restrained or confined as specified in these provisions, it will
be humanely euthanized.
   (H)   All owners, keepers, or harborers of any guard dog or dangerous animal
shall display in a prominent place on his or her premises, and at each entrance
or exit to the area where such animal is confined, a sign easily readable by
the public using the words “Beware of Dangerous Animal” or “Beware of Dog”.
(2005 Code, 90.31) (Ord. 93-0602, passed 7-6-1993) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.42 COMPLAINT; HEARING.
   (A)   Any person who has been pursued or attacked by an allegedly dangerous
animal, or anyone on behalf of such person, may make a complaint before the
Dangerous Animal Officer or District Court, charging the owner, possessor, or
custodian of such animal with harboring a dangerous animal. A copy of such
complaint shall be served upon the person so charged in the same manner and
subject to the laws regulating the service of summons in civil cases, or by any
law enforcement officer of the city with a return receipt, directing such
person to appear before the District Court for a hearing of such complaint at a
time fixed.
   (B)   If upon a hearing of the parties and their witnesses, the court finds
the person so charged is the owner, possessor, or guardian of the animal in
question, and that such animal has without cause, pursued, wounded, or attacked
a human being or other domestic animal, the court shall declare such animal a
dangerous animal and order the owner, possessor, or guardian to henceforth keep
such dangerous animal securely confined as set forth in this subchapter, and
impose the penalties set forth in §
90.99.
   (C)   If a subsequent complaint is filed against the same owner, possessor,
or guardian for an animal previously determined or found to be a dangerous
animal, and the court finds the person so charged is in violation hereof, the
court shall order the owner, possessor, or guardian of said dangerous animal to
immediately remove the animal from the city or order the animal humanely
euthanized.
(2005 Code, 90.32) (Ord. 93-0602, passed 7-6-1993)
§ 90.43 CIVIL LIABILITY.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to limit or prohibit
application of any other public law or governmental regulation. Further,
nothing in this subchapter shall in any manner limit the civil liability of any
owner, possessor, or guardian of any animal to any aggrieved person for
damages.
(2005 Code, 90.33) (Ord. 93-0602, passed 7-6-1993)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day
the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
90.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500,
imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both, for each offense.
(KRS 525.130)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
90.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500.
(KRS 436.600)
   (D)   Anyone violating the provision of §
90.07 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor, punishable by up to a $500 fine
and one year in jail. Each day of such violation shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (E)   Any person who violates any provision of §
90.21 shall be fined as follows:
      (1)   Animal running at large, not spayed or neutered:
         (a)   First offense: $100.
         (b)   Second or subsequent offense: $125.
      (2)   The running at large fees for animals already spayed or neutered
will be:
         (a)   First offense: $85.
         (b)   Second or subsequent offense: $100.
      (3)   The above fines will be reduced to $85 for a first offense or $100
for a second offense if the owner of the animal grants permission to the
Campbell County animal shelter to spay or neuter the animal prior to reclaiming
the animal.
      (4)   Each day the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
Any person found in violation of §§
90.22 through
90.24 shall be fined $50 for the first violation within a year, $75 for the
second violation within a year, and $100 for each violation thereafter within a
year. A fourth violation within a year shall require a court appearance in the
County District Court.
   (F)   Any person found in violation of any of the provisions of §§
90.21 through 90.29 for which a penalty has not been set and any person who
shall be required to appear in the County District Court for violation of §§
90.21 through 90.29 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor, punishable by up
to a $500 fine and up to 12 months in jail for each offense.
   (G)   Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of §
90.41 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor, which is punishable by a
penalty up to a $500 fine and up to one year in jail.
   (H)   If it is determined that a cat or dog is running at large for a second
time and has not been spayed or neutered, an additional fine of $50 shall be
imposed. Such additional fine shall be reimbursed to the owner of the dog or
cat running at large if the owner submits written documentation to the city or
its designated agent within 30 days of the date of the citation confirming that
the dog or cat has been spayed if female or neutered if male. The city may
designate an animal control officer as its agent. Such written documentation
shall be in the form of a letter from the veterinarian performing the spay or
neuter procedure. Such written confirmation shall give descriptive detail of
the dog or cat which has been spayed or neutered in such a manner that will
allow it to be identified.
(2005 Code, 90.99) (Ord. 93-0601, passed 7-6-1993; Ord. 93-0602, passed 7-6-
1993; Ord. 93-0603, passed 7-6-1993; Ord. 95-0802, passed 9-5-1995; Ord. 01-
0401, passed 5-1-2001; Ord. 03-0301, passed 4-1-2003; Ord. 04-0401, passed 5-4-
2004; Ord. 17-0401, passed 5-11-2017 ; Ord. 21-0401, passed 5-6-2021; Ord. 22-
1001, passed 11-3-2022 )
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Repairs
   
91.01   Opening permit required
   
91.02   Application and bond
   
91.03   Restoration of pavement
   
91.04   Barriers around excavations
   
91.05   Warning lights
   
91.06   Sidewalk repairs to be made by owner
   
91.07   Excavation permit; fee schedule
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.20   Public hearing required
   
91.21   Notice requirements; public may testify
   
91.22   Effect of testimony
   
91.23   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
91.24   Separate hearing for each project not required
   
91.25   Exemptions from hearing requirement
Obstructions
   
91.40   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.41   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.42   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.43   Removal of ice and snow
   
91.44   Placement of basketball goals
Construction of Streets and Sidewalks
   
91.55   General grading
   
91.56   Crushed stone base
   
91.57   Bituminous surface treatment of flexible type base courses
   
91.58   Cement concrete sidewalk
   
91.59   Cement concrete - battered
   
91.60   Violations
 
   
91.99   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS AND REPAIRS
§ 91.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make any excavation opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of
the city unless a permit to make the excavation or opening has been obtained
prior to commencement of the work.
(2005 Code, § 91.01) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 APPLICATION AND BOND.
   (A)   In the application for a permit the person shall state the place
where, the time when, and the reason for such street opening and excavation,
and the probable time when the street will be replaced in good condition. With
the application, the person shall post with the City Clerk a good and
sufficient bond in the sum specified below conditioned upon the faithful
performance of his or her duty to replace such surface material and excavation,
and place the street, alley, or public way in as good condition as it was
immediately prior to such opening, ordinary wear and reasonable allowance being
made for such repairs.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall receive such application and, if reasonable
grounds are presented for such street opening, he or she shall accept such bond
and issue a permit to the applicant to remove the surface material and make
such excavation as is necessary. If the permit is refused, the tendered bond
shall not be accepted.
   (C)   In the case of utilities, which are making excavations and removing
street surfaces periodically and from time to time, a permanent bond may be
posted and filed with the City Clerk as stated in division (D) below, rather
than posting bond in each individual case, if the utility so desires.
   (D)   The bond to be posted by each applicant for permission to open a
street and remove a portion of the surface material thereof shall be as
follows.
      (1)   Where the hole in the street will not exceed ten square feet in
surface area, the fee shall be $100.
      (2)   Where the hole in the street will not exceed 25 square feet in
surface area, the fee shall be $150.
      (3)   Where the hole in the street exceeds 25 square feet in surface
area, the fee shall be $250.
      (4)   The permanent bond to be posted by utilities and contractors shall
be in the amount of $300.
   (E)   All fees collected hereunder shall be paid into the General Fund of
the city.
(2005 Code, § 91.02) (Ord. 6, passed 5-4-1951)
§ 91.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   When the applicant has completed his or her personal work and is ready
to replace the excavation and surface materials, he or she shall notify the
City Clerk and the Clerk will thereupon cause the installation to be inspected
and approved by a licensed inspector. The applicant shall pay the cost of such
inspection.
   (B)   The applicant shall then cause the excavation to be closed and the
surface materials to be replaced.
      (1)   If, upon inspection, such replacement is found to be satisfactory,
the Clerk shall surrender and cancel the bond required by §
91.02.
      (2)   If such work is found to be unsatisfactory, the Clerk shall inform
the applicant in what respects such work is unsatisfactory and shall give
notice to such applicant that the work must be completed within ten days
thereafter; an extension may be granted by the City Clerk. If the applicant
fails or refuses to make such necessary repairs in the grace period, the city
shall direct and order such repairs be made and charge the cost thereof against
the bond posted by the applicant. The excess of the bond, if any, after such
repairs have been paid for, shall be returned to the applicant.
(2005 Code, § 91.03) (Ord. 6, passed 5-4-1951)
§ 91.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
(2005 Code, § 91.04) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously posted
on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the space
involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each added
50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
(2005 Code, § 91.05) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 SIDEWALK REPAIRS TO BE MADE BY OWNER.
   (A)   Whenever any sidewalk in the city is found to be out of repair, the
Mayor or his or her duly appointed designee is empowered to notify the owner,
agent, or tenant of the property, the sidewalk of which is out of repair, that
the same must be repaired within such time as the Mayor may in the notice
specify.
   (B)   If the sidewalk is not repaired within the time specified in the
notice, the Mayor may thereupon order the sidewalks to be repaired by the city.
      (1)   The cost of such repair by the city shall be levied and assessed
against the owner or owners of the lots, or parts of lots, the sidewalks of
which have been repaired in accordance with the provisions of this section. The
City Clerk shall thereafter make out a bill for the cost of the repair against
the owner or owners, and shall present same for payment. If the bill is not
paid, the city may file suit for same.
      (2)   The bill shall bear interest at the rate of 12% per annum, from the
date the bill becomes delinquent until the same is paid.
   (C)   In the same manner as provided in divisions (A) and (B) above, the
Mayor may provide for the removal of trees that are dangerous by reason of
decay or otherwise, stumps, or other obstructions upon any sidewalks at the
expense of the property owner.
   (D)   If the owner of any lot is a nonresident of the city and has no known
agent upon whom the Mayor may serve the notice herein provided for, then the
repairs may be made as herein provided without giving notice, at the cost and
expense of the owner of the property.
(2005 Code, § 91.06) (Ord. 16, passed 12-7-1951; Ord. 11-0303, passed 4-5-2011)
§ 91.07 EXCAVATION PERMIT; FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Before any excavation work is performed in the city, a permit shall be
obtained from the Building Inspector authorizing the excavation work to be
performed.
   (B)   The excavation permit fee required in division (A) above shall be paid
at the time of filing an application for the excavation permit in accordance
with the following schedule.
Valuation of Excavation Work Fee
Valuation of Excavation Work                   Fee
Less than $100                                 $10
More than $100 and including $400              $10
$401 to and including $700                     $10
$701 to and including $1,000                   $10
From $1,000 to and including $25,000:          $10
(a) For first $1,000                           $6
(b) Each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof
From $25,000 to and including $50,000:         $154
(a) For first $25,000                          $5
(b) Each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof
From $50,000 to and including $100,000:        $279
(a) For first $50,000                          $4
(b) Each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof
From $100,000 to and including $500,000:       $479
(a) For first $100,000                         $3
(b) Each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof
From $500,000 and above:                       $1,679
(a) For first $500,000                         $2
(b) Each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof
 
(2005 Code, § 91.07) (Ord. 94-0201, passed 2-25-1994) Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Opening permit required, see §
91.01
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.20 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state-derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street, or bridge it shall provide an opportunity to the public to
provide input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS
61.823(2) to (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax
monies for road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 91.21 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS; PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state-derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by a unit of local government, that unit of government
shall include the topic as a specific item on the public meeting agenda and
shall allow any person to speak with regard to any proposed project, any
project which he or she feels should be built or done which has not been
proposed, priorities for completion of projects, and any other matter related
to road or bridge projects.
(KRS 174.100(1))
§ 91.22 EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   The unit of local government shall not be bound by the comments and input
provided at the meeting but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100(2))
§ 91.23 HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state-derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting as provided in this
subchapter has been held.
(KRS 174.100(3))
§ 91.24 SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting for
each project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
meeting, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(4))
§ 91.25 EXEMPTIONS FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or human-caused
disasters, nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100(5))
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.40 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.41 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.42 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see
Chapter 94
§ 91.43 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his or her premises free and clear of snow and ice to the
extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove
therefrom all snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather
conditions, accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily
not exceed 12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and
ice may have accumulated.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.44 PLACEMENT OF BASKETBALL GOALS.
   (A)   All portable or permanent mounted poles, backstops, rims, and nets for
basketball type activities shall be placed on private property only and shall
not be placed or mounted on public streets, sidewalks, alleys, or between the
sidewalks and public ways. Furthermore, said portable or permanent mounted
poles, backstops, rim, and nets shall be positioned so as to face the private
property upon which they are located and shall not be placed toward the
streets, sidewalks, or alleys so that participants will remain on the private
property to play basketball and not be using or occupying the public ways or
sidewalks during the playing of games.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for individuals to play basketball on and/or
obstruct the public ways and sidewalks in the city in that such creates safety
concerns and a safety hazard to said individuals, pedestrians, and motor
vehicles.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the owners of real estate and any
occupants and/or tenants of the real estate to comply with the above noted
provisions of this section. Said individuals as well as participants in any
such games shall be liable for violations of any provisions of this section.
(Ord. 06-1101, passed 12-4-2006) Penalty, see §
91.99
CONSTRUCTION OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
§ 91.55 GENERAL GRADING.
   (A)   Description. Grading shall consist of clearing and grubbing, removal
of existing structures, excavating, filling, spreading, and compacting the
areas to be filled in accordance with drawings and specifications on file in
the Zoning Administrator’s office and in conformity with the lines, grades,
slopes, and typical cross-sections shown on the accepted plans.
   (B)   Material. Material for the fill shall consist of material obtained
from the excavation of banks, borrow pits, or other approved sources. The
material used shall be free from vegetable matter and other deleterious
substances and shall not contain large rocks or lumps.
   (C)   Construction methods.
      (1)   Grading tolerance. Areas to be graded by cutting or filling shall
be rough graded to within two-tenths of a foot of the accepted elevation after
necessary allowance has been made for the thickness of topsoil, paved areas,
and other installations.
      (2)   Stripping and storing topsoil. Where suitable topsoil exists on
areas to be disturbed by grading or building operations, the topsoil shall be
stripped in the amount needed to complete finish grading operations, and shall
be piled in convenient locations for storage during construction.
      (3)   Clearing and grubbing. All timber, logs, trees, brush, vegetable
matter, and other rubbish shall be removed, piled, and burned or otherwise
disposed of so as to leave the areas that have been disturbed with a neat and
finished appearance.
      (4)   Removal of debris.
         (a)   All tree stumps, masonry, and other obstructions shall be
removed to a depth as follows.
 
For paved areas: 2’ below subgrade
For lawn areas:  2’ below finished grade
 
         (b)   Solid rock, shale, or other similar material shall be removed to
a depth as follows.
 
For
paved  15” below subgrade
areas:
For    2’ below finished grade, except when it is impractical to remove rock
lawn   outcropping
areas:
 
      (5)   Preparing areas to be filled. In order to ensure proper bond and
prevent slipping between the original ground and the fill, the surface of the
original ground shall be scarified to a reasonable depth. Where fills are made
on hillsides or slopes, the slope of the original ground upon which the fill is
to be placed shall be plowed or scarified deeply. Where the nature of the
ground justifies taking greater precautions for binding the fill to the
original ground, steps shall be cut into the original ground before filling is
begun.
      (6)   Placing, spreading, and compacting fill material.
         (a)   The selected fill material shall be placed in layers which, when
compacted, shall not exceed eight inches. Each layer shall be spread evenly and
shall be thoroughly blade-mixed during spreading to ensure uniformity of
material in each layer.
         (b)   The moisture content of the fill material shall be such that the
fill can be compacted to maximum practical density. If the moisture content of
the fill material is below the needed amount necessary to create the necessary
density, the proper amount of water shall be added. Similarly, if the moisture
content of the fill material is above the needed amount necessary to create the
desired density, the fill material shall be aerated by blading or other
satisfactory method until the moisture content of the fill material is
satisfactory.
         (c)   After each layer has been placed, mixed, and evenly spread, it
shall be thoroughly compacted to maximum practical density. Compaction shall be
by means of tamping or sheeps foot rollers, multiple-wheel pneumatic-tired
rollers, or other types of rollers or equivalent which will be able to compact
the fill to the desired density. Rolling shall be accomplished while the fill
material is at the desired moisture content. Rolling of each layer shall be
continuous over its entire area and sufficient trips shall be made by the
rolling equipment to ensure that the desired maximum practical density has been
obtained.
      (7)   Completion of general grading. Excavating of out areas shall
continue until these areas conform with the lines, grades, slopes, and typical
cross-sections shown on the accepted plans. Placing, spreading, filling, and
compacting areas to be filled shall also be continued alternately until these
areas conform with the lines, grades, slopes, and typical cross-sections shown
on the accepted plans.
   (D)   Seasonal limits. No fill material shall be placed, spread, or rolled
while the ground or fill is frozen or thawing or during unfavorable weather
conditions. When the work is interrupted by heavy rain, fill operations shall
not be resumed until the moisture content and density of the fill are as
previously specified.
(2005 Code, § 91.45) (Ord. 69, passed 8-2-1966) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.56 CRUSHED STONE BASE.
   (A)   Description. This item shall consist of a base course composed of
crushed stone constructed on a prepared subgrade in accordance with the
drawings and specifications on file in the Zoning Administrator’s office and in
conformity with the lines, grades, and typical cross-sections as shown on the
accepted drawings.
   (B)   Materials.
      (1)   All materials shall comply with state specifications.
      (2)   Crushed stone shall consist of hard, durable particles or fragments
of stone, free from an excess of flat, elongated, soft, or disintegrated
pieces, dirt, or other objectionable matter and shall comply with state
specifications items 612.2.1 and 612.2.2, size three and size ten for choking.
   (C)   Construction methods.
      (1)   Preparation of subgrade. All boulders, organic material, soft clay,
spongy material, and any other objectionable material shall be removed and
replaced with approved material. The subgrade shall be properly shaped, rolled,
and uniformly compacted to conform with the accepted cross-section and grades.
      (2)   Placing and rolling aggregates. All base course material shall be
deposited and spread by means of spreader boxes, or approved mechanical
equipment, or from moving vehicles equipped to distribute the material in a
uniform layer. Each layer shall be not more than three inches in thickness
after compaction and shall be constructed as follows.
         (a)   Immediately following the spreading of the coarse aggregate, all
material placed shall be compacted to the full width by rolling with a smooth
wheel power roller weighing eight to ten tons. Rolling shall progress gradually
from the sides to the center, parallel with the centerline of the road and
lapping uniformly each preceding track by one-half the width of such track and
shall continue until all the surface has been rolled and has been thoroughly
keyed, the interstices of the stone reduced to a minimum and until it ceases to
creep or wave ahead of the roller.
         (b)   Any irregularities or depressions that develop under such
rolling shall be corrected by loosening the material at these places and adding
or removing material until the surface is smooth and uniform.
         (c)   After the coarse aggregate has been thoroughly keyed and set by
the rolling described above, choker stone in an amount that will completely
fill the interstices shall be applied gradually over the surface and rolling
shall be continued while the choker stone is being spread, so that the jarring
effect of the roller will cause the small stone to settle into the voids of the
coarse aggregate.
         (d)   The choker stone shall not be dumped in piles on the coarse
aggregate but shall be spread in thin layers, either by spreading motion with
hand shovels, by mechanical spreading, or directly from trucks. In no case
shall the choker stone be applied so fast or thickly as to cake or bridge on
the surface in such manner as to prevent the filling of all voids or prevent
the direct bearing of the roller on the coarse aggregate.
         (e)   Hand brooms shall be used to sweep the choker stone into
unfilled voids and to distribute the stone where needed. The spreading,
sweeping, and rolling shall continue until no more choker stone can be forced
into the voids.
         (f)   Shaping and rolling shall be performed alternately as required
to maintain a uniform compacted base until a survade or treatment has been
applied to the base.
         (g)   Along curbs, headers, and walls, and at all places not
accessible to the roller, the base course material shall be tamped thoroughly
with mechanical tampers or with approved hand tampers.
      (3)   Seasonal limits. The base course material shall not be deposited or
shaped on a frozen or thawing subgrade or during unfavorable weather
conditions.
(2005 Code, § 91.46) (Ord. 69, passed 8-2-1966) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.57 BITUMINOUS SURFACE TREATMENT OF FLEXIBLE TYPE BASE COURSES.
   (A)   Description. Bituminous surface treatment of flexible type base
courses shall consist of a light wearing surface, composed of applications of
bitumen covered with aggregate, constructed on a prepared base, in accordance
with these specifications and in conformity with the lines, grades, and typical
cross-sections shown on the accepted drawings.
   (B)   Materials. All materials shall comply with state specifications.
      (1)   Aggregate. Aggregates shall comply with state specifications § 612
and shall consist of particles of clean, hard, tough, durable, uncoated
fragments of crushed stone or gravel, reasonably free from an excess of flat,
elongated, soft, or disintegrated pieces, organic or other objectionable
matter, and shall be free from lumps of clay.
      (2)   Gradation. The aggregate, when tested by means of laboratory
sieves, shall meet the following requirements of size eight for cover coats and
size 11 for seal coats.
      (3)   Bituminous materials. Bituminous materials shall conform with
current state specifications for the following grades.
 
Designation               Asphalt Grades             Tar Grades
Prime coat                RC-1, RC-2, MC-0, or MC-1  RT-1, RT-2, or RT-3
Cover coats and Seal coat RC-3, RC-4, MC-4, MC-5, or RT-6, RT-7, RT-8, or RT-9
                          SC-5n
Note: The MC and SC asphalts, and the heavier tars should be used only when
the air temperature in the shade and the temperature of the base is 70°F or
above.
 
      (4)   Proportions. Bituminous material shall be proportioned per square
yard as follows.
 
Application       Gals. of Bitumen Lbs. of Aggregate
Prime coat        0.25 to 0.50     ---
First cover coat  0.20 to 0.25     20 - 30
Second cover coat 0.25 to 0.30     25 - 35
Seal coat         0.25 to 0.30     25 - 35
Note: Weights of stone and gravel aggregate based on a specific gravity of
2.65.
 
   (C)   Construction methods.
      (1)   Preparation of base. The base to be treated shall be thoroughly
compacted, true to the lines, grades, and typical cross-sections shown on the
accepted drawings. The base shall be swept or otherwise cleaned of all dust,
mud, and foreign matter, and shall be thoroughly dry before any bituminous
material is applied.
      (2)   Application of bitumen. Bituminous material shall be applied
uniformly at the rates specified in division (B)(4) above, with a power
distributor or approved type under a pressure of not less than 30 to 40 pounds
per square inch.
      (3)   Spreading aggregate. The aggregate shall be uniformly spread at the
rates specified in division (B)(4) above, by means of spreader boxes, other
approved mechanical equipment, or from moving vehicles equipped to distribute
the material in a uniform layer.
      (4)   Prime coat. Bituminous material for the prime coat shall be applied
uniformly at the rate specified in division (B)(4) above, and in a manner
outlined in division (C)(2) above. Traffic shall not be permitted on the primed
base until the bitumen has penetrated, dried, and will not pick up under
traffic.
      (5)   First cover coat. Bituminous material for the first cover coat
shall be applied uniformly at the rate specified in division (B)(4) above, and
in the manner outlined in division (C)(2) above. Immediately after the first
cover coat application of bitumen has been applied, aggregate for the first
cover coat shall be spread at the rate specified in division (B)(4) above, and
in the manner outlined in division (C)(3) above.
      (6)   Rolling first cover coat. Immediately after the aggregate for the
first cover coat has been spread it shall be compacted for the full width of
the base by means of a dual wheel truck. Compacting shall continue until the
aggregate is thoroughly keyed into the bitumen. At the end of one year from the
completion of construction, such compacting shall be repeated until the
aggregate is thoroughly keyed into the bitumen.
(2005 Code, § 91.47) (Ord. 69, passed 8-2-1966) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.58 CEMENT CONCRETE SIDEWALK.
   (A)   Description. This item shall consist of sidewalk made on one course
portland cement concrete, or its equivalent, constructed in accordance with
specifications on file in the Zoning Administrator’s office, and the cross-
sections as shown on the accepted drawings.
   (B)   Materials. All materials shall comply with state specifications § 516.
      (1)   Aggregate shall comply with state specifications items 612.2.1,
612.2.4, or 612.2.5, sizes five and ten.
      (2)   Water shall be free from oil, acids, alkali, and vegetable matter
and shall be reasonably clean. Sea water shall not be used.
      (3)   Concrete shall contain six bags of cement per cubic yard and shall
be proportioned as follows.
 
Quantities Per Bag of Cement (Approximately 1:2:4 Mix)
Water   Fine Aggregate Coarse Aggregate
6 gals. 18 lbs.        345 lbs.
Note: Weight of aggregate based on a specific gravity of 2.65.
 
   (C)   Construction methods.
      (1)   Preparation of subgrade. See §
91.56(C)(1).
      (2)   Subbase. Four inches of compacted fine granular material shall be
constructed on the subgrade when considered necessary by the civil authorities.
      (3)   Forms for concrete. The forms for the concrete shall be of wood or
metal, straight, free from warps or kinks, and of sufficient strength. They
shall be staked securely enough to resist the pressure of the concrete without
spring. When ready for the concrete to be deposited, they shall not vary from
the approved line and grade and shall be kept so until the concrete has set.
      (4)   Placing and finishing concrete. Just prior to placing the concrete
the subgrade shall be moistened. The concrete mixed to the proper consistency
shall be placed in the forms and thoroughly tamped or vibrated in place so that
all honeycombs will be eliminated and sufficient mortar for finishing will be
brought to the surface. After this, the surface shall be brought to a smooth
even finish by means of a wooden float. All faces adjacent to the forms shall
be spaded so that after the forms are stripped the surface of the faces will be
smooth, even, and free of honeycombs. All edges shall be tool rounded.
      (5)   Expansion joints and scoring concrete. One-half-inch transverse
expansion joints shall be placed at intervals not exceeding 80 feet. Sidewalks
shall be scored to a depth of one inch every four to six feet.
      (6)   Curing concrete. When completed, the concrete shall be kept moist
for a period of not less than three days, and longer if necessary, and shall be
protected from the elements in a satisfactory manner.
      (7)   Backfilling. Backfill shall be of suitable selected material and
shall be placed and tamped until firm and solid. Backfilling shall follow
immediately after the concrete forms have been removed.
      (8)   Repairs, alteration, modification or renovation. Any and all
sidewalk repairs required by any section of this chapter, or any alteration,
modification, or renovation of an existing sidewalk requested by any party
shall, at a minimum, include the removal and replacement of said sidewalk in
increments of four- to six-foot sections consistent with the existing scored
sections.
(2005 Code, § 91.48) (Ord. 69, passed 8-2-1966; Ord. 18-0602, passed 7-5-2018)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.59 CEMENT CONCRETE - BATTERED.
   (A)   Description. This item shall consist of a portland cement, or its
equivalent, concrete curb, constructed on a prepared subgrade in accordance
with the specifications on file in the Zoning Administrator’s office and the
cross-sections as shown on the accepted drawings.
   (B)   Materials. All materials shall comply with state specifications.
      (1)   Aggregate shall comply with state specifications items 612.2.1,
612.2.4, or 612.2.5, sizes five and ten.
      (2)   Water shall be free from oil, acids, alkali, and vegetable matter
and shall be reasonably clean. Sea water shall not be used.
      (3)   Concrete shall contain six bags of cement per cubic yard and shall
be proportioned as follows.
 
Quantities Per Bag of Cement (Approximate 1:2:4 Mix)
Water   Fine Aggregate Coarse Aggregate
6 Gals. 188 lbs.       345 lbs.
Note: Weight of aggregates based on specific gravity of 2.65.
 
   (C)   Construction methods.
      (1)   Preparation of subgrade. See §
91.56(C)(1).
      (2)   Forms for concrete. See §
91.58(C)(3). Also, where a face form for a curb is used it shall be so designed
as to permit it to be securely fastened to the other forms.
      (3)   Placing and finishing concrete. See §
91.58(C)(4).
      (4)   Expansion and contraction joints for concrete. Half inch expansion
joints shall be placed at intervals not exceeding 60 feet. At intervals not
greater than ten feet or less than five feet the concrete shall be scored for a
depth equal to one-third the total depth of the concrete.
      (5)   Curing concrete. When completed the concrete shall be kept moist
for a period of not less than three days and longer if necessary and shall be
protected from the elements in a satisfactory manner.
      (6)   Backfilling. Backfill shall be of suitable selected material and
shall be placed and tamped in layers of not over six inches in depth until firm
and solid. Backfilling shall follow immediately after the concrete forms have
been removed.
      (7)   Repairs, alteration, modification or renovation. Any and all street
or roadway repairs required by any section of this chapter, or any alteration,
modification, or renovation of an existing street or roadway requested by any
party shall, at a minimum, include the removal and replacement of said street
or roadway in increments greater than ten feet or less than five feet
consistent with the existing scored sections.
(2005 Code, § 91.49) (Ord. 69, passed 8-2-1966; Ord. 18-0602, passed 7-5-2018)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.60 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this subchapter
shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this subchapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the city
by reason of such violation.
(2005 Code, § 91.50) (Ord. 69, passed 8-2-1966) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both.
   (B)   Violation of any of the provisions of §
91.44 shall be considered a violation under state law subject to a fine of up
$250 for a first offense and shall be considered a Class B misdemeanor,
punishable by up to 90 days in jail and up to a $250 fine for any subsequent
offense.
(2005 Code, § 91.99) (Ord. 06-1101, passed 12-4-2006)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.03   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
92.04   Abatement procedure
   
92.05   Nuisance created by others
   
92.06   Suspension of license
   
92.07   Abandoned vehicles
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Private nuisances, see KRS 411.500 through 411.570
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. A motor vehicle or any part thereof in a dilapidated or
apparently inoperable condition which has not been moved for seven consecutive
days.
   AUTOMOBILE COLLECTOR. A person who collects and restores motor vehicles.
(KRS 381.770(1)(a))
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS. Any portion or parts of any motor-driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which could cause serious or life-threatening
injury or death at any time.
(KRS 381.770(1)(d))
   INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Unable to move under its own power due to defective
or missing parts, and which has remained in that condition for a period of not
less than ten consecutive days.
   JUNKED VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which is inoperable, wrecked, dismantled,
partially dismantled, or dilapidated. Conditions which indicate that a motor
vehicle is JUNKED include, but are not limited to: extensive rust, all tires
improperly inflated, damaged or missing windshield or windows, missing or
damaged brake lights or other required safety equipment, or expired or missing
registration plates or tags.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any style or type of motor-driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property which are propelled otherwise than by
muscular power which shall also include, but not be limited to, personal
watercraft and motorboats.
   ORDINARY PUBLIC VIEW. A sight line within normal visual range by a person on
a public street or sidewalk adjacent to real property.
(KRS 381.770(1)(b))
   PARTS CAR. An automobile that is not intended to be operated along streets
and roads, but is used to provide parts for the restoration of other
automobiles.
(KRS 381.770(1)(c))
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any act, thing, occupation, condition, or use of property
which shall continue for a length of time as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure, or endanger the comfort, health,
repose, or safety of the public;
      (2)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct, or tend to
obstruct or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
stream, ditch, or drainage; or
      (3)   Essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tend to depreciate the value of property of others.
   SCRAP METAL. Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum, or
any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE. In a dangerous condition, having defective or missing
parts, or in a condition generally as to be UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE as a
conveyance.
(Ord. 11-1201, passed 1-3-2011 ; Ord. 21-0402, passed 5-6-2021 )
§ 92.02 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of the state as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided
in this chapter or in accordance with any other provision of law.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control
or management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance to
develop thereon.
   (B)   The following conditions are declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street. Any tree, stack, or
other object standing in such a condition that it will, if the condition is
allowed to continue, endanger the life, limb, or property of, or cause hurt,
damage, or injury to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways
adjacent thereto, by the falling thereof or of parts thereof;
      (2)   Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage, or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare, or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful
enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger
that it will catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents,
or insects, or blow rubbish into any street, sidewalk, or property of another;
      (3)   Storage of explosives. The storage of explosive material which
creates a safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity;
      (4)   Weeds and grass. The excessive growth of weeds, grass, or other
vegetation. Unless otherwise provided, EXCESSIVE shall mean growth to a height
of 12 inches or more;
      (5)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered, or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation, or vault situated upon private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place;
      (6)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets, sidewalks, and drainage.
The growing and maintenance of trees or shrubbery which in any way interfere
with the use, construction, or maintenance of streets or sidewalks, cause
injury to streets or sidewalks, or constitute an obstruction to drainage;
      (7)   Keeping of animals. The failure to keep an animal’s pen, yard, lot,
or other enclosure in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive
odors;
      (8)   Junk; scrap metal; motor vehicles. The storage of motor vehicles in
an inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for further use, automobile
parts, or scrap metal within the city limits except on premises authorized by
the city for those purposes;
      (9)   Criminal activity.
         (a)   No owner of residential, commercial, or vacant property located
in the city shall allow his or her property to be used as the site for any
criminal activity. For purposes of this section, criminal activity shall be
defined as a criminal citation, arrest, or court-issued search warrant for
crime involving:
            1.   Prostitution;
            2.   Controlled substances or drug related activity;
            3.   Alcohol intoxication;
            4.   Menacing;
            5.   Assault;
            6.   Terroristic threatening;
            7.   Resisting arrest;
            8.   Disorderly conduct;
            9.   Outdoor gambling; or
            10.   Violation of KRS Chapter 527 (Offenses relating to firearms
and weapons).
         (b)   Any other provision of this section notwithstanding, it shall
not be a public nuisance if the person cited is the victim of the criminal
activity that occurred or is an incident of domestic violence perpetrated
against a resident, licensee, or invitee of the premises.
      (10)   Graffiti. No person shall spray, draw, etch, carve, or otherwise
create graffiti on any building or structure in the city and any person doing
the same shall be subject to a civil fine for the cost of removal;
      (11)   Environmental nuisance. No person shall use, cause, permit, or
omit in the use of property in a manner which causes an annoyance, hazard, or
injury which may be detrimental to the property or well-being of others. These
actions shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Injures or endangers the welfare, health, or safety of others;
         (b)   Offends decency;
         (c)   Creates offensive odors;
         (d)   Interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or renders
dangerous for passage any public or private street, highway, sidewalk, stream,
ditch, or drainage;
         (e)   Interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and property
or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others;
         (f)   Permits the presence, existence, or accumulation of waste,
rubbish, trash, or other non-operable appliance or vehicles or vehicles in a
state of major disassembly, disrepair, or in the process of being stripped or
dismantled;
         (g)   Permitting any yard grass, other plant, or weed growth exceeding
12 inches in height, other than crops, trees, bushes, flowers, or other
ornamental plants; and
         (h)   Disposing or accumulating of any foul, decaying, or putrescent
substance, stagnant water, animal waste, or other offensive material in or on
any lot, tract of land, street, highway, or any sidewalk or alley abutting any
of these which shall be the reasons for such offensive odors.
      (12)   Litter, garbage, and trash. No person shall drop, deposit, permit,
or acquiesce to such activity in any manner on any public or private property
any trash, litter, garbage, rubbish, debris, refuse, or waste of any kind, or
other obnoxious materials whether solid or liquid; and
      (13)   Dilapidated housing. No person shall cause, allow, or permit any
structure to be unfit for human habitation, occupancy, or use. Conditions that
warrant a finding of unfit for human habitation include conditions that exist
which are dangerous or injurious to the health, safety, or morals of the
occupants of such structure, neighboring structures, or other residents of the
city. Examples of such conditions include, but are not limited to: defects
increasing the hazard of fire, accidents, or other calamities; lack of adequate
ventilation, light, or sanitary facilities; violations of any other laws of the
state, the State Building Code, or other ordinance of the city.
(Ord. 17-1201, passed 1-4-2018) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Except as provided in KRS 381.770(3), it shall be unlawful for the
owner, occupant, or person having control or management of any land within the
city to permit a public nuisance, health hazard, or source of filth to develop
thereon through the accumulation of:
      (1)   Junked or wrecked automobiles, vehicles, machines, or other similar
scrap or salvage materials, excluding inoperative farm equipment;
      (2)   One or more mobile or manufactured homes as defined in KRS 227.550
that are junked, wrecked, or nonoperative and which are not inhabited;
      (3)   Rubbish; or
      (4)   The excessive growth of weeds or grass.
(KRS 381.770(2))
   (B)   Whenever a nuisance situation is discovered, or chronic nuisance
property exists, the authorized city official shall proceed pursuant to
ordinance 16-1101.
   (C)   (1)   The city shall have a lien against the property for the
reasonable value of labor and materials used in remedying the nuisance
situation. The affidavit of the authorized city official shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the amount of the lien and the regularity of the proceedings
pursuant to KRS 381.770, and shall be recorded in the office of the County
Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording
and shall bear interest at the rate established by the city thereafter until
paid. The lien created shall take precedence over all other liens, except
state, county, school board, and city taxes, except as provided in KRS 381.770
(8), and may be enforced by judicial proceeding.
(KRS 381.770(7))
      (2)   In addition to this remedy or any other remedy authorized by law,
the owner of a property upon which a lien has been attached pursuant to this
section shall be personally liable for the amount of the lien, including all
interest, civil penalties, and other charges, and the city may bring a civil
action against the owner and shall have the same remedies as provided for the
recovery of a debt owed.
(KRS 381.770(9))
(Ord. 17-1201, passed 1-4-2018) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant, or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests, or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care ought to have become aware of.
§ 92.06 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Whenever it is shown that a nuisance is associated with or caused by
the conduct of a business or activity licensed by the city and that the
existence of the nuisance presents an immediate threat to the public health,
safety, or welfare, the City Council may suspend the license of the person or
persons conducting the business or activity.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall cause a notice of the suspension to be served
personally upon the licensee, or upon any responsible agent of the licensee, at
the premises where the licensed business or activity is being conducted. The
notice shall clearly inform the licensee of the reason for the suspension, and
the conditions that must be met for the suspension to be removed.
   (C)   Upon application of the licensee, and upon a showing that the nuisance
has been satisfactorily abated and that any other reasonable conditions set
forth in the notice have been met, the City Council may remove the suspension.
§ 92.07 ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall leave an abandoned vehicle at any place within the
city. A motor vehicle left unattended upon a city street for more than seven
consecutive days without being moved 50 feet shall be deemed an abandoned
vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall leave any junked motor vehicle on any street or
highway within the city.
   (C)   Abandoned vehicles and junked vehicles shall be subject to immediate
removal by the Campbell County Police Department. In addition to towing and
storage fees and cost, the motor vehicle owner shall be subject to §
92.99.
   (D)   Motor vehicles which are parked on any street or highway and become
temporarily inoperable due to unforeseen circumstances such as a dead battery,
a flat tire, or a collision while the vehicle is parked, shall not be deemed a
junked vehicle until the passage of seven days from the disabling event.
(Ord. 21-0402, passed 5-6-2021) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day’s
continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
93.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
93.03   Consumer fireworks; restrictions on sale
   
93.04   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
93.05   Exempted sales and uses
   
93.06   Destruction of fireworks
Fire Prevention
   
93.20   Blasting permit
   
93.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
   
93.22   Sale or purchase of flammable liquids in glass containers
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, FIREWORKS means any composition or
device for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by
combustion, deflagration, or detonation, and which meets the definition of
“consumer fireworks” as defined in division (B) below or “display” fireworks as
defined in division (D) below and as set forth in the U.S. Department of
Transportation’s (DOT) hazardous materials regulations. FIREWORKS does not
include:
      (1)   Exception number one. Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to those regulations, are not
considered to be FIREWORKS and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times;
      (2)   Exception number two. Model rockets and model rocket motors
designed, sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models
are not considered to be FIREWORKS; or
      (3)   Exception number three. Propelling or expelling charges consisting
of a mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and saltpeter are not considered as being
designed for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, CONSUMER FIREWORKS means fireworks
that are suitable for use by the public, designed primarily to produce visible
effects by combustion, and that comply with the construction, chemical
composition, and labeling regulations of the U.S. Consumer Product Safety
Commission. The types, sizes, and amount of pyrotechnic contents of these
devices are limited as enumerated in this section. Some small devices designed
to produce audible effects are included, such as whistling devices, ground
devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive composition, and aerial
devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive composition. CONSUMER
FIREWORKS are further defined by the Consumer Product Safety Commission in
CPSC, 16 C.F.R. parts 1500 and 1507, are classified as Division 1.4G Class C
explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation and include the following.
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. These devices consist of
a metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition.
Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is produced.
Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed five
grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which contain no
magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are not
included in this category, in accordance with DOT regulations.
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
75 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of colored sparks,
and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This device may be
provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or
plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard
handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than one tube
is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200
grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a
distance of at least one-half inch.
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to 50
grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain. When more than one cone is mounted on a common base, the
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is produced. May be
spike, base, or hand-held. When more than one tube is mounted on a common base,
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
         (e)   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or
string. A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel may contain more than
200 grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the wheel revolves,
producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling effect.
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is produced by
the rapidly spinning device.
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is
ignited to make the device function.
         (h)   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces
white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wooden
stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst
of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight.
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability.
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached which, upon ignition,
lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible effect is
produced at the height of flight.
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to 20
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten stars (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several-second intervals.
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, “stars”, components producing reports containing
up to 130 milligrams of explosive composition per report, or other devices are
propelled into the air. The term MINE refers to a device with no internal
components containing a bursting charge, and the term SHELL refers to a device
that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in the air. A mine or
shell device may contain more than one tube provided the tubes fire in sequence
upon ignition of one external fuse. The term CAKE refers to a dense-packed
collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical composition including lift
charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed 200 grams. The maximum
quantity of lift charge in any one tube of a mine or shell device shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting charge in any
component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in
the component. The tube remains on the ground.
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE), or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed one and three-quarter inches. In addition, the maximum quantity of lift
charge in any shell shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of
break or bursting charge in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight
of chemical composition in the shell. The total chemical composition of all the
shells in a kit, including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams. The user
lowers a shell into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fuse
extending out of the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then
reloaded with another shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be
capable of firing twice the number of shells in the kit without failure of the
tube. Each package of multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning
label requirements of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced.
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50
milligrams.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed below are classified as NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS
and are not classified as common fireworks by the U.S. Department of
Transportation, and their transportation, storage, retail sale, possession,
sale, and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times.
      (1)   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as the
pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2)   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (3)   Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed 100 grams of composition per item. Devices
containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams of
composition per item.
      (4)   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include:
         (a)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than 16 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report;
         (b)   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report;
         (c)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes, producing a small report;
         (d)   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match, a small report or a shower of sparks is produced;
         (e)   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced; and
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams, may also be used to produce a small
report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, DISPLAY FIREWORKS means pyrotechnic
devices or large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or audible
effects by combustion, deflagration, or detonation. This term includes, but is
not limited to, firecrackers containing more than two grains (130 milligrams)
of explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than 40 grams of
pyrotechnic composition, and other display pieces which exceed the limits for
classification as consumer fireworks. DISPLAY FIREWORKS are defined by the
Consumer Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. Parts 1500 and 1507, and
are classified as Class B explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   Legality of items is as follows.
      (1)   Items described in division (B) above are legal for retail sale,
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
      (2)   Items described in division (D) are not legal for retail sale but
are legal under permits granted pursuant to this chapter for the purposes
specified in this chapter for public displays and may be sold at wholesale as
provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) are legal for retail sale, provided
all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are met.
(KRS 227.708) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, copartnership, or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, or keep with intent to sell, possess, use, or explode
any display fireworks, except as follows.
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department or other authorized city official may
grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the city, fair
associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of
individuals. Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator to
be approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be
of a character, and so located, discharged, or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or endanger
any person. COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks display. The
competent display operator shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives (ATF) License and have participated as an assistant in firing at
least five public displays. A COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR is also an employee
possessor. A permit under this division (A) shall be issued only to a competent
display operator holding an ATF license. At least one competent display
operator shall be on site during display set-up and firing. This competent
display operator shall maintain a copy of the permit application, as signed by
the local authority having jurisdiction as identified in this section, on site
and at all times the display is in place, and shall be presented on demand of
the State Fire Marshal or local Fire Chief. All public displays that require
issuance of a permit shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 1123 – Code for Fireworks Display
(adopted edition). Permits shall be filed with the State Fire Marshal at least
15 days in advance of the date of the display. After the privilege is granted,
sales, possession, use, and distribution of fireworks for the display shall be
lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted under this division shall be
transferable. For the purposes of this division (A), PUBLIC DISPLAY OF
FIREWORKS shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or pyrotechnic materials
before a proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors. Any person remaining
within the display area shall be identified as licensed by the ATF, or an
employee thereof, or be an assistant in training to become a competent display
operator. All persons remaining within the display area shall be at least 18
years of age. The Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings, and
Construction with recommendation from the State Fire Marshal shall promulgate
administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A to administer the
provisions of this division (A). The regulations shall address the process by
which permits are issued and any other procedures that are reasonably necessary
to effectuate this division (A);
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives, if the sale is to the person holding a display permit as
outlined in division (A) above. The permit holder shall present the permit
along with other verifiable identification at the time of sale;
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives;
   (D)   The sale and use in emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation, and highway use;
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads;
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports;
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations;
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency; and
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-partnership,
nonprofit, or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling at
retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing or using consumer fireworks as
defined in KRS 227.702 and as permitted pursuant to KRS 227.715.
(KRS 227.710) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 CONSUMER FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS ON SALE.
   Except as provided in §
93.02, the consumer fireworks described in §
93.01(B) may be offered for sale, sold at retail, or kept with the intent to
sell, only if the following requirements are met:
   (A)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, nonprofit, or business intending to
sell consumer fireworks described in §
93.01(B) shall register annually with the State Fire Marshal, who may assess a
fee of no more than $25 for each site at which fireworks shall be sold. The
registration requirement under this division (A) shall not apply to permanent
business establishments which are open year round and in which the sale of
fireworks is ancillary to the primary course of business. Each location shall
be required to charge sales tax at the current rate imposed on retailers in KRS
139.200;
   (B)   Permanent business establishments open year-round and in which the
sale of consumer fireworks is ancillary to the primary course of business shall
only be permitted to sell those consumer fireworks described in §
93.01(B), or shall meet the criteria for “seasonal retailer” described in
division (C) below;
   (C)   SEASONAL RETAILERS shall be defined as any person, firm, co-
partnership, nonprofit, or corporation intending to sell consumer fireworks
between June 10 and July 7, or December 26 and January 4 of each year or both,
and shall include permanent businesses, temporary businesses, stores, stands,
or tents. A seasonal retailer shall register with the State Fire Marshal, who
may assess a fee of no more than $250 for each site at which fireworks shall be
sold. Each location shall be required to charge sales tax at the current rate
imposed on retailers in KRS 139.200;
   (D)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, nonprofit, or corporation intending
to sell consumer fireworks, as defined in §
93.01(B) as the primary source of business, that is not a seasonal retailer as
defined in division (C) above, shall register with the State Fire Marshal, who
may assess a fee of no more than $500 for each site at which fireworks will be
sold. Each location shall be required to charge sales tax at the current rate
imposed on retailers in KRS 139.200;
   (E)   The annual registration required by this section shall be received by
the State Fire Marshal at least 15 days prior to offering fireworks for sale at
the site for which the registration is intended. Evidence that a sales and use
tax permit has been obtained from the Department of Revenue shall be presented
to the State Fire Marshal as a condition of registration. If the registration
is received less than 15 days prior to offering fireworks for sale at the site
for which registration is intended, an additional assessment of $100 shall be
added to the initial fee;
   (F)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall have its
registration certificate displayed in a conspicuous location at the site;
   (G)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall comply with
all applicable provisions of the International Building Code, with state
amendments (adopted edition), and NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection
Association) – Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, Storage, and Retail
Sales of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles (adopted edition);
   (H)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or sell any consumer
fireworks listed in §
93.01(B) to any person under 18 years of age;
   (I)   No person under 18 years of age may be employed by a fireworks
distribution facility or manufacturing facility. No person under 18 years of
age shall sell consumer fireworks at a consumer fireworks retail sales facility
registered under this section unless the individual is supervised by a parent
or guardian;
   (J)   The State Fire Marshal may revoke the registration of any site which
is in violation of a requirement of this section or any other requirement
provided pursuant to this chapter. If the violation renders any property
especially susceptible to fire loss, and there is present such hazard to human
life or limb that the public safety imperatively requires emergency action, the
State Fire Marshal may take that action, as provided in KRS 227.330(6); and
   (K)   A person lawfully possessing consumer fireworks, as defined in §
93.01(B), may use those items if:
      (1)   He or she is at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   Fireworks are not ignited within 200 feet of any structure,
vehicle, or any other person; and
      (3)   Use of the fireworks does not place him or her in violation of any
lawfully enacted local ordinance.
(KRS 227.715) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued under §
93.02 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than $1,000,000.
   (B)   However, the appropriate city official or the State Fire Marshal may
require a larger amount if in his or her judgment the situation requires it,
conditioned for the payment of all damages which may be caused thereby either
to a person or to property by reason of the permitted display, and arising from
any acts of the licensee, his or her agents, employees, or subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry; gold
star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate; toy snakes
which contain no mercury; smoke novelties and party novelties, which contain
less than twenty-five hundredths grain of explosive mixture; shells or
cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms; blank cartridges for a show or
theatre, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports, or for
use by military organizations; or the sale of any kind of fireworks, provided
the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730)
§ 93.06 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the State Fire Marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter. After a period of 60 days,
the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of 60 days, the seized fireworks may be offered for
sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor, or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or “Display”
designation shall require the notification of the United States Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives. The State Fire Marshal shall
provide the owner or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of
any fireworks seized within five business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the State Fire
Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s
intent. The State Fire Marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the State Fire Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for
three consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks within
ten days of the date of the last publication, the State Fire Marshal may
proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the fireworks
within ten days of the date of the last publication, a hearing as set out in
division (C)(1) above shall be held.
   (D)   Nothing in KRS 227.700 to 227.750 shall restrict a local government
from enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks within its
jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the authorized city
official. The authorized city official, before granting the permit, may require
the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify the city and all other persons
against injury or damages which might result from the proposed blasting.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material
of a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any
other portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall
be provided for these hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22 SALE OR PURCHASE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS IN GLASS CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to sell or to
purchase ether, gasoline, naphtha, benzol, collodion, lacquer thinner, or
acetone in any glass container.
(Ord. 46, passed 9-5-1957) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not more than $500.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.02 or
93.03, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both.
(KRS 227.990(4))
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
94.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
94.03   Hauling loose material
   
94.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
94.05   Litter on private property
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley, or other
public place mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or foreign matter of any
kind.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt, or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place shall haul it or cause it to be hauled in
vehicles provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any of the contents from falling or being thrown, blown, or deposited
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place. Any materials which
fall from or which are thrown, blown, or deposited from any vehicle upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place shall be removed immediately by
the person in charge of the vehicle.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks, or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day the violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 95: PARKS
Section
   
95.01   City ballpark hours of operation
§ 95.01 CITY BALLPARK HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The property known as the city ballpark and its facilities shall be closed
to the public every day at dark and no person shall use or be on or about the
ballpark and adjoining areas after dark and before 8:00 a.m. prevailing
standard time.
(2005 Code, § 95.01) (Ord. 80-6-4, passed 6-3-1980) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 96: EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SERVICE
Section
   
96.01   Establishment of service authorized
§ 96.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF SERVICE AUTHORIZED.
   The City Council hereby authorizes the establishment of 911 Emergency
Telephone Service within the city, with a maximum fee not to exceed $0.55 per
access line per month for the first 18 months of installation; a maximum fee
not to exceed $3.30 per access line per month for the initial charge
thereafter, with neither charge to exceed the total cost of 25 access lines per
month on each monthly telephone bill. Also, the Mayor is authorized, if it
become necessary, to enter into a new local cooperation agreement or to amend
such agreement among the cities and the county as to those matters and to adopt
regulations concerning the provision of the 911 service.
(2005 Code, § 96.01) (Ord. 86-0801, passed 9-2-1986; Ord. 01-02-02, passed 3-7-
2001; Ord. 05-1101, passed 12-6-2005)
CHAPTER 97: LANDLORD-TENANT REGULATIONS
Section
   
97.01   Uniform Residential Landlord and Tenant Act
§ 97.01 UNIFORM RESIDENTIAL LANDLORD AND TENANT ACT.
   The Uniform Residential Landlord and Tenant Act, hereinafter referred to as
“URLTA”, as codified in KRS 383.505 through 383.705, is hereby adopted and made
applicable to all properties within the city.
(2005 Code, § 97.01) (Ord. 98-0801, passed 9-8-1998)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   OCCUPATIONAL AND BUSINESS LICENSE FEES
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   INSURANCE PREMIUM TAX
      
113.   PAWNBROKERS
      
114.   YARD SALES
CHAPTER 110: OCCUPATIONAL AND BUSINESS LICENSE FEES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Definitions
Payroll License Fee
   
110.15   Imposition of fee; payment required
   
110.16   Work within and outside city
   
110.17   Exempted activities
   
110.18   Employers to withhold license fees and file returns
   
110.19   Returns to be filed by employee
Business License Fee
   
110.30   License fee
   
110.31   Amount of business license fee
   
110.32   Rental property business license fee
   
110.33   Minimum business license fee
   
110.34   Business outside city
   
110.35   Payment of business license fee
   
110.36   License certificate; transfer
   
110.37   Revocation of business license
   
110.38   Duties of the City Clerk; investigative powers
   
110.39   Regulations may be promulgated
   
110.40   Information to be confidential
   
110.41   Records to be kept by employers and licensees
   
110.42   Use of license fees
   
110.43   Interest and penalties
   
110.44   Severability; no unlawful imposition of license fee
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Taxation, see
Ch. 37
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSOCIATION. A partnership, limited partnership, joint venture, or any other
form of unincorporated enterprise owned or engaged in by two or more persons.
   BUSINESS. An enterprise, activity, profession, or undertaking of any nature
conducted for gain or profit, whether conducted by a self-employed person, a
corporation, an association, a co-partnership, or any other entity; it shall
include specifically, but not exclusively, the rental of any property, real or
personal, having a situs in the city, but shall not include the usual
activities of a board of trade, chamber of commerce, trade association, or
unions; community chest funds or foundations; corporations or associations
organized and operated exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific,
literary, educational, or fraternal purposes, where no part of the earnings,
income, or receipts, of such units, groups, or associations inures to the
benefit of any private shareholder or other person.
   CITY. The City of Silver Grove, Kentucky.
   CORPORATION. A corporation or joint stock company organized under the laws
of the United States, Kentucky, another state, territory, or foreign country or
a dependency thereof.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person engaging in or following any occupation, trade, or
profession within the meaning of this section.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, business, firm, corporation, partnership, association,
or any other kind of organization, who or that employs any person in any
occupation, trade, or profession in the city, within the meaning of this
section.
   GROSS SALARIES, WAGES, COMMISSIONS, AND OTHER COMPENSATION. The total gross
amount of all salaries, wages, commissions, bonuses or other monetary payments
of any kind, or any other considerations having monetary value, which a person
receives from, or is entitled to receive from, his or her employer for any work
done or personal services rendered in any occupation, trade, or profession,
including all deductions whether for tax, insurance, or other. Amounts paid to
traveling salesmen or other workers as allowance or reimbursement for traveling
or other expenses incurred in the business of the employer are excluded, but to
the extent of the excess of such amounts over such expenses actually incurred
and accounted for by the employee to this employer, it is included in the
foregoing definition. GROSS SALARIES, WAGES, COMMISSIONS, AND OTHER
COMPENSATION shall not mean or include gratuities and tips customarily received
by an employee from persons other than his or her employer.
   LICENSEE. Any person required to file a return or pay a license fee under
this chapter.
   OCCUPATIONAL TRADE OR PROFESSION. The joint of any kind of work, the
rendering of any kind of personal service, or the holding of any kind of
position or job within the city, by any clerk, laborer, tradesman, manager,
official, or other employee, including any nonresident, of the city who is
employed by any employer as defined in this chapter where the relationship
between the individual performing the service and the person from whom such
services are rendered is, as to those services, the legal relationship of
employer and employee, including also a partner of a firm or any officer of a
firm or corporation if such partner or officer receives a salary for his or her
personal services rendered in the business of such firm or corporation; and
shall also mean and include the holding of any kind of office or position,
either by election or appointment, by any federal, state, county, or city
officer or employee where the services of such official or employee are
rendered within the city.
   PERSON. Any natural person, partnership, limited partnership, fiduciary,
association, or corporation. Whenever the word PERSON is used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty in the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the
word, as applied to a partnership or other form of unincorporated enterprise,
shall mean the partners or officers thereof, and as applied to a corporation,
shall mean the officers and directors thereof.
   RENTAL PROPERTY. Any form of real estate located within the city, whether or
not a structure is located on such, the use or occupancy of which is offered
wholly or in part in return for the payment of rent. RENTAL PROPERTY includes
any situation where income is received from the ownership and/or operation of
real estate with any form of landlord-tenant or lessor-lessee relationship.
   RENTAL UNIT. Any single piece of rental property that income is received by
the owner and/or operator from a tenant or lessee. A RENTAL UNIT would include,
but not be limited to, houses, apartments, garages, mobile homes, pads for
mobile homes, vacant land, or any other form of real estate, the use of which
involves a landlord-tenant or lessor-lessee relationship.
(2005 Code, § 110.01) (Ord. 89-0301, passed 4-4-1989)
PAYROLL LICENSE FEE
§ 110.15 IMPOSITION OF FEE; PAYMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   There is hereby levied and imposed a license fee upon all persons
engaged in any occupation, trade, or profession, which license fee shall be
measured by and be equal to 1.5% of the gross salaries, wages, commissions, and
other compensation earned by such person within the city on or after July 1,
1989.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or follow any
occupation, trade, or profession within the city on or after July 1, 1989
without paying the license fee herein imposed.
(2005 Code, § 110.10) (Ord. 89-0301, passed 4-4-1989) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.16 WORK WITHIN AND OUTSIDE CITY.
   (A)   Where compensation is earned as a result of work done or services
performed both within and outside the city, the license fee required under this
subchapter shall be imposed by determining upon the oath of the employer, or if
required by the City Clerk, upon the oath of the employee, the percentage of
the compensation earned from the proportion of the work which was done or
performed within the city.
   (B)   Any request for a refund of payroll license fees must be filed by
April 15 for the previous calendar tax year. Any request for a refund of
payroll license fees because of having worked outside of the city shall include
a list of the other cities wherein work was performed that was not performed
within the city. The city shall then notify said additional cities of the work
performed in those other cities.
(2005 Code, § 110.11) (Ord. 89-0301, passed 4-4-1989; Ord. 02-0301, passed 4-1-
2002)
§ 110.17 EXEMPTED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   No license fee shall be required of a minister of religion who has
been duly ordained in accordance with the ceremonial ritual or discipline of a
recognized church, religious sect, or religious organization, to teach and
preach its religious doctrines or to administer its rights in public worship in
the performance of one or more of those duties; provided, however, that it is
not intended to exempt such duly ordained minister of religion from the
necessity of paying a license fee for work done or services performed in the
city in activities not connected with his or her regular duties as a minister
of religion.
   (B)   All other employees of the church or religious organization, other
than a duly ordained priest or minister, shall by subject to the provisions of
this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 110.12) (Ord. 89-0301, passed 4-4-1989)
§ 110.18 EMPLOYERS TO WITHHOLD LICENSE FEES AND FILE RETURNS.
   (A)   Each employer shall deduct from the pay due every employee the
approximate amount of the license fee from the gross salaries, wages,
commissions, and other compensation due each employee beginning on July 1,
1989. The payments required to be made on account of such deductions by
employers shall be made to the City Clerk for the period ending on March 31,
June 30, September 30, and December 31 of every year on or before the last day
of the month following the period. The failure or omissions by an employer to
deduct such license fee shall not relieve an employee from the payment of such
license fee and compliance with the requirements for making returns as provided
in this chapter or with any regulations promulgated under this chapter.
   (B)   On or before January 31 of each year, each employer shall file in the
office of the City Clerk a return on a form acceptable to him or her, setting
forth the following information in respect to each employee employed during the
preceding calendar year: name; address; Social Security number; the amount of
gross salaries, wages, compensations, and other commissions of each employee;
and the amount of the license fees deducted and paid by the employer.
(2005 Code, § 110.13) (Ord. 89-0301, passed 4-4-1989)
§ 110.19 RETURNS TO BE FILED BY EMPLOYEE.
   When a return of form and substance satisfactory to the City Clerk is not
filed by an employer and the license fees are not paid the city by such
employer, the employee for whom no return has been filed and no fees have been
received shall submit the return before January 31 each year showing in the
return his or her gross salaries, wages, commissions, and other compensation
subject to license fees during all or any part of the preceding calendar year.
The return may be made by completing the original copy of the statement
furnished him or her by his or her employer if the statement shows all of the
salaries, wages, commissions, and other compensation earned by him or her,
wherever employed, during the period for which the return is made. If for any
reason all license fees of a person subject to the provision of this subchapter
were not withheld by his or her employer, the person shall file the return
required by this section on a form obtainable at the City Clerk’s office. In
addition to the gross salaries, wages, commissions, and other compensation
earned by him or her, the returns shall show such other pertinent information
as may be required by the City Clerk. Each person making a return required by
this section shall, at the time of filing thereof, pay to the City Clerk the
amount of license fee due under this subchapter; provided, however, that any
portion of the license fee deducted at the source shall be deducted on the
return and only the balance, if any, shall be due and payable at the time of
filing the return. The amount of any license fee which was due on March 31,
June 30, September 30, and December 31, as provided herein, shall bear interest
from the date the same became due at the rate of 12% per annum until paid, and
the employer failing to pay the same when due shall also pay the 10% penalty
imposed under §
110.43.
(2005 Code, § 110.14) (Ord. 89-0301, passed 4-4-1989)
BUSINESS LICENSE FEE
§ 110.30 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby levied and imposed an annual license fee, in the
respective sums or amounts computed as hereinafter specified, upon all persons,
firms, associations, corporations, or other activities conducting any business
in this city after July 1, 1989.
   (B)   No such person, firm, association, corporation, or other entity shall
conduct any business within the corporate limits of the city without having
first paid the license fee established by and having obtained the prescribed
license therefor.
(2005 Code, § 110.20) (Ord. 89-0301, passed 4-4-1989)
§ 110.31 AMOUNT OF BUSINESS LICENSE FEE.
   The amount of the business license fee due under this subchapter is based
upon the number of employee man hours of work performed in the city per year as
follows.
Employee Hours Per Year Fee Amount
Employee Hours Per Year Fee Amount
0 to 1,000              $25
1,001 to 5,000          $50
5,001 to 10,000         $100
10,001 to 25,000        $150
25,001 to 50,000        $200
50,001 to 100,000       $400
100,001 to 300,000      $600
300,001 to 500,000      $800
550,001 to 800,000      $1,000
800,001 to 1,000,000    $1,500
Over 1,000,000          $2,000
 
(2005 Code, § 110.21) (Ord. 89-0301, passed 4-4-1989)
§ 110.32 RENTAL PROPERTY BUSINESS LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The annual business license tax fee for owners and/or operators of
rental property within the city is calculated based on the total gross receipts
for all of the owners and/or operators rental property located in the city with
the appropriate license tax as indicated on the rental property tax schedule as
indicated in division (B) below.
   (B)   Rental property tax schedule.
Total Gross Receipts License Tax
Total Gross Receipts        License Tax
$0 to $9,999.99             $25
$10,000 to $24,999.99       $50
$25,000 to $99,999.99       $100
$100,000 to $199,999.99     $150
$200,000 to $299,999.99     $200
$300,000 to $399,999.99     $250
$400,000 to $499,999.99     $300
$500,000 to $699,393.99     $350
$700,000 to $999,999.99     $500
$1,000,000 to $2,999,999.99 $750
$3,000,000 to $4,999,999.99 $1,000
$5,000,000 and over         $1,500
 
(Ord. 11-0701, passed 8-2-2011)
§ 110.33 MINIMUM BUSINESS LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   Any person who performs any type of business activity within the city
for which the above noted employee man hours performed in the city may not be
applicable, shall pay a minimum of $25 per fiscal year for the privilege of
performing any such business activity within the city. This provision is
intended to cover, by example, but not exclusively, solicitors or transient
merchants not having an established business in the city selling appliances,
household machines, magazine, books, encyclopedias, novelties, confections,
insurance, or any other items or articles or services.
   (B)   In the event any such person noted in division (A) above shall fail to
pay the $25 business license fee noted, and obtain a license certificate, said
failure shall result in the business license fee for said person being
increased an additional $25.
(2005 Code, § 110.23) (Ord. 89-0301, passed 4-4-1989)
§ 110.34 BUSINESS OUTSIDE CITY.
   The business license fee required hereunder shall be paid by any person
residing outside the city or having a place of business outside the city if
said person and/or his or her employees engaged in any form of business
activity within the city or if said person actually solicits and accepts
business by holding himself or herself out as engaged in such business, trade,
occupation, vocation, calling, or activity the same as any person residing in
the city, and engaged in a similar business, trade, occupation, vocation,
calling, or activity.
(2005 Code, § 110.24) (Ord. 89-0301, passed 4-4-1989)
§ 110.35 PAYMENT OF BUSINESS LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   On or before July 1, 1989, and on or before every July 1 thereafter,
each person subject to the business license fees under this chapter shall file
a written application and return with the City Clerk, on forms provided by the
city, subscribed to under oath, showing the estimated employee man hours to be
performed in the city, and/or the number of rental units to be maintained in
the city, during the next 12 months from July 1 of each year and shall pay the
full amount of business license fees due under this chapter on or before July 1
of each year.
   (B)   Any person who becomes subject to the business license fees under this
chapter after July 1 of each year shall file the same application noted above
and pay the appropriate business license fee due based upon the estimated
amount of employee man hours to be performed in the city, and/or the number of
rental units to be maintained in the city, during the balance of the fiscal
year through the next succeeding June 30.
   (C)   On or before June 31 of each year, every person subject to this
business license fee shall file a written return with the City Clerk, on forms
provided by the city, subscribed to under oath, showing the actual employee man
hours performed in the city, and/or the actual number of rental units
maintained in the city, during the prior fiscal year of July 1 through June 30.
Based upon the actual number of employee man hours and/or number of rental
units shown on this return, the person shall pay any additional business
license fees due for the prior fiscal year, or alternately, the city shall fund
the appropriate amount of business license fees if the actual employee hours
performed in the city and/or number of rental units maintained within the city
during the prior fiscal year were less than previously estimated.
(2005 Code, § 110.25) (Ord. 89-0301, passed 4-4-1989)
§ 110.36 LICENSE CERTIFICATE; TRANSFER.
   A license certificate shall be issued to each person paying the business
license fee due under this chapter. The certificate shall show the fiscal year
for which issued and the named place of business being licensed. A license may
be transferred from one person to another if the actual kind of business is not
materially changed, and may be transferred to cover another location if the
person moves his or her place of business, upon payment of a transfer fee of
$10. If a person has more than one place of business, a license certificate
shall be issued for each place of business. Each person shall display such
license certificate in a conspicuous place, available for public inspection, in
each licensed place of business.
(2005 Code, § 110.26) (Ord. 89-0301, passed 4-4-1989)
§ 110.37 REVOCATION OF BUSINESS LICENSE.
   Any business license issued under this chapter may be revoked by the city if
the person, his or her agents, servants, or employees, shall be convicted in
any court of competent jurisdiction for violation of this chapter or of any
ordinance or law concerning the business or premises licensed herein; provided,
however, the city shall give notice in writing, sent by U.S. Mail, postage
prepaid, addressed to the licensee at the address shown on the application and
return, notifying the licensee of a public hearing to be held by the city no
sooner than ten days after postmarked, and providing the public hearing is
actually held, evidence transcribed thereon and the action and decision of the
city reduced to writing and recorded in the city’s records.
(2005 Code, § 110.27) (Ord. 89-0301, passed 4-4-1989)
§ 110.38 DUTIES OF THE CITY CLERK; INVESTIGATIVE POWERS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to collect and receive all
license fees imposed by this chapter and to keep records showing all amounts
received as payroll license fees and business license fees.
   (B)   The City Clerk or any agent or employee designated by him or her is
authorized to examine the books, papers, and records of any employer or
supposed employer of any license or supposed licensee in order to determine the
accuracy of any return made, or, if no return was made, to ascertain the amount
of license fee due under the terms of this chapter by such examination. Each
such employer or supposed employer or licensee or supposed licensee shall give
to the City Clerk or to his or her duly authorized agent or employee the means,
facilities, and opportunity for the making of such examination and
investigation. The City Clerk is authorized to examine any person under oath
concerning any gross salaries, wages, commissions, and other compensation which
were or should have been shown in a return and to this end he or she may compel
the production of books, papers, records, and the attendance of all persons
before him or her, whether as parties or as salaries, wages, commissions, and
other compensation.
(2005 Code, § 110.28) (Ord. 89-0301, passed 4-4-1989)
§ 110.39 REGULATIONS MAY BE PROMULGATED.
   The City Clerk, acting under the direction of the Mayor, is charged with the
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, and, subject to the approval of
the Mayor and the City Council, is empowered to prescribe, adopt, promulgate,
and endorse regulations relating to any matter or thing pertaining to the
administration and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, including,
but not limited to, provisions for the reexamination and correction of returns
as to which an overpayment or underpayment is claimed or found to have been
made, and the regulations so promulgated shall be binding upon all licensees
and employers.
(2005 Code, § 110.29) (Ord. 89-0301, passed 4-4-1989)
§ 110.40 INFORMATION TO BE CONFIDENTIAL.
   Any information gained by the City Clerk or any other official or agent or
employee of the city as a result of any return, investigation, hearing, or
verification required or authorized by this chapter, shall be confidential,
except for official purposes and except in accordance with proper judicial
order.
(2005 Code, § 110.30) (Ord. 89-0301, passed 4-4-1989)
§ 110.41 RECORDS TO BE KEPT BY EMPLOYERS AND LICENSEES.
   Employers and others subject to the license fee under this subchapter are
required to keep such records as will enable the filing of true and accurate
returns. Such records are to be preserved for five years to enable the City
Clerk or his or her agent or employee to verify the correctness of the return
filed.
(2005 Code, § 110.31) (Ord. 89-0301, passed 4-4-1989)
§ 110.42 USE OF LICENSE FEES.
   All money derived from license fees under the provisions of this chapter
shall be paid to the City Clerk and placed to the credit of the General Fund of
the city to be used for general operating expense.
(2005 Code, § 110.32) (Ord. 89-0301, passed 4-4-1989)
§ 110.43 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   All payroll license fees and business license fees imposed by this chapter
which remain unpaid after they become due shall bear interest at the rate of
12% per annum and any person who has failed to pay the license fees when the
same became due shall also be charged a penalty of 10% of the amount of such
unpaid license fees. Any person who fails or refuses to withhold any license
fees payable under this chapter, or who fails to pay such fees to the City
Clerk at the time such is due as provided in this chapter, shall become liable
to the city for such fees as well as the interest and penalty noted above.
(2005 Code, § 110.33) (Ord. 89-0301, passed 4-4-1989)
§ 110.44 SEVERABILITY; NO UNLAWFUL IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   It is not the intention of the city or of this chapter to impose and require
a payroll license fee or business license fee that may be prohibited by law.
The provisions of this chapter are severable. If any provision, or part
thereof, or the application thereof to any person shall be held invalid, such
decision shall not affect or impair the reminder of this chapter, it being the
legislative intent to ordain and enact each provision, or part thereof,
separate and independent of each other.
(2005 Code, § 110.34) (Ord. 89-0301, passed 4-4-1989)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to the penalties noted in §
110.33, any person violating or failing to comply with any of the provisions of
this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be considered guilty of a Class B
misdemeanor under Kentucky Revised Statutes and be subject to a fine of $250
and incarceration in jail up to 90 days. Each and every day that such violation
or noncompliance continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(2005 Code, § 110.99) (Ord. 89-0301, passed 4-4-1989)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Short title
   
111.02   State law adopted
   
111.03   Definitions
Licensing Regulations
   
111.15   Application
   
111.16   Persons to whom licenses shall not be issued
   
111.17   Issuance of license
   
111.18   License to be posted
   
111.19   License period
   
111.20   Types of licenses
   
111.21   Duplicate licenses
   
111.22   Disposition of funds
   
111.23   Revocation
Regulations Pertaining to Persons Under Age
   
111.35   Purchase or attempt to purchase alcoholic beverages by persons under
lawful age; aiding or abetting
   
111.36   Allowing persons under age to remain on property in possession of
intoxicating liquor or beer
Nude or Nearly Nude Activities
   
111.50   Definitions
   
111.51   Performing nude or nearly nude activities
   
111.52   Permitting nude or nearly nude activities
   
111.53   License revocation or suspension for violation
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Occupational and business license fees, see
Ch. 110
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as and may be cited and referred to as the
Alcoholic Beverages Chapter of the City Code of Ordinances.
(2005 Code, § 111.01) (Ord. 54, passed 5-3-1960)
§ 111.02 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   All provisions of the state’s Alcoholic Beverage Control Act (KRS Title 20),
and all amendments thereto, relating to the manufacture, sale, transportation,
possession, and the like of distilled spirits and wines are adopted as part of
this chapter as they may apply or be pertinent to the government of a city of
the fifth class of this state, and are made a part of this chapter by reference
as if fully set forth herein.
(2005 Code, § 111.02) (Ord. 54, passed 5-3-1960)
§ 111.03 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions of words and phrases used in this chapter, unless otherwise
indicated, shall be the same as are set out in KRS 241.010 and 243.015.
(2005 Code, § 111.03) (Ord. 54, passed 5-3-1960)
LICENSING REGULATIONS
§ 111.15 APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring to traffic in distilled spirits and wines within the
city limits must, at least 20 days prior to the date on which he or she desires
a license to be issued:
   (A)   Make written application to the city for a license;
   (B)   Present satisfactory evidence with the application of good moral
character and complete compliance with state regulations; and
   (C)   Submit with such application a certified check or cash in sufficient
amount to cover the fee or tax for the particular kind of license applied for,
in accordance with the schedule of fees or taxes established and published in §
111.20. (It is understood and agreed by the city that such check or cash shall
be returned to the applicant if such application is not approved).
(2005 Code, § 111.15) (Ord. 54, passed 5-3-1960)
§ 111.16 PERSONS TO WHOM LICENSES SHALL NOT BE ISSUED.
   The City Council reserves the right to approve or reject any application for
any of the licenses hereafter specified; however, no person shall become a
licensee under the terms of this chapter who:
   (A)   Has been convicted of any felony or misdemeanor directly or indirectly
attributable to the use of alcoholic beverages, within two years preceding the
application;
   (B)   Is under the age of 21 years;
   (C)   Is not a citizen of the United States and has not had an actual, bona
fide residence in this state and county for at least one year next prior to the
date of such application;
   (D)   Has had any license issued under this chapter or any other ordinance
of this city relating to the regulation of the manufacture, sale, or
transportation of alcoholic beverages revoked for any cause, or has been
convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or any other
ordinance of this city until the expiration of two years from the date of such
revocation or conviction; and/or
   (E)   Is a partnership or corporation, unless each member of such
partnership, or each principal officer of such corporation, could have himself
or herself obtained a license hereunder, individually.
(2005 Code, § 111.16) (Ord. 54, passed 5-3-1960)
§ 111.17 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   If such application is approved by the County Alcoholic Beverage
Control Administrator, the City Clerk shall immediately issue a license to the
applicant in the form approved by the State Control Board.
   (B)   In the granting of any license, all restrictions contained in the
state’s Alcoholic Beverage Control Act (KRS Title 20) are imposed on such
licensee and made part of this chapter by reference, as if fully set forth
herein.
(2005 Code, § 111.17) (Ord. 54, passed 5-3-1960)
§ 111.18 LICENSE TO BE POSTED.
   After the issuance of such license, and prior to the commencement of
business, the licensee shall post such license in a conspicuous place in his or
her place of business and shall keep it posted and displayed during the entire
life of such license in a conspicuous place in the principal room in which such
business is carried on.
(2005 Code, § 111.18) (Ord. 54, passed 5-3-1960) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.19 LICENSE PERIOD.
   The period for licenses issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter
shall commence on July 1 of each year and shall expire on midnight of June 30
of the following calendar year. The licenses shall be printed in the forms
prescribed and approved by the State Control Board, shall be issued and signed
by the City Clerk and countersigned by the Mayor, and the fee or tax shall be
collected by the City Clerk.
(2005 Code, § 111.19) (Ord. 54, passed 5-3-1960)
§ 111.20 TYPES OF LICENSES.
   (A)   The following kinds of licenses, each of which shall be printed so as
to be readily distinguishable from any other, and in the form previously
stated, may be issued upon the terms stated herein:
      (1)   For a license to sell distilled spirits and wines by the package
for consumption off the premises, the fee or tax is $100 per annum;
      (2)   For a license to sell distilled spirits and wines for consumption
on the premises, the fee or tax is $100 per annum.
   (B)   The business authorized, the transactions permitted, and the actions
prohibited to licensees under each of the above mentioned licenses shall be
limited in extent and controlled by the provisions and limitations of similar
licenses issued by the State Control Board, and reference is made to the
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act (KRS Title 20) for a definition of such
limitations. The taxes or fees for the licenses listed in divisions (A)(1) and
(A)(2) above shall be as stated for a full year and any license issued between
July 1 and September 1 of each year shall be construed to have been issued for
a full year (although such license shall expire at midnight on June 30 of the
following year), and a full year’s tax shall be charged therefor. Licenses
issued after this date shall be reduced in amount by one-twelfth of the total
tax for each full month after September 1.
(2005 Code, § 111.20) (Ord. 54, passed 5-3-1960)
§ 111.21 DUPLICATE LICENSES.
   If a license shall be lost or destroyed without fault on the part of the
holder, upon due proof made to the City Council of such loss or destruction, a
duplicate license may be issued to the licensee upon order of the Council
directed to the City Clerk. A charge of $1 shall be made for such duplicate
license.
(2005 Code, § 111.21) (Ord. 54, passed 5-3-1960)
§ 111.22 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All money received by the City Clerk from the issuance of the licenses shall
be accounted for to the City Treasurer, and the latter shall place the funds in
the General Fund of the city.
(2005 Code, § 111.22) (Ord. 54, passed 5-3-1960)
§ 111.23 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Any of the licenses issued hereunder may be revoked by the issuing
authority for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   If the licensee has violated any of the provisions under this
chapter or of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act (KRS Title 20), as amended, or
if the state license is revoked for any of the other reasons set out by the
state’s Alcoholic Board;
      (2)   Conviction of the licensee, or his or her agent or his or her
employee, for selling any illegal beverage on the premises licensed;
      (3)   Making any false, material statement in an application for a
license;
      (4)   Transferring, assigning, pledging, depositing, or hypothecating a
license, or paying for the license of another or permitting another to pay for
one’s own license;
      (5)   Selling or agreeing to sell alcoholic beverages to a wholesaler or
retailer or to any person for resale who is not licensed so to do at that time;
and/or
      (6)   Willful or deliberate failure or default of a licensee to pay an
excise tax or any part thereof, or any penalties imposed by or under the
provisions of any statutes, ordinances, acts of Congress, and the like,
relative to taxation, or for a violation of any of the rules or regulations of
the Department of Revenue of the state made in pursuance thereof.
   (B)   If any license shall be revoked for reason of neglect or failure of
the licensee to observe and perform all the rules imposed upon him or her, or
for personal conduct, or be revoked for manner of conducting his or her place
of business, then and in such event the licensee shall not be entitled to any
proportionate refund of the license tax or fee.
(2005 Code, § 111.23) (Ord. 54, passed 5-3-1960)
REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO PERSONS UNDER AGE
§ 111.35 PURCHASE OR ATTEMPT TO PURCHASE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES BY PERSONS UNDER
LAWFUL AGE; AIDING OR ABETTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
purchase, receive, obtain, or attempt to purchase, receive, or obtain, for
himself, herself, or others, alcoholic beverages through the use of or by means
of misstatement of his or her age, either orally or by exhibiting incorrect,
false, fraudulent, altered, or counterfeited identification cards, driver’s
licenses, or other documents.
   (B)   Any person who aids, counsels, abets, or assists another in the
commission of the offense denounced in division (A) above shall be deemed an
offender and subject to the penalties as hereinafter provided.
(2005 Code, § 111.35) (Ord. 73, passed 1-2-1968) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.36 ALLOWING PERSONS UNDER AGE TO REMAIN ON PROPERTY IN POSSESSION OF
INTOXICATING LIQUOR OR BEER.
   (A)   No person being the owner or occupant or otherwise in possession or
control of any property located within the city shall knowingly allow any
person under the age of 21 years to remain on such property while in the
possession of intoxicating liquor or beer or while consuming intoxicating
liquor or beer.
   (B)   No person being the parent or guardian or otherwise having the care,
custody, or control of any minor shall knowingly allow the minor to violate any
of the provisions of this chapter nor shall aid, abet, induce, cause,
encourage, or in any way contribute to such minor violating any of the
provisions of this chapter, including, but not limited to, allowing a minor
having a propensity for possession or consumption of intoxicating liquors or
beer to be in possession or control of property located within the city under
circumstances such that a reasonably prudent and responsible adult should have
known that a violation of this chapter was likely to occur on the property.
   (C)   It shall be an affirmative defense under this section if the person
charged with the offense or his or her minor child or ward, within one hour
after the possession or consumption of intoxicating liquor or beer constituting
the basis of the violation, enlisted the aid of and cooperated with law
enforcement personnel to cause minors who are in possession of or consuming
intoxicating liquor or beer in violation of this chapter to not remain on the
property.
(2005 Code, § 111.36) (Ord. 87-0201, passed 3-3-1987) Penalty, see §
111.99
Editor’s note:
   The language of this section mirrors Campbell County Ordinance O-23-03,
passed 12-17-2003.
NUDE OR NEARLY NUDE ACTIVITIES
§ 111.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. A business within the city where liquor, beer, or
wine is sold for consumption on the premises pursuant to a retail drink liquor
license or retail cereal malt beverage liquor license that has been issued by
the city.
   LICENSE. A retail drink liquor license or a retail cereal malt beverage
liquor license issued by the city.
   LICENSEE. Any person to whom a retail drink liquor license or a retail
cereal malt beverage liquor license has been issued by the city, including the
officers and agents of the LICENSEE.
   LIQUOR ADMINISTRATOR. The duly elected Mayor of the city.
   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE. The occupational license issued for the business
establishment pursuant to the city’s occupational license ordinance. (See
Chapter 110.)
   PREMISES. The land and building in and upon which any business establishment
regulated by alcoholic beverage statutes is carried on.
   RETAIL LICENSEE. Any licensee, including its officers and agents, who sells
at retail any alcoholic beverage for the sale of which an occupational license
is required.
(2005 Code, § 111.45) (Ord. 86-0603, passed 7-1-1986)
§ 111.51 PERFORMING NUDE OR NEARLY NUDE ACTIVITIES.
   It shall be unlawful for and a person is guilty of performing nude or nearly
nude activity when that person appears on a business establishment’s premises
in such a manner or attire as to expose to view any portion of the pubic area,
anus, vulva, or genitals, or any simulation thereof, or when any female appears
on a business establishment’s premises in such a manner or attire as to expose
to view portions of the breast referred to as the areola, nipple, or simulation
thereof, to include, but not be limited to, those areas being covered with see-
through material or flesh-colored bandaids or other substance.
(2005 Code, § 111.46) (Ord. 86-0603, passed 7-1-1986) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.52 PERMITTING NUDE OR NEARLY NUDE ACTIVITIES.
   A licensee or retail licensee is guilty of permitting nude or nearly nude
activity when having control of the business establishment’s premises which it
knows, or has reasonable cause to know, is being used by any person to appear
on the premises in such a manner or attire as to expose to view portions of the
pubic area, anus, vulva, or genitals, or any simulation thereof; or used by any
female to appear on the premises in such manner or attire as to expose to view
any portion of the breast referred to as the areola, nipple, or any simulation
thereof. It permits such activity or fails to make reasonable and timely effort
to halt or abate such activity or use.
(2005 Code, § 111.47) (Ord. 86-0603, passed 7-1-1986) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.53 LICENSE REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION FOR VIOLATION.
   (A)   Performing nude or nearly nude activities as set forth in §
111.51 or permitting such activities as set forth in §
111.52 is a violation and punishment shall be fixed as set forth in the
Kentucky Revised Statutes. The second violation of §§
111.51 or
111.52 within a 12-month period shall constitute a Class B misdemeanor with
punishment as set forth in the Kentucky Revised Statutes. Three or more
violations of §§
111.51 or
111.52 within a 12-month period shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor with
punishment as set forth in the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (B)   In the event that a violation of §§
111.51 or
111.52 of this chapter occurs, the City Alcoholic Beverage Control
Administrator shall forthwith conduct a hearing pursuant to KRS 243.520 (in
conjunction with 241.160 and 241.190), to determine whether the liquor
licensee, at whose business establishment the activity prohibited by this
chapter occurred, shall have his or her license suspended or revoked. In the
event three or more violations of §§
111.51 or §
111.52 occur at a business establishment within a 12-month period, the
Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator, after a hearing, shall revoke the
retail drink license or retail cereal malt beverage liquor license or both.
   (C)   In the event that a violation of §§
111.51 or
111.52 occurs, the Mayor shall prefer charges against the retail licensee
pursuant to the code of ordinances, and after notice and a hearing held by the
City Council, the occupational license shall either be revoked or suspended. In
the event that three or more violations of §§
111.51 or
111.52 occur at a business establishment within a 12-month period, after notice
and hearing pursuant to the code of ordinances, the City Council shall revoke
the occupational license of the retail licensee.
(2005 Code, § 111.48) (Ord. 86-0603, passed 7-1-1986) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $250 or imprisonment in the
county jail for not more than 90 days, or both for a first offense, and to a
penalty of a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500 or imprisonment in
the county jail for a period not to exceed one year, or both for any subsequent
offense.
(2005 Code, § 111.99) (Ord. 87-0201, passed 3-3-1987)
CHAPTER 112: INSURANCE PREMIUM TAX
Section
   
112.01   Imposition of license fee
   
112.02   Amount of fee for companies issuing life insurance
   
112.03   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
112.04   Due date; interest and refunds
   
112.05   Written breakdown of collections
Statutory reference:
   Adjustments for overpayment, underpayment, or nonpayment, see KRS 91A.080(4)
Cross-reference:
   Occupational and business license fees, see
Ch. 110
   Taxation, see
Ch. 37
§ 112.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city, on a calendar-year basis.
§ 112.02 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING LIFE INSURANCE.
   The license fee or tax imposed by the city upon each insurance company with
respect to life insurance policies may be based upon the first year’s premiums,
and if so based, shall be applied to the amount of the premiums actually
collected within each calendar quarter upon the lives of persons residing
within the corporate limits of the city.
(KRS 91A.080(2))
§ 112.03 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   (A)   The license fee or tax imposed upon each insurance company with
respect to any policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be based upon
the premiums actually collected by the insurance company within each calendar
quarter on risks located within the corporate limits of the city on those
classes of business which the insurance company is authorized to transact, less
all premiums returned to policyholders. In determining the amount of license
fee or tax to be collected and to be paid to the city, the insurance company
shall use the tax rate effective on the first day of the policy term. When an
insurance company collects a premium as a result of a change in the policy
during the policy term, the tax rate used shall be the rate in effect on the
effective date of the policy change. With respect to premiums returned to
policyholders, the license fee or tax shall be returned by the insurance
company to the policyholder pro rata on the unexpired amount of the premium at
the same rate at which it was collected and shall be taken as a credit by the
insurance company on its next quarterly report to the city.
(KRS 91A.080(3))
   (B)   No license fee or tax imposed under this chapter shall apply to
premiums:
      (1)   Received on policies of group health insurance provided for state
employees under KRS 18A.225;
      (2)   Received on policies insuring employers against liability for
personal injuries to their employees or the death of their employees caused
thereby, under the provisions of KRS Chapter 342;
      (3)   Received on health insurance policies issued to individuals;
      (4)   Received on policies issued through Kentucky Access created in
Subtitle 17B of KRS Chapter 304;
      (5)   Received on policies for high deductible health plans as defined in
26 U.S.C. § 223(c)(2);
      (6)   Received on multi-state surplus lines, defined as non-admitted
insurance as provided in Title V, Subtitle B, the Non-Admitted and Reinsurance
Reform Act of 2010, of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act, Pub. L. No. 111-203;
      (7)   Paid to insurance companies or surplus lines brokers by nonprofit
self-insurance groups or self-insurance entities whose membership consists of
school districts; or
      (8)   Paid to insurance companies or surplus lines brokers by nonprofit
self-insurance groups or self-insurance entities whose membership consists of
cities, counties, charter county governments, urban-county governments,
consolidated local governments, unified local governments, school districts, or
any other political subdivisions of the Commonwealth.
(KRS 91A.080(10))
   (C)    No license fee or tax imposed under this chapter shall apply to
premiums paid to insurers of municipal bonds, leases, or other debt instruments
issued by or on behalf of a city, county, charter county government, urban-
county government, consolidated local government, special district, nonprofit
corporation, or other political subdivision of the Commonwealth. However, this
exemption shall not apply if the bonds, leases, or other debt instruments are
issued for profit or on behalf of for-profit or private organizations.
(KRS 91A.080(13))
§ 112.04 DUE DATE; INTEREST AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30
days after the end of each calendar quarter.
(KRS 91A.080(8))
   (B)   (1)   Any insurance company or agent that overpays any license fee or
tax to a city shall be refunded the amount overpaid. If it is determined that
an insurance company or agent paid a license fee or tax to a city based upon
premiums collected upon lives or risks which are discovered to be located
outside the legal corporate limits of the city which was paid the license fee
or tax, the insurance company or agent shall be refunded those license fees and
taxes within 90 days of notice to the city paid.
      (2)   License fees which are not paid on or before the due date shall
bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in KRS 131.010(6) from the
date due until paid. Such interest payable to the city is separate from
penalties provided for in KRS 91A.080(7). In addition, the city may assess a
10% penalty for a tax or fee not paid within 30 days after the due date.
(KRS 91A.080(9))
§ 112.05 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city with a breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(KRS 91A.080(8))
CHAPTER 113: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
113.01   Definition
   
113.02   Bond
   
113.03   Register to be kept; daily reports
   
113.04   Receipt to be given for each article; sale of article
   
113.05   Maximum interest, resale price
   
113.06   Receipt to be given for payment of loan
   
113.07   Prohibited activities
   
113.08   Enforcement
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property;
deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the property
back again at a stipulated price; makes a public display at his or her place of
business of the sign generally used by pawnbrokers to denote their business; or
who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on personal property or
deposit.
(KRS 226.010) (2005 Code, § 113.01)
§ 113.02 BOND.
   Every person to whom a city license is granted to carry on the business of a
pawnbroker shall annually enter into bond to the city, with good and sufficient
surety to be approved by City Council, in the penal sum of $1,000. This bond
shall be conditioned that he or she will observe the provisions of this chapter
and all ordinances and laws in force in the city not inconsistent with this
chapter.
(KRS 226.020) (2005 Code, § 113.02)
§ 113.03 REGISTER TO BE KEPT; DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)   (1)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and
purchases of all articles by the pawnbroker from the general public. The
register shall:
         (a)   Be reported to an online, Internet-based transaction recording
service accessible to law enforcement agencies;
         (b)   Show the dates and the amounts of all loans or purchases by the
pawnbroker from the general public, and the names and:
            1.   A driver’s license number;
            2.   Another state or federally issued picture identification card
number; or
            3.   If the identification specified in division (A)(1)(b)1. or 2.
of this section is not available, a Social Security number may be accepted;
            of all persons who have left any property that has been pawned or
sold;
         (c)   At all times be available to the inspection of any law
enforcement officer of this state when in the discharge of his or her official
duty; and
         (d)   Contain a full description of all property purchased by the
pawnbroker from the general public or received on deposit as collateral or
security. When requested by law enforcement and pertaining to an investigation,
a photograph of the merchandise shall be made available to law enforcement if
the property is still in the possession of the pawnbroker. For purposes of this
paragraph, “full description” includes but is not limited to:
            1.   Make;
            2.   Model;
            3.   Color;
            4.   Size;
            5.   Manufacturer;
            6.   Vintage; and
            7.   Distinguishing marks or characteristics.
      (2)   When secondhand merchandise is sold to a pawnbroker, the
merchandise shall be held for a minimum of 12 days before being resold.
      (3)   Prior to the release of property to a representative of law
enforcement, the law enforcement representative shall provide to the pawnbroker
a case report or other documentation that the item has been reported as stolen.
(KRS 226.040)
   (B)   Every pawnbroker shall, by 11:00 a.m. each day, make available to the
Chief of Police or to the State Police a true and correct written report of all
goods received by him or her, whether by pawn or purchase, during the 24 hours
preceding each report. The report shall describe the goods as accurately as
practicable. The Chief of Police or the State Police shall furnish blanks for
the reports required by this division (B).
(KRS 226.070)
(2005 Code, § 113.03)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR EACH ARTICLE; SALE OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall give a plain written or printed ticket for the
loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased or upon which money is loaned,
having on each a copy of the entries required by §
113.03(A) to be kept in his or her register. He or she shall not make any
charge for the ticket or receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of 90
days from the maturity of the loan. However, not less than ten days before
making the sale, the pawnbroker shall give notice to the person by whom the
article was pawned by mail addressed to the post office address of that person
as shown on the pawnbroker’s register, notifying such person that, unless he or
she redeems the article within ten days from the date of mailing of the notice,
the article will be sold.
(KRS 226.050) (2005 Code, § 113.04) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05 MAXIMUM INTEREST, RESALE PRICE.
   Any pawnbroker, as defined in §
113.01, may, in loaning money on deposit of personal property, charge, contract
for, or receive interest at a rate not exceeding 2% per month on the unpaid
principal balance of the loan, and may charge, contract for, and receive a
reasonable fee, not to exceed one-fifth of the value of the loan per month, for
investigating the title, storing and insuring the property, closing the loan,
making daily reports to local law enforcement officers if required by §
113.03, and for other expenses, losses, and incidental costs associated with
servicing such loans. Further, this fee, when made and collected, shall not be
deemed as interest for any purpose of law. No pawnbroker shall directly or
indirectly charge, receive, or contract for any interest or consideration
greater than that allowed by this section.
(KRS 226.080) (2005 Code, § 113.05) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.06 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR PAYMENT OF LOAN.
   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower, shall
give to that person a plain and complete receipt for such payment, specifying
separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to interest.
In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased personal property under an
agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on
receiving any payment of money from the person from whom the property was
purchased, give that person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the
stipulated resale price, and the amount received.
(KRS 226.090) (2005 Code, § 113.06) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.07 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of either pledge or pawn, any article
whatever from a minor at any time nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
(KRS 226.030) (2005 Code, § 113.07) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter unless
otherwise provided by KRS 226.100. However, County Police, for the purpose of
locating stolen goods, may carry out the provisions of KRS 226.060 within the
city.
(KRS 226.100) (2005 Code, § 113.08)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any pawnbroker or pawnbroker’s clerk who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter for which no penalty is otherwise provided shall,
upon conviction, be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500, and his or her
license may be forfeited to the city.
(KRS 226.990(1))
   (B)   Any pawnbroker who violates any of the provisions of §
113.03(B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $20
nor more than $100.
(KRS 226.990(3))
(2005 Code, § 113.99)
CHAPTER 114: YARD SALES
Section
   
114.01   Definition
   
114.02   Permit required; fees
   
114.03   Signs
   
114.04   General retail sales prohibited
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   YARD SALE. A sale from a residence or from residential property of personal
property which has been owned or used previously by an individual or resident
residing on the premises where the sale is conducted. A garage, patio, or
driveway sale is included within the definition of YARD SALE. The term YARD
SALE does not include the mere incidental sale of one or two items of personal
property when such sale is not part of general sale of a number of items of
personal property.
(2005 Code, § 114.01)
§ 114.02 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEES.
   (A)   No yard sale may be conducted within the city without a permit having
been first issued for such sale by the City Clerk. The permit shall set forth
and restrict the time and location of the garage sale. No more than two permits
may be issued to one residence or household during any calendar year. Each of
these two permissible permits shall be limited in time to no more than the
daylight hours of three consecutive days, and shall be conspicuously displayed
at the sale.
   (B)   A nonrefundable fee of $3 shall be submitted with the application for
the yard sale permit.
(2005 Code, § 114.02) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 SIGNS.
   One temporary sign of not more than four square feet shall be permitted to
be displayed on the property of the residence where a yard sale is being
conducted. The sign shall be displayed only during the time of the sale as
delineated on the permit. Any sign posted elsewhere must be removed 24 hours
after the last day of the sale.
(2005 Code, § 114.03) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04 GENERAL RETAIL SALES PROHIBITED.
   The conduct of general retail sales or commercial activities in residential
areas, except as otherwise expressly authorized under this chapter and the
city’s zoning code, is prohibited. Garage sales are permitted only insofar as
they are conducted consistently with the limitations set forth herein.
(2005 Code, § 114.04) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation found guilty of violating the terms of this
chapter shall be fined not more than $50 or imprisoned for not more than 12
months, or both, for each violation.
(2005 Code, § 114.99)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST CITY REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST CITY REGULATIONS
Section
   
130.01   Curfew for minors
   
130.02   Discharge of weapons
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALLOW. Either permit or neglect to refrain or prevent. It requires actual
or constructive knowledge on the part of the parent or guardian, that is, the
parent or guardian must actually know about the child violating this section,
or the circumstances must be such that a reasonable, prudent parent or guardian
should have known the child was violating this section.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18, or, as may be otherwise phrased,
any person of the age of 17 or under.
      PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a minor:
         (a)   As a natural or adoptive parent;
         (b)   As a legal guardian;
         (c)   As a person who stands “in loco parentis”; or
         (d)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of
court.
      REMAIN. To stay behind, to tarry, or to stay unnecessarily upon or in any
public assembly, building, place, street, or highway.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to be or
remain in or upon any public assembly, building, place, street, or highway
within the city at night during the following periods:
 
12:00 a.m. Saturday to 6:00 a.m. Saturday
12:00 a.m. Sunday to 6:00 a.m. Sunday
11:00 p.m. Sunday to 6:00 a.m. Monday
11:00 p.m. Monday to 6:00 a.m. Tuesday
11:00 p.m. Tuesday to 6:00 a.m. Wednesday
11:00 p.m. Wednesday to 6:00 a.m. Thursday
11:00 p.m. Thursday to 6:00 a.m. Friday
 
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian having legal
custody of a minor to allow such minor to be or remain in or upon a public
assembly, building, place, street, or highway in the city under circumstances
not constituting an exception as enumerated in division (C) below during the
time periods contained in division (B)(1) above.
   (C)   In the following exceptional cases, a minor in or upon any public
assembly, building, place, street, or highway in the city during the nocturnal
hours provided for in (B)(1) above shall not be considered in violation of this
section:
      (1)   When the minor is accompanied by a parent or guardian;
      (2)   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent or guardian of
such minor;
      (3)   When exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United
States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech,
and the right of assembly;
      (4)   In case of reasonable necessity, but only after such minor’s parent
has communicated to the Police Department the facts establishing such
reasonable necessity;
      (5)   When the minor is on the sidewalk of the place where such minor
resides, or on the sidewalk of either next-door neighbor who has not
communicated an objection to a police officer or the Police Department;
      (6)   When returning home by a direct route from and within one hour of
the termination of a school activity or any activity or a religious or other
voluntary association, provided that justification indicating the place and
time of termination of said event can be given to any investigating officer of
the Police Department;
      (7)   When authorized by regulation issued by the Mayor in cases of
reasonable necessity involving more minors than may reasonably be dealt with on
an individual basis. Such regulation should be issued sufficiently in advance
to permit publicity through news media and through other agencies such as the
schools. The regulation shall define the activity, the scope of the use of the
public assembly, building, place, street, or highway permitted, and the period
of time involved, not to extend more than one hour beyond the time for
termination of the activity, and the reason for finding that such regulation is
reasonably necessary. The Mayor shall notify the Police Department of said
information;
      (8)   When engaged in a business or occupation which state law authorizes
a person under 18 years of age to perform;
      (9)   When the minor is, with parental consent, in a motor vehicle with a
lawfully authorized driver; or
      (10)   When the minor, who is a duly authorized and licensed driver, is
operating a motor vehicle within the city for the purpose of passing through,
by direct route, from one location to another either within or out of the city,
including all minors that may also be within the vehicle.
   (D)   (1)   A police officer, upon finding or being notified of any minor in
or upon any public assembly, building, place, street, or highway reasonably
believed to be in violation of this section, shall follow the duties of a
police officer set forth in KRS 610.200 through 610.280 which governs the
taking or receiving a child into custody on a charge of committing a public
offense. All other provisions of the State Unified Juvenile Code shall apply.
      (2)   A police officer, upon finding or being notified of any minor in or
upon any public assembly, building, place, street, or highway whose parent is
believed to be in violation of this section, shall confront such minor and
request such information as his or her name, age, and/or address of his or her
parent or legal guardian.
(2005 Code, § 130.02) (Ord. 93-0401, passed 5-4-1993) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS.
   Except as otherwise provided under state or federal law, no person shall
discharge any firearm of any nature, nor use or discharge any sling, bow, or
other weapon in the city. The prohibition of this section shall not apply to
any police officer or agent of this city acting in his or her official
capacity.
(Ord. 10-0501, passed 6-1-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Violation by a minor of the provisions of §
130.01 shall constitute a public offense as contemplated in the provisions of
KRS 635.010 et seq. and a complaint filed against a minor for such a violation
shall be proceeded against in accordance with the provision of KRS 635.010,
635.020, 635.060, 635.070, 635.080, 635.085, and 635.100.
      (2)   Any parent or guardian violating §
130.01 shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor under state law, subject to a
fine of not more than $250 and/or imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90
days.
   (C)   Any person violating §
130.02 shall be deemed to have committed a Class B misdemeanor under state law
and shall be subject to a fine up to $250 and/or incarcerated up to 90 days.
(2005 Code, § 130.99) (Ord. 93-0401, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 10-0501, passed 6-1-
2010)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
152.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
      
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
154.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Adoption of State Building Code and State Residential Code
   
150.02   Appeals
   
150.03   Building and zoning permits
   
150.04   Number of dwellings to be built on lots
   
150.05   Electrical Code/permits
Key Lock Box System
   
150.20   Purpose
   
150.21   Structures to participate in system
   
150.22   Installation
   
150.23   Maintenance
   
150.24   Contents of lock box
   
150.25   Fire Department responsibilities
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Building Inspector, see §
31.33
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF STATE BUILDING CODE AND STATE RESIDENTIAL CODE.
   (A)   Adoption of the State Building Code.
      (1)   The State Building Code, promulgated in 815 KAR 7:120 and the State
Residential Code promulgated in 815 KAR 7:125 by the Board of Housing,
Buildings, and Construction are adopted in full as if set out at length herein.
      (2)   A copy of said State Building Code and the State Residential Code
is on file in the Office of the Campbell County Clerk, and the Clerk shall at
all times keep a copy of said building code for reference.
      (3)   A copy of the ordinance codified herein shall be transmitted to the
state’s Department of Housing, Buildings, and Construction.
   (B)   Designated enforcement officer. The Campbell County Fiscal Court
Department of Building Inspections, shall be designated as the local
enforcement agent/agency for said State Building Code and State Residential
Code. All Building Code inspections shall be performed by persons certified by
the state’s Department of Housing, Buildings, and Construction. All electrical
inspections shall be performed by persons certified by the state’s Department
of Housing, Buildings, and Construction as an electrical inspector.
   (C)   Building Inspection Program.
      (1)   Pursuant to KRS 198B.060(8), a Building Inspection Program is
hereby established in the city for application to all buildings.
      (2)   The Building Inspection Program of Campbell County Fiscal Court
Department of Building Inspections shall include plan review and inspections of
structures.
   (D)   Permits and fees. The fees for permits and inspections shall be as
provided for in a separate schedule.
(2005 Code, § 150.01) (Ord. 94-0501, passed 6-7-1994; Ord. 97-0504, passed 6-3-
1997; Ord. 01-0402, passed 7-3-2001; Ord. 05-0201, passed 3-1-2005; Ord. 05-
0202, passed 3-1-2005; Ord. 09-04-01, passed 5-5-2009; Ord. 09-0402, passed 5-
5-2009; Ord. 16-0701, passed 8-4-2016) Penalty, see §
150.99 
§ 150.02 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions made by the Campbell County Fiscal Court Department
of Building Inspections under this chapter may be taken to the Campbell County
Building Code Board.
(2005 Code, § 150.02)
Statutory reference:
   Appeals procedure, see KRS 198B.070
§ 150.03 BUILDING AND ZONING PERMITS.
   (A)   All building and/or zoning permit fees and plan review fees, shall be
paid to the Campbell County Fiscal Court Department of Planning and Zoning and
Building Inspections.
   (B)   Before any work is performed for which a building permit is required,
a building permit shall be obtained from the Campbell County Fiscal Court
Department of Planning and Zoning and Building Inspections authorizing the work
to be performed. The fee for the permit required in this division (B) or in any
other regulations of the city, shall be paid at the time of filing an
application for the permit/application.
(2005 Code, § 150.03) (Ord. 84-0101, passed 2-7-1984; Ord. 98-1201, passed 1-5-
1999) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 NUMBER OF DWELLINGS TO BE BUILT ON LOTS.
   (A)   Not more than one dwelling shall be built on any lot which has a
frontage of 50 feet or less on a publicly dedicated right-of-way and a depth of
150 feet or less, except corner lots which have frontage on two dedicated
streets.
   (B)   No more than one dwelling shall be built on any lot as laid out and
numbered by the Silver Grove Land and Building Company, as shown on plat dated
July 12, 1912.
   (C)   Any unplatted lots within the city or any portion or combination of
lots in the city must meet standards identified withing the most current zoning
regulations.
(2005 Code, § 150.04) (Ord. 31, passed 8-6-1954; Ord. 33, passed 2-4-1955; Ord.
56, passed 7-3-1962; Ord. 57, passed 7-3-1962; Ord. 74, passed 1-7-1969)
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.05 ELECTRICAL CODE/PERMITS.
   (A)   The Uniform State Building Code as is established by the Board of
Housing, Buildings and Construction of the state of Kentucky, is hereby adopted
in full by this chapter, and the same shall have the effect as if it were
written fully herein, as a minimum standard for the construction, alteration
and repair of any electrical wiring done within the effective area of this
chapter. These standards shall also be used by the electrical inspector in
making his or her inspections.
   (B)   Electrical permits shall be obtained from the Campbell County Fiscal
Court Department of Building Inspections prior to the installation, addition,
alteration, repair, relocation, or removal of electrical wiring.
   (C)   The cost of the electrical permit shall be as provided for in a
separate schedule.
(2005 Code, § 150.06) (Ord. 90-1102, passed 12-3-1990)
KEY LOCK BOX SYSTEM
§ 150.20 PURPOSE.
   Council of the city determined that the health, welfare, and safety of the
citizens of the city are promoted by requiring certain structures to have a key
lock box installed on the exterior of the structure to aid County Fire District
One in gaining access to or within a structure when responding to calls for an
emergency service, and to aid access into or within a building that is secured
or is unduly difficult to gain entry due to being either unoccupied or the
occupants are unable to respond.
(Ord. 12-0301, passed 4-3-2012)
§ 150.21 STRUCTURES TO PARTICIPATE IN SYSTEM.
   (A)   The following structures shall be equipped with a key lock box at or
near the main entrance or such other location as required the Fire Code
Officer, Fire Marshal, or Chief of the County Fire District One or his or her
agent:
      (1)   Commercial, industrial, or similarly situated business structures
which requires an occupational license;
      (2)   Multi-family residential structures that have restricted access
through locked doors but have a common corridor for access to the living units;
      (3)   Schools, whether public or private; and
      (4)   Governmental structures and nursing care facilities unless the
building is staffed or open 24 hours.
   (B)   All new construction subject to division (A) above shall have a key
lock installed and operational prior to the issuance of an occupancy permit.
All structures in existence on the effective date of this section and subject
to division (A) above shall be required to have a key lock installed and
operational if 50% or more of the current square footage of the existing
structure is being renovated or remodeled.
   (C)   The type of key lock boxes to be implemented within the city shall be
a Knox Box brand system or such other rapid entry system of comparable quality
which has been specifically authorized in writing by the Chief of the County
Fire District One as being an acceptable substitution for the Knox Box brand
system. Any substitution for the Knox Box brand system is per se unacceptable
if the substitution system cannot be fitted to use the universal key held by
County Fire District One.
(Ord. 12-0301, passed 4-3-2012)
§ 150.22 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   All Knox Boxes shall be installed to the left side of the main
business door.
   (B)   All Knox Boxes shall be flush mounted between five and six feet from
the ground to the center of the entry if possible.
   (C)   In the event that the rapid entry box system cannot be installed at
the aforesaid location and/or height, the Chief or his or her authorized
designee from County Fire District One may designate in writing a different
location and installation specifications.
   (D)   All realty and/or property with an electronic security gate shall have
the Knox Box installed outside of the gate.
   (E)   A window decal that is included when the Knox Box is shipped shall be
placed on the exterior access door to alert the Fire Department that a key box
is provided.
   (F)   The Chief of the County Fire District One must approve any changes in
the installation.
(Ord. 12-0301, passed 4-3-2012)
§ 150.23 MAINTENANCE.
   The operator of the building shall immediately notify the County Fire
District One and provide the new keys when a lock is changed or re-keyed. The
key to such lock shall be secured in the Knox Box.
(Ord. 12-0301, passed 4-3-2012)
§ 150.24 CONTENTS OF LOCK BOX.
   The contents of the lock box are as follows:
   (A)   Keys to locked points of ingress or egress, whether on the interior or
exterior of such buildings;
   (B)   Keys to all mechanical rooms;
   (C)   Keys to all locked electrical rooms;
   (D)   Keys to elevator and their control rooms;
   (E)   Keys to the fire alarm panels;
   (F)   Keys (special) to re-set pull stations or other fire protective
devices; and
   (G)   Keys to any other areas as requested by the County Fire District One.
(Ord. 12-0301, passed 4-3-2012)
§ 150.25 FIRE DEPARTMENT RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   No fire department personnel shall carry a Knox Box key.
   (B)   All Knox Box access keys shall be installed in a Knox Box Key Secure
system installed in the Fire Apparatus or such other key secure system of
comparable quality which has been specifically authorized in writing by the
Chief of the County Fire District One as being an acceptable substitution for
the Knox Box brand system.
(Ord. 12-0301, passed 4-3-2012)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this Code or
Standards hereby adopted in §
150.01 or fail to comply therewith; or who shall violate or fail to comply with
any order made thereunder; or who shall violate or fail to comply with any
order made thereunder; or who shall build in violation of any detailed
statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder; or
failed to operate in accordance with any certificate or permit issued
thereunder; and from which no appeal has been taken; or who shall fail to
comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the city or any of its
agents or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein,
shall severally for each and every such violation and noncompliance,
respectively, by guilty of a Class B misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of up to
$250 or by imprisonment up to 90 days, or by such fine and imprisonment.
      (2)   The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse
the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be required
to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time; and
when not otherwise specified the application of the above penalty shall not be
held to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
      (3)   Each day that prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute
a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of §
150.03(D) shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor as defined under Kentucky
Revised Statutes, which is punishable by a penalty up to a $500 fine and up to
one year in jail.
   (C)   Any person, entity, or corporation who has violated any provisions of
§§
150.20 through
150.25 or who has failed to comply with any order issued by any authorized
agent of the Campbell Fire District One or Fire Marshal, or has failed to
comply with any order issued pursuant to any section thereof, shall, upon
conviction before the proper judicial authority, be punished by a fine of not
more than $300. Each day a violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
(2005 Code, § 150.99) (Ord. 98-1201, passed 1-5-1999; Ord. 01-0402, passed 7-3-
2001; Ord. 05-0201, passed 3-1-2005; Ord. 05-0202, passed 3-1-2005; Ord. 12-
0301, passed 4-3-2012)
CHAPTER 151: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
151.01   Adoption by reference
   
151.02   Statement of goals and objectives adopted
§ 151.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The portion of the most current version of the area-wide comprehensive plan
adopted by the Campbell County and Municipal Planning and Zoning Commission as
it applies to the city is hereby adopted as the city’s local comprehensive
plan, and is incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set
out at length herein. Copies shall be kept on file in the office of the City
Clerk for public inspection during normal business hours.
(2005 Code, § 151.01) (Ord. 82-1101, passed 11-4-1982)
§ 151.02 STATEMENT OF GOALS AND OBJECTIVES ADOPTED.
   The statement of goals, objectives, principles, and standards for the
preparation and implementation of a comprehensive plan in accordance with KRS
Chapter 100 adopted by the Campbell County and Municipal Planning and Zoning
Commission, a copy of which is attached to Ordinance 89-0101, as amended, and
made a part of this code of ordinances by reference and the same shall apply
and be controlling over all matters to which it relates within the corporation
limits of this said city.
(2005 Code, § 151.02) (Ord. 89-0101, passed 2-7-1989; Ord. 91-1001, passed 11-
5-1991; Ord. 06-11-02, passed 12-4-2006; Ord. 15-1002, passed 11-5-2015)
CHAPTER 152: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Adoption of code
Vacant Property Regulations
   
152.15   Definitions
   
152.16   Registration of vacant foreclosed residential property
   
152.17   Fees
   
152.18   Maintenance obligations of mortgagees
   
152.19   Point of sale inspections
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 ADOPTION OF CODE.
   (A)   The city does hereby adopt by reference the 2006 Edition, and
subsequent updates, of the International Property Maintenance Code as published
by the International Code Council, Inc. for the control of existing buildings
and structures and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions, and terms of said Property Maintenance Code are hereby referred to,
adopted, and made part hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter with the
additions, insertions, deletions, and changes, if any, prescribed in division
(B) below. A copy of said Property Maintenance Code is available for review at
the city.
   (B)   The following sections of this International Property Maintenance
Code, 2006 edition, are hereby revised as follows:
      (1)   Section 101.1. Insert: “the City of Silver Grove, Campbell County,
Kentucky”;
      (2)   Section 102.3. Delete: “International Building Code”. Delete: “and
the ICC Electrical Code”. Delete: “International Zoning Code”. Insert:
“Kentucky Building Code, Kentucky Residential Code, NFPA 70 National Electrical
Code, Kentucky Plumbing Code, International Energy Conservation code or any
applicable code adopted and enforced by the State of Kentucky.” Insert: “City
of Silver Grove Zoning Ordinance.”;
      (3)   Section 103.2. Delete: “chief appointing authority” and replace
with “Mayor”. Delete “appointing authority” and replace with “Mayor”;
      (4)   Section 103.3. Delete in its entirety;
      (5)   Section 103.5. Delete in its entirety;
      (6)   Section 106.2. Delete “order”, insert: “citation”;
      (7)   Section 106.4. Insert after last sentence: “If a Notice of
Violation has been sent to the owner and/or occupant of a certain property
regarding a specified violation or violations and the owner and/or occupant of
a certain property failed to abate the violation or violations within the
specific time frame, a citation may be issued. The citation shall contain civil
penalties in according to the following schedule”:
1ST OFFENSE:
$25.00: IPMC SECTIONS - 402, 403.
$50.00: IPMC SECTIONS - 301, 302, 303, 304, 305, 306, 307, 308, 404, 602, 603,
604, 605, 607.
$100.00: IPMC SECTIONS - 108, 109, 110.
2ND OFFENSE:
Each 1st offense penalty is doubled.
3RD OFFENSE:
Each 2nd offense penalty is doubled.
4TH OFFENSE:
Each 3rd offense penalty is doubled.
5TH OFFENSE:
Each 4th offense penalty is doubled.
“All fines or civil penalties for sections of codes not specifically delineated
herein shall be determined by the Code Enforcement Officer based on the
severity of the offense. All fines shall be appealable to the Code Enforcement
Appeals Board.”
      (8)   Section 111.2. Delete: “chief appointing authority”. Insert: “Mayor
with approval from City Council”;
      (9)   Section 111.2.1. Delete: “chief appointing authority”. Insert:
“Mayor with approval from City Council”;
      (10)   Section 111.7. Delete: “appropriate court for a writ of certiorari
to correct errors of law. Application for review shall be made in the manner
and time required by law following the filing of the decision in the office of
the chief administrative officer.” Insert: “Campbell County Circuit Court
within thirty (30) days of the final decision of the appeals board.”;
      (11)   Section 201.3. Insert: “Kentucky Building Code, Kentucky
Residential Code, City of Silver Grove Zoning Ordinance, Kentucky Plumbing
Code, NFPA 70 National Electrical Code or any applicable code adopted and
enforced by the State of Kentucky”:
   Delete: “International Zoning Code”;
   Delete: “International Plumbing Code”; and
   Delete: “or the ICC Electrical Code”.
      (12)   Section 202. Insert: “OUTDOOR STORAGE. The keeping of personal or
business property in any open space or outdoor area outside of a building or
structure. For the purpose of this definition, property shall not include items
that were originally designed for continuous outdoor use (ex: lawn furniture,
grills, playground equipment).”;
      (13)   Section 302.1. Insert: “and all outdoor storage shall be removed”;
      (14)   Section 302.4. Insert: “seven (7) inches”;
      (15)   Section 302.8. Delete in its entirety and replace with “No
inoperative, abandoned or unlicensed motor vehicle, trailer, recreational
vehicle, camper, boat or similar equipment shall be parked, kept or stored on
any premises, and no vehicle shall at any time be in a state of major
disassembly, disrepair, or in the process of being stripped or dismantled.
Painting of vehicles is prohibited unless conducted inside an approved spray
booth. All trailers, recreational vehicles, campers, boats and similar
equipment shall be parked, kept or stored in the rear yard, except that said
storage may be permitted by the zoning administrator, on some other portion of
the lot, due to extraordinary and topographic conditions or some other
extraordinary condition of the site that would not allow said storage within
the rear yard.
   Exception: A vehicle of any type is permitted to undergo major overhaul,
including body work, provided that such work is performed inside a structure or
similarly enclosed area designed and approved for such purposes.”
      (16)   Section 303.2. Delete in its entirety and replace with “Enclosures
for swimming pools, hot tubs and spas shall be regulated by the Kentucky
Building Code, Kentucky Residential Code, the City of Silver Grove Zoning
Ordinance and any applicable codes adopted and enforced by the State of
Kentucky.”;
      (17)   Section 304.14. Insert: “April 1 to October 31”;
      (18)   Section 401.3. Delete: “International Building Code”. Insert:
“Kentucky Building Code, Kentucky Residential Code or any applicable code
adopted and enforced by the State of Kentucky”;
      (19)   Chapter 5. Delete: entire chapter. Insert: Plumbing Facilities and
Fixture Requirements shall comply with the Kentucky Plumbing Code and these
requirements shall be enforced by the Kentucky Division of Plumbing;
      (20)   Section 602.2 Delete: “based on the winter outdoor design
temperature for the locality indicated in Appendix D of the International
Plumbing Code.” Delete: “Exception: In areas where the average monthly
temperature is above 30 F (-1 C), a minimum temperature of 65 F (18 C) shall be
maintained”;
      (21)   Section 602.3. Insert: “October 1 to April 1” Delete: Exceptions
#1 and #2;
      (22)   Section 602.4. Insert: “October 1 to April 1”;
      (23)   Section 604.2. Delete: “ICC Electrical Code”. Insert: “NFPA 70
National Electrical Code”;
      (24)   Section 606 Delete: “Section 606 Elevators, Escalators and
Dumbwaiters in its entirety”. Insert: “Elevators, Escalators and Dumbwaiters
shall comply with all applicable state building codes and elevator codes and
these requirements shall be enforced by the Kentucky Department of Housing,
Buildings and Construction - Elevator Inspection Section”; and
      (25)   Chapter 7. Delete: entire chapter. Insert: “Fire Safety
Requirements shall comply with all Local and State Fire Codes and Life Safety
Codes and these requirements shall be enforced by the local fire department,
state fire marshal and/or the Kentucky Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction - General Inspection Section.”
(2005 Code, § 152.01) (Ord. 02-0401, passed 5-7-2002; Ord. 11-0301, passed 4-5-
2011) Penalty, see §
152.99
VACANT PROPERTY REGULATIONS
§ 152.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY ATTORNEY. The City Attorney of the City of Silver Grove or his or her
designee.
   CODE OFFICIAL. The Code Enforcement Officer of the City of Silver Grove or
his or her designee.
   FORECLOSED. A property upon which a mortgagee has filed an action in
foreclosure in order to recover monies pursuant to a mortgage agreement which
has been secured by a lien on property.
   MORTGAGEE. Any for-profit lender who is a party to a mortgage agreement and
whose interest in that agreement is secured by a lien on residential property.
   PERSON IN CONTROL. The person, persons, or entity holding title to the
freehold estate of the premises; a mortgagee or vendee in possession; a
receiver; an executor; a trustee; and any person, public or private entity,
lessee, or holder of a lesser estate in the premises, and/or its duly
authorized agent(s), with the authority to bring a building or premises into
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter, including, but not limited
to, any mortgagee that has filed an action in foreclosure on the particular
premises at issue, until title to the premises is transferred to a third party.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. A parcel of land which contains a dwelling or
structure that provides living accommodations for persons.
   VACANT. Unoccupied or without authorized human inhabitants. To be an
authorized human inhabitant, one must have changed his or her legal residence
to reflect same.
   VACANT, FORECLOSED PROPERTY REGISTRATION FORM. A form publicly available
from the City Clerk or Zoning Administrator that mortgagees subject to the
requirements of this subchapter must complete and submit as specified in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 13-0901, passed 10-3-2013)
§ 152.16 REGISTRATION OF VACANT FORECLOSED RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Initial filing.
      (1)   Within ten business days of filing a foreclosure action on
residential property that is vacant at the time of filing, the mortgagee shall
submit a vacant, foreclosed property registration form for the City Clerk or
Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   A mortgagee is not required to submit the vacant, foreclosed
registration form if the residential property located within the city is not
vacant on the date of the filing of a foreclosure action on the property.
However, if the residential property becomes vacant at any point during the
foreclosure process, the mortgagee shall submit a vacant, foreclosed property
registration form regarding the property to the city’s Zoning Administrator and
City Clerk within ten business days of the vacancy.
      (3)   The vacant, foreclosed property registration form shall contain the
following information:
         (a)   Description of the residential property, including, but not
limited to, the street address and parcel identification number;
         (b)   The name, street address, and telephone number of a natural
person, 18 years of age or older, or a business entity registered with the
Kentucky Secretary of State designated by the mortgagee as an authorized agent
for receiving notices of code violations and for receiving process in any court
proceeding or administrative enforcement proceeding on behalf of the mortgagee
in connection with enforcement of this subchapter, and this person or entity
must maintain an office in the state or must actually reside in the state; and
         (c)   The mortgagee shall pay the initial registration fee listed in §
152.17.
   (B)   Change of information. The mortgagee shall notify the city’s Zoning
Administrator and City Clerk within ten business days of any change of
information on the foreclosed property registration form. The vacant,
foreclosed property registration form shall be maintained with accurate
information until the property is sold at a judicial sale, transferred to a
bona fide owner-occupant, or an unaffiliated third party. The mortgagee shall
notify the Zoning Administrator and City Clerk in writing when the property is
transferred to a bona fide owner-occupant or an unaffiliated third party, the
property is reoccupied, or the property is sold at a judicial sale, so the
property may be promptly removed from the registry.
   (C)   Annual requirements. On an annual basis, the mortgagee shall pay the
annual registration fee listed in §
152.17.
(Ord. 13-0901, passed 10-3-2013)
§ 152.17 FEES.
   (A)   Fees. Mortgagees shall pay any required fees until the foreclosure is
dismissed or until the property is transferred to a third party. The fees for
the various requirements under this chapter are as follows.
 
Title of Fee             Fee Amount
Initial registration fee $500
Annual registration fee  $500
 
   (B)   Reimbursement exception. If the property is transferred or rented to a
third-party, which does not include a subsidiary corporation or other legal
entity of said third-party, within six months of the conclusion of the
foreclosure action, said initial registration fee shall be reimbursed.
(Ord. 13-0901, passed 10-3-2013)
§ 152.18 MAINTENANCE OBLIGATIONS OF MORTGAGEES.
   During the period that the property is registered, the mortgagee shall have
the obligations set forth in this section.
   (A)   Obligations. Vacant, foreclosed property shall be maintained free of
all outward appearances of foreclosure and vacancy during the registration
period including:
      (1)   No signs or placards on the exterior of the building or in the
windows indicating that the property is vacant or foreclosed;
      (2)   Grass shall be no higher than eight inches at any time and all
noxious weeds shall be removed;
      (3)   The premises shall be maintained free of debris and litter;
      (4)   The premises shall remain secure and locked. Broken windows and
doors which are visible from the right-of-way may be covered with plywood or
similar boarding material on an emergency basis, but for no more than ten
business days, while arrangements are being made to replace broken glass or
broken parts of the existing windows and doors. Broken windows and doors on the
rear or sides of the building may be boarded until the windows and doors are
repaired for re-occupancy, provided that the boarded openings are not visible
from public right-of-way;
      (5)   Windows and doors which are visible from the right-of-way may not
be boarded and shall be maintained in good repair;
      (6)   Handbills, circulars, and advertisements shall be removed from
porches and yards in a timely manner; and
      (7)   Standing water on the premises, including, but not limited to,
standing water in swimming pools, shall be eliminated.
   (B)   Additional requirements. The maintenance requirements and penalties in
this subchapter related to vacant, foreclosed residential properties are in
addition to, and shall not be considered in conflict with, any and all other
property maintenance requirements of the city ordinances. Nothing within this
subchapter shall be construed to limit the responsibilities of persons in
control to comply with and adhere to any and all building, housing, health, and
zoning ordinances established by the city. Nothing within this subchapter shall
be construed to limit or conflict with the responsibilities of persons in
control to comply with and adhere to any and all state and federal laws.
(Ord. 13-0901, passed 10-3-2013)
§ 152.19 POINT OF SALE INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Inspections. Point of sale inspections are hereby authorized on all
properties that are subject to the vacant, foreclosed property registration.
Mortgagees shall arrange to have all properties subject to the requirements of
this subchapter inspected by the Code Official within five business days of
filing for the property to be sold at a judicial sale. If the mortgagee fails
to arrange an inspection, the property shall be inspected by the Code Official
pursuant to Kentucky Revised Statute prior to the property being sold at a
judicial sale or pursuant to a search warrant issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Failed inspections. If, as a result of the above inspection, the Code
Official determines that health code violations, housing code violations,
hazards, or structural defects exist on the property, the Code Official shall
notify the City Attorney of these conditions. The City Attorney shall provide
written notice via certified mail to the mortgagee or the mortgagee’s agent, as
designated on the vacant, foreclosed property registration form, the owner of
record, and any equitable lien holders, informing the parties of the following:
      (1)   The need to repair and correct the violations, hazards, or
structural defects prior to the judicial sale;
      (2)   If the property is not brought into compliance within 30 calendar
days of the issuance of the notice of violation, the Code Official may correct
or repair some or all of the violations;
      (3)   If the Code Official corrects or repairs some or all of the
violations, the City Attorney shall promptly place a priority lien on the
property for the total cost of abating the violations. The City Attorney shall
collect the priority lien from the proceeds of the judicial sale of the
property, or upon any subsequent sale of the property, or by the methods
provided in Kentucky Revised Code. When notice is given as provided for in this
section, the lien shall be a priority over liens of prior record and the lien
will be effective on the date the city incurs the costs of repairs as provided
in Kentucky Revised Code.
   (C)   Bond. The mortgagee may post a bond in an amount equal to the cost of
abatement of the code violations which may include repair or demolition. The
mortgagee must submit to the Code Official written cost estimates by
contractors registered with the City of Highland Heights for abating the
violations. The Code Official will establish the bond amount based upon the
submitted cost estimates. The Code Official may extend the compliance date up
to 90 days if a bond is posted. An additional 90 days may be extended in
writing by the Code Official if good cause or diligence in abating the
violations is demonstrated. If the violations are not abated in conformance
with the terms of this section, the bond will be forfeited and the Code
Official shall cause the violations to be abated with the proceeds of the
forfeiture.
(Ord. 13-0901, passed 10-3-2013)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any provision of the code adopted in §
152.01 shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor under state law, punishable by
a fine up to $250 and by imprisonment up to 90 days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment. The imposition of any penalty for any violation shall not excuse
the violation or permit it to continue, and the violator shall be required to
correct or remedy said violation or defect within a reasonable time as directed
by the city. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   (1)   Failure to register property. Failure to register a vacant,
foreclosed property shall constitute a violation and shall be fined not less
than $10 nor more than $100 for the first offense and succeeding offenses. Each
day that such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate and distinct
offense.
      (2)   Failure to keep information accurate. Failure to maintain accurate
information once having registered shall constitute a violation and shall be
fined not less than $10 nor more than $100 for the first offense and succeeding
offenses. Each day that such violation shall continue shall be deemed a
separate and distinct offense.
      (3)   Failure to maintain property. Failure to maintain the property in
accordance with the maintenance provisions shall constitute a misdemeanor and
shall be fined not more than $500 the first day, and having once been notified,
each additional day that the property fails to meet the maintenance provisions
shall constitute a separate, subsequent misdemeanor.
(Ord. 11-0301, passed 4-5-2011; Ord. 13-0901, passed 10-3-2013)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Designation of Local Administrator
   
153.02   Adoption of revised flood damage prevention ordinance
Use of Land to Prevent Flood Damage
   
153.15   Fill permit required
   
153.16   Maximum height of property
   
153.17   Application for exception
   
153.18   Applicant to provide proof of fill level
   
153.19   Stop work order
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The city hereby appoints the Campbell County Floodplain Administrator to
administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this subchapter by
granting or denying development permits in the Special Flood Hazard Zones.
(Ord. 14-0101, passed 2-6-2013)
§ 153.02 ADOPTION OF REVISED FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city adopts the most current Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) and
flood damage prevention ordinance and subsequent amendments on file with the
county.
   (B)   (1)   The flood damage prevention ordinance shall apply to all areas
of special flood hazard within the jurisdiction of the city as identified by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency in the county flood insurance study,
and mandates that no structure or land in said areas shall hereafter be
located, or extended, converted, or structurally altered, without compliance
with its provisions;
      (2)   Requires the approval of the Floodplain Administrator and permit
from the City Mayor and the state’s Division of Water for the placement of new
construction, substantial improvements, or manufactured homes or businesses
within areas of special flood hazard;
      (3)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility requirement resistant to flood damage, and the
lowest floor of any residential or business structure constructed or
substantially improved shall have the lowest floor elevated to or above base
flood elevation; and
      (4)   Provides penalties and/or imprisonment for each day a violation of
this chapter continues.
(Ord. 14-0101, passed 2-6-2013)
USE OF LAND TO PREVENT FLOOD DAMAGE
§ 153.15 FILL PERMIT REQUIRED.
   In addition to any other federal and/or state and/or county permits
required, a fill permit shall be obtained from Sanitation District #1 and/or
through its Zoning Administrator, prior to any fill being placed on land within
the city.
(Ord. 07-0601, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 153.16 MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF PROPERTY.
   Land within the city limits of the city shall not be raised to a higher
level than 504 feet above sea level, which is one foot above the 100-year
floodplain level of 503 feet above sea level.
(Ord. 07-0601, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 153.17 APPLICATION FOR EXCEPTION.
   If an applicant desires to raise the level of land above the 504 feet
mentioned above, then said applicant shall submit an application to the city
explaining the need and the desire to raise the land level above the limit
mentioned above. If the City Council and the Building Inspector feel such
raising of the land is justified for development or insurance or other
purposes, then the City Building Inspector, with the consent of the City
Council, may issue a permit to allow additional fill to a limit specified in
the permit.
(Ord. 07-0601, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 153.18 APPLICANT TO PROVIDE PROOF OF FILL LEVEL.
   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to provide proof of the
level of the fill through a survey or other means.
(Ord. 07-0601, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 153.19 STOP WORK ORDER.
   If the City Building Inspector feels that any of the above noted provisions
are being violated, then said Building Inspector shall have the authority to
issue a stop work order prohibiting any additional fill being placed on the
property until the Building Inspector is satisfied that this subchapter and any
other applicable rules and regulations of the city, county, state, or federal
government are being complied with.
(Ord. 07-0601, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The violations of any of the provisions of §§
153.15 through
153.19 shall be considered a Class A misdemeanor punishable by up to one year
in jail and up to a $500 fine. In addition, the city may seek enforcement of §§
153.15 through
153.19 through any available civil action in the County Circuit Court.
(Ord. 07-0601, passed 7-3-2007)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
154.01   Adoption by reference
§ 154.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The subdivision regulations adopted by the Campbell County and Municipal
Planning and Zoning Commission enacted by Ordinance 83-03-01 on April 5, 1983,
and all subsequent revisions and amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if
set out at length herein. Copies shall be kept on file in the office of the
Zoning Administrator for public inspection during normal business hours.
(Ord. 83-03-01, passed 4-5-1983)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
   
155.01   Agreement to form joint planning unit
   
155.02   Adoption of zoning regulations and amendments
Cross-reference:
   Building and zoning permit fees, §
150.03
§ 155.01 AGREEMENT TO FORM JOINT PLANNING UNIT.
   The amended agreement dated pursuant to KRS 100.121 to form and operate a
joint planning unit is hereby approved.
(Ord. 88-0602, passed 7-5-1988)
§ 155.02 ADOPTION OF ZONING REGULATIONS AND AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   In order to promote the public health, safety, morals, and general
welfare of the city and the citizens, residents, owners, and occupants thereof;
and to facilitate orderly and harmonious development in the visual or
historical character of the city and to regulate the density of population and
intensity of land use therein in order to provide for adequate light and air,
and in order to provide for vehicle parking and loading space; and to
facilitate fire and police protection; and to prevent the overcrowding of land,
blight, danger, and congestion in circulation of people and commodities and the
loss of life, health, or property from fire, flood, and other dangers; and to
protect highways and other transportation facilities, public facilities,
including schools and public grounds, historical districts, central business
districts, natural resources, and other specific areas of the city which need
specific protections, and pursuant to the authority of KRS 100.121, 100.203,
and 100.207, the City Council hereby ordains as follows.
      (1)   The “proposed zoning ordinance” attached to Ordinance 82-1201, as
amended, and made a part of this code by reference, is hereby adopted as the
official zoning ordinance of the city.
      (2)   The official zoning ordinance of the city shall be available for
public inspection in the offices of the Zoning Administrator during normal
business hours.
   (B)   Any reference to the Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission in the
official zoning ordinance of the city is hereby deleted and there is also
hereby deleted any requirement of conducting any dealings whatsoever by any
entity with the Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission under the official
zoning ordinance of the city. Where there is any requirement under the zoning
ordinance to make application to or otherwise deal with the Northern Kentucky
Area Planning Commission under the official zoning ordinance, the application
or requirement shall be made to the City Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 82-1201, passed 12-9-1982; Ord. 84-0501, passed 6-5-1984; Ord. 88-0501,
passed 6-7-1988; Ord. 89-1001, passed - -1989; Ord. 05-07-01, passed 8-2-2005;
Ord. 09-06-01, passed 8-4-2009; Ord. 11-0501, passed 6-7-2011; Ord. 11-0502,
passed 6-7-2011; Ord. 17-0501, passed 6-1-2017; Ord. 18-0401, passed 5-3-2018;
Ord. 19-0901, passed 10-2-2019)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
Ord.  3-2-   Annexing four parcels:
4     1951
           (1) Parcel No. 1
           Beginning in the rear line of Lot 190 of the Silver Grove Land Company, at
             its intersection with the present southerly corporation line of the city.
           (2) Parcel No. 2
           Beginning in the northerly line of Ky. Route 8, at its intersection with
             the present easterly corporation line of the city.
           (3) Parcel No. 3
           Beginning in the present corporation line of the city at its intersection
             with the easterly line of Lot 165 of the Silver Grove Land Company.
           (4) Parcel No. 4
             Beginning in the center of Linden Road, at its intersection with the
           southerly line of the Silver Grove Land Company; said point of beginning
             being further described as the present southeasterly corner of the city.
Ord.  7-8-   Annexing certain territory beginning in the northerly line of Ky. Route 8
34    1955   in the westerly line of the city as originally incorporated.
             Annexing certain territory beginning in the present corporation line of
Ord.  4- -   the city at a point in the centerline of the longitudinal axis of the
65    1965   existing concrete culvert under the C. & O. Rwy. at Four Mile Creek, said
             point being seven feet northwardly from the centerline of the East Bound
             Main Track of the C. & O. Rwy. as measured radially thereto.
             Annexing certain land beginning at a point in the original easterly
             corporation line of the city at its point of intersection with the north
Ord.  3-4-   right-of-way line of Ky. Route 8 (also known as Mary Inglis Highway), said
80-3  1980   point being approximately 280 feet west of the point of intersection of
             the north right-of-way line of Ky. Route 8 and the northwardly extension
             of the centerline of Linden Road containing approximately 51 acres.
             Annexing a parcel of land containing approximately 504 acres lying on the
Ord.  10-5-  northerly side of the existing city limits and being more particularly
82-   1982   described as follows: beginning at a point in the original easterly
0901         corporation line of the city, said point also being the most northwesterly
             corner of a 51-acre tract previously annexed by the city on March 4, 1980.
             Annexing a one-acre parcel of land lying on the northeasterly side of Mary
Ord.         Inglis Highway (Ky. Route 8) and adjacent to a 504-acre parcel previously
84-   3-6-   annexed to the city and being more particularly described as follows:
0201  1984   beginning at a point in the centerline of Ky. Route 8, said point also
             being 2,400 feet southeast of the most southwesterly corner of a 504-acre
             parcel previously annexed to the city.
             Annexing a 53-acre parcel of land lying on the northeasterly side of Mary
Ord.  3-6-   Inglis Highway (Ky. Route 8) and adjacent to the existing northwesterly
84-   1984   city limits and being more particularly described as follows: beginning at
0202         a point in the centerline of Ky. Route 8, said point also being the most
             southwesterly corner of a 504-acre parcel previously annexed to the city.
             Annexing a 96-acre parcel of land lying on the southerly side of the
Ord.  3-6-   existing city limits and being more particularly described as follows:
84-   1984   beginning at a point in the rear line of Lot 190 of the Silver Grove Land
0203         Company, said point also being the most southwesterly corner of the
             original city limits.
             Annexing a 15-acre parcel of land lying on the southerly side of the
Ord.  10-1-  existing city limits and being more particularly described as follows:
85-   1985   beginning at a point in the existing southerly city limits, said point
0901         also being the most northeasterly corner of the Campbell County School
             District property.
             Annexing a certain parcel of land lying on the southwesterly side of the
             present city limits, being all of the property of Thomas Paul and Terry
Ord.  4-3-   Wells recorded in Deed Book 452, page 236 of the Campbell County Clerk’s
90-   1990   records and the southerly one-half of the right-of-way of Mary Inglis
0301         Highway from the Ft. Thomas city limits southeast to a point just east of
             Ky. Route 1998 where all of the right-of-way of Mary Inglis Highway is
             within the city.
             Annexing a certain parcel of land lying on the southwesterly side of Mary
Ord.  9-8-   Inglis Highway and adjacent to the present city limits, being all of the
92-   1992   Robert J. Appel, Jr. property (one acre) as recorded in Deed Book 541,
0801         page 138, and Casey’s Lake & Lounge, Inc. property (10.1 acres) as
             recorded in Deed Book 441, page 286.
Ord.  12-1-  Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 8.278
22-   2022   acres located along KY 547 at the Green Valley Mobile Home Park and
1101         adjacent to the city limits.
Ord.  2-2-   Amending Ordinance 22-1101 annexing certain territory to reflect
23-   2023   annexation of 17.637 acres more or less.
0101
Ord.  8-3-   Annexing certain territory consisting of a parcel of approximately 14
23-   2023   acres Parcel IV, St. Anne Convent and adjacent to the city limits.
0701
Ord.  12-7-  Amending Ordinance 23-0101 annexing certain territory to reflect
23-   2023   annexation of 17.475 acres more or less.
1101
            
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No.   Date Passed Description
Ord. 85B        1-4-1972    Granting a franchise to the Union Light, Heat, and
                            Power Company.
Ord. 105        8-3-1976    Contracting with the Union Light, Heat, and Power
                            Company for street lighting.
                            Ratifying and affirming the contract entered into
                            by the Campbell County Fiscal Court and Storer
Ord. 81-1-1     11-3-1981   Communications of Northern Ky., Inc. to erect,
                            construct, and operate a regional cable television
                            system within the city.
                            Granting a franchise for the operation of a cable
Res. 15-0401    4-2-2015    television system within the confines of the city
                            to Insight Kentucky Partners II, L.P.
                            Establishing a non-exclusive franchise for the
Ord. 17-0701    8-3-2017    distribution of natural gas and electricity in the
                            city.
                            Establishing a non-exclusive franchise for the
Ord. 18-0501    6-7-2018    transmission and distribution of either or both
                            natural gas and electricity through and for
                            consumption within the city
                            Confirming the award of a non-exclusive franchise
Res. 18-0801    8-2-2018    to Duke Energy for a term of three years for the
                            transmission and distribution of natural gas and
                            electricity
                            Establishing a non-exclusive franchise to Duke
Ord. 22-0301  3-4-2022    Energy for the transmission and distribution of
                            natural gas and electricity.
                            Confirming the award of a non-exclusive franchise
Res. 23-0901    9-7-2023    to Duke Energy Kentucky for a term of three years
                            for the transmission and distribution of natural
                            gas and electricity.
                           
 
TABLE III: AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
Ord.  6-2-   Election to participate in the Kentucky Municipal Risk Management Association’s
87-   1987   program for self-insurance, insurance, and investment of public funds.
05-01
Ord.  12-4-  Authorizing an interlocal agreement with other units of local government to
90-   1990   provide for licensing fees, to adopt a standardized state electric contractor’s
1101         examination, and setting the fine and penalty for violations.
Ord.         Authorizing an interlocal agreement between the Campbell County Fiscal Court
93-   1-4-   and Cities of Campbell County establishing the Campbell County Cable Board as
1201  1994   the cable television regulatory authority for the participating local
             governments.
Ord.  4-4-   Adopting an amended agreement changing the membership on the Campbell County
00-   2000   and Municipal Planning and Zoning Commission.
03-03
Ord.  9-2-   Adopting an amended agreement to form and operate a joint planning unit
02-   2002   pursuant to KRS 100.121.
08-02
Res.  2-4-   A resolution agreeing to enter into an interlocal agreement with Sanitation
03-   2003   District No. One to provide KPDES Storm Water Permit Discharge Services and
0201         other storm water related services.
Ord.  11-1-
05-   2005   Agreement concerning the County and Municipal Board of Adjustment Commission.
10-01
Ord.  5-6-
08-   2008   Approving a lease agreement with PNC Bank.
04-01
Ord.  4- -
13-   2013   Approving a lease agreement with PNC Bank.
0304
Res.  7-2-   Memorandum of agreement for development and implementation of a Northern
15-   2015   Kentucky Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan.
0702
Res.  9-10-  Adopting and approving a contract between the city and Campbell County Fiscal
15-   2015   Court for the county to provide police coverage and dissolve the Silver Grove
0901         City Police Department.
Res.  1-7-   Authorizing the Mayor to sign the agreement for participation in private sewer
16-   2016   lateral repair program between SDI and the city.
0102
Res.  7-7-   Authorizing and directing the Mayor to enter into a contract with Stephen G.
16-   2016   Dasenbrock, Attorney-at-Law for the purpose of providing legal services to the
0701         city.
Res.  7-7-   Entering into an interlocal agreement for building inspection and plan review
16-   2016   services between the Campbell County Fiscal Court and the city.
0702
Res.  5-25-  Authorizing the city to hold 50% reserve of proposed project costs for the
23-   2023   purpose of matching the Land and Water Conservation Fund assistance and
0502         authorizing the Mayor to sign compliance documents regarding grant award.
Ord.  6-1-
23-   2023   Approving a lease agreement with Truist Bank.
0502
Res.  12-7-  Authorizing the assumption of existing leases and authorizing the Mayor to
23-   2023   execute documents to assume leases and purchase the Morscher Sports Complex at
1201         4790 Mary Ingles Highway.
Res.  2-18-  Authorizing the Mayor to sign an agreement between the city and the Kentucky
25-   2025   Transportation Cabinet for the KY8 Sidewalk Project.
0201
            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to 2005 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Cites Code Section
KRS Cites                   Code Section
6.050                       32.43
6.955 to 6.975              33.04
Chapter 13A                 93.01
Chapter 13B                 93.06
16.220                      72.30
18A.225                     112.03
                            111.02,
Title 20                    111.17,
                            111.20,
                            111.23
42.450 to 42.495            33.04
Chapter 45A                 34.26
Chapter 56                  34.26
Chapter 61                  32.16
61.823(2) - (4)             91.20
61.810                      36.066
61.870 to 61.884            34.27,
                            36.070
61.870(1)                   34.01
61.870(2)                   34.01
61.870(3)                   34.01
61.870(4)                   34.01
61.870(5)                   34.01
61.870(6)                   34.01
61.870(7)                   34.01
61.870(8)                   34.01
61.872 to 61.884            36.025
61.872(1) through 61.872(3) 34.15
61.872(4)                   34.16
61.872(5)                   34.17
61.872(6)                   34.18
61.874(1)                   34.22
61.874(2)                   34.22
61.874(3)                   34.23
61.874(4)                   34.23
61.874(5)                   34.24
61.874(6)                   34.24
61.878                      34.01
61.878(1)(a) - (o), (s)     34.26
61.878(2)                   34.26
61.878(3)                   34.26
61.878(4)                   34.26
61.878(5)                   34.26
61.880(1)                   34.19,
                            34.26
61.884                      34.21
62.060                      31.04
65.003                      36.003
65.067                      31.04
65.8801 to 65.8839          38.02,
                            38.12
65.8805                     38.01
65.8815(5)                  38.05
65.8825(4)(a)               38.13
65.8825(4)(h)               38.13
65.8840                     38.01
78.510(21)                  35.02
82.082                      36.003
82.725                      38.15
Chapter 83A                 31.15
83A.010 to 83A.120          30.01
83A.010(5)                  10.02
83A.010(6)                  10.02
83A.010(8)                  10.02
83A.030(1)                  30.02
83A.040(1)                  31.16
83A.040(2)(a)               31.16
83A.040(2)(c)               31.16
83A.040(2)(d)               31.16
83A.040(3)                  31.16
83A.040(4)                  32.01
83A.040(5)                  32.02
83A.040(6)                  31.16,
                            32.02
83A.040(7)                  31.16,
                            32.02
83A.040(8)                  31.16,
                            32.02
83A.040(9)                  31.03
83A.050                     31.15,
                            32.01
83A.060(1)                  32.30
83A.060(2)                  32.31
83A.060(3)                  32.32
83A.060(4)                  32.33
83A.060(5)                  32.35
83A.060(6)                  32.17
83A.060(7)                  32.33
83A.060(8)                  32.36
83A.060(8)(a)               32.37
83A.060(8)(b)               32.37
83A.060(9)                  32.38
83A.060(10)                 32.39
83A.060(11)                 32.40
83A.060(12)                 32.41
83A.060(13)                 32.41
83A.060(14)                 32.42
83A.060(15)                 32.43
83A.065                     10.99
83A.070                     31.02
83A.070(1)                  31.02
83A.070(2)                  31.02
83A.070(3)                  31.02
83A.075                     31.02
83A.080                     36.004
83A.080(1)                  31.30
83A.080(2)                  31.30
83A.080(3)                  31.03,
                            31.30
83A.080(4)                  31.15
83A.080(5)                  31.15
83A.085                     31.31
83A.090                     10.18
83A.130 to 83A.150          31.16
83A.130(1)                  30.01
83A.130(2)                  30.02
83A.130(3)                  31.16
83A.130(4)                  31.16
83A.130(5)                  32.15
83A.130(6)                  32.34
83A.130(7)                  31.16
83A.130(8)                  31.16
83A.130(9)                  31.16
83A.130(10)                 31.16
83A.130(11)                 32.03,
                            32.16
83A.130(12)                 32.03
83A.130(13)                 32.03
83A.175                     32.02
91A.010                     33.01
91A.010(4)                  10.02
91A.010(8)                  10.02
91A.020                     33.02
91A.030                     33.03
91A.040                     33.04,
                            33.99
91A.050                     33.04
91A.060                     33.05
91A.080(2)                  112.02
91A.080(3)                  112.03
91A.080(4)                  Ch. 112
91A.080(7)                  112.04
91A.080(8)                  112.04,
                            112.05
91A.080(9)                  112.04
91A.080(10)                 112.03
91A.080(13)                 112.03
91A.200                     33.21
91A.210                     33.20
91A.220                     33.21
91A.230                     33.22
91A.240                     33.23
91A.250                     33.24
91A.260                     33.25
91A.270                     33.26
91A.280                     33.27
91A.290                     33.28
99.600(5)                   37.07
99.605(1)                   37.07
99.605(5)                   37.07
99.959 to 99.605            37.07
Chapter 100                 151.02
                            155.01,
100.121                     155.02,
                            TSO III
100.203                     155.02
100.207                     155.02
Chapter 107                 33.21
Chapters 116 through 121    31.15
118.305(7)                  32.02
131.010(6)                  112.04
131.190                     35.26
132.285                     37.01
132.452                     37.07
134.800                     37.04
134.810                     37.04
139.200                     93.03
Chapter 154                 34.26
174.100                     91.20
174.100(1)                  91.21
174.100(2)                  91.22
174.100(3)                  91.23
174.100(4)                  91.24
174.100(5)                  91.25
186.020                     72.30
186.560                     71.35
186A.145                    72.30
186A.190                    72.30
Chapter 189                 70.04
189.020                     71.37
189.285                     73.02
189.287                     73.01
189.290                     71.35
189.330(8)                  71.02
189.338                     70.20
189.390(4)                  71.05
189.394                     71.05,
                            Ch. 74, Sch. III
189.450(5)                  72.03
189.450(6)                  72.03
189.580                     71.20
189.725                     72.07
189.930                     71.36
189.990(1)                  72.99
189.993(8)                  71.99
198B.060(8)                 150.01
198B.070                    150.02
226.010                     113.01
226.020                     113.02
226.030                     113.07
226.040                     113.03
226.050                     113.04
226.060                     113.08
226.070                     113.03
226.080                     113.05
226.090                     113.06
226.100                     113.08
226.990(1)                  113.99
226.990(3)                  113.99
227.330(6)                  93.03
227.550                     92.04
227.700                     93.01
227.700 to 227.750          93.01,
                            93.06
227.702                     93.01
227.704                     93.01
227.706                     93.01
227.708                     93.01
227.710                     93.01
227.715                     93.01,
                            93.03
227.720                     93.04
227.730                     93.05
227.750                     93.06
227.990(4)                  93.99
241.010                     111.03
241.160                     111.53
241.190                     111.53
243.015                     111.03
243.520                     111.53
257.010                     90.01
257.100                     90.06
281.605(12)                 72.30
281.830                     70.40
281.920 to 281.936          72.30
281.926                     72.30
281.928                     72.30
281.928(1)                  72.30
281.932                     72.30
Chapter 304, Subtitle 17B   112.03
Chapter 342                 112.03
359.230                     72.30
376.275(1)                  72.30
376.275(2)                  72.30
376.275(3)                  72.31
381.770                     38.15
381.770(1)(a)               92.01
381.770(1)(b)               92.01
381.770(1)(c)               92.01
381.770(1)(d)               92.01
381.770(2)                  92.04
381.770(3)                  92.04
381.770(7)                  92.04
381.770(8)                  92.04
381.770(9)                  92.04
383.505 through 383.705     97.01
                            33.04,
Chapter 424                 33.24,
                            33.25
424.220                     33.04
424.260                     33.40
436.600                     90.04,
                            90.99
446.010(1)                  10.02
446.010(2)                  10.02
446.010(9)                  10.02
446.010(10)                 10.02
446.010(12)                 10.02
446.010(13)                 10.02
446.010(14)                 10.02
446.010(15)                 10.02
446.010(17)                 10.02
446.010(18)                 10.02
446.010(23)                 10.02
446.010(25)                 10.02
446.010(26)                 10.02
446.010(27)                 10.02
446.010(28)                 10.02
446.010(30)                 10.02
446.010(31)                 10.02
446.010(33)                 10.02
446.010(37)                 10.02
446.010(39)                 10.02
446.010(43)                 10.02
446.010(46)                 10.02
446.010(47)                 10.02
446.010(49)                 10.02
446.010(55)                 10.02
446.020(1)                  10.03
446.020(2)                  10.03
446.030                     10.04
446.050                     10.05
446.060                     10.06
446.080(1)                  10.03
446.080(3)                  10.03
446.080(4)                  10.03
446.090                     10.07
446.100                     10.08
446.110                     10.09
446.140                     10.01
525.125                     90.03
                            90.02,
525.130                     90.03,
                            90.99
525.135                     90.03
Chapter 527                 92.03
Chapter 530                 35.02
534.040                     10.99
610.200 through 610.280     130.01
635.010                     130.99
635.010 et seq.             130.99
635.020                     130.99
635.060                     130.99
635.070                     130.99
635.080                     130.99
635.085                     130.99
635.100                     130.99
                            
 
REFERENCES TO 2005 CODE
2005 Code Section 2018 Code Section
2005 Code Section 2018 Code Section
31.37             31.32
31.39             31.33
31.50             31.45
32.20             32.15
32.21             32.16
33.30             33.40
36.01             36.001
36.02             36.002
36.03             36.003
36.04             36.004
36.05             36.005
36.15             36.020
36.16             36.021
36.17             36.022
36.18             36.023
36.19             36.024
36.20             36.025
36.21             36.026
36.22             36.027
36.30             36.040
36.31             36.041
36.32             36.042
36.33             36.043
36.34             36.044
36.35             36.045
36.45             36.060
36.46             36.061
36.47             36.062
36.48             36.063
36.49             36.064
36.50             36.065
36.51             36.066
36.52             36.067
36.53             36.068
36.54             36.069
36.55             36.070
36.99             36.999
37.05             37.05
70.01             70.01
70.02             70.02
70.05             70.03
70.06             70.04
70.15             70.20
70.16             70.21
70.17             70.22
70.18             70.23
70.19             70.24
70.20             70.25
70.21             70.26
70.34             70.40
70.99             70.99
71.01             71.01
71.02             71.02
71.03             71.03
71.04             71.04
71.05             71.05
71.15             71.20
71.16             71.21
71.25             71.35
71.26             71.36
71.27             71.37
71.99             71.99
72.01             72.01
72.02             72.02
72.03             72.03
72.04             72.04
72.05             72.05
72.06             72.06
72.07             72.07
72.08             72.08
72.09             72.09
72.10             72.10
72.12             72.12
72.13             72.13
72.14             72.14
72.15             72.15
72.21             72.30
72.22             72.31
72.35             72.45
72.36             72.46
72.37             72.47
72.38             72.48
72.38             72.99
73.01             73.01
73.02             73.02
73.03             73.03
73.99             73.99
Ch. 74, Sch. I    Ch. 74, Sch. I
Ch. 74, Sch. II   Ch. 74, Sch. II
Ch. 74, Sch. III  Ch. 74, Sch. III
Ch. 75, Sch. I    Ch. 75, Sch. I
Ch. 75, Sch. II   Ch. 75, Sch. II
Ch. 75, Sch. III  Ch. 75, Sch. III
90.15             90.20
90.16             90.21
90.17             90.22
90.18             90.23
90.20             90.24
90.21             90.25
90.22             90.26
90.23             90.27
90.24             90.28
90.30             90.40
90.31             90.41
90.32             90.42
90.33             90.43
90.99             90.99
91.01             91.01
91.02             91.02
91.03             91.03
91.04             91.04
91.05             91.05
91.06             91.06
91.07             91.07
91.45             91.55
91.46             91.56
91.47             91.57
91.48             91.58
91.49             91.59
91.50             91.60
91.99             91.99
95.01             95.01
96.01             96.01
97.01             97.01
110.01            110.01
110.10            110.15
110.11            110.16
110.12            110.17
110.13            110.18
110.14            110.19
110.20            110.30
110.21            110.31
110.23            110.33
110.24            110.34
110.25            110.35
110.26            110.36
110.27            110.37
110.28            110.38
110.29            110.39
110.30            110.40
110.31            110.41
110.32            110.42
110.33            110.43
110.34            110.44
110.99            110.99
111.01            111.01
111.02            111.02
111.03            111.03
111.15            111.15
111.16            111.16
111.17            111.17
111.18            111.18
111.19            111.19
111.20            111.20
111.21            111.21
111.22            111.22
111.23            111.23
111.35            111.35
111.36            111.36
111.45            111.50
111.46            111.51
111.47            111.52
111.48            111.53
111.99            111.99
113.01            113.01
113.02            113.02
113.03            113.03
113.04            113.04
113.05            113.05
113.06            113.06
113.07            113.07
113.08            113.08
113.99            113.99
114.01            114.01
114.02            114.02
114.03            114.03
114.04            114.04
114.99            114.99
130.02            130.01
130.99            130.99
150.01            150.01
150.02            150.02
150.03            150.03
150.04            150.04
150.06            150.05
150.99            150.99
151.01            151.01
151.02            151.02
152.01            152.01
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
87-0101  1-6-1987    32.16
88-0701  7-5-1988    31.45
03-0201  2-4-2003    TSO III
17-0701  7-6-2017    39.01
18-0801  8-2-2018    TSO II
15-0401  4-2-2015    TSO II
15-0702  7-2-2015    TSO III
15-0901  9-10-2015   TSO III
06-0102  1-7-2016    TSO III
16-0701  7-7-2016    TSO III
16-0702  7-7-2016    TSO III
18-0801  8-2-2018    TSO II
23-0502  5-25-20203  TSO III
23-0901  9-7-2023    TSO II
23-1201  12-7-2023   TSO III
25-0201  2-18-2025   TSO III
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
4         3-2-1951    TSO I
6         5-4-1951    91.02,
                      91.03
12        6-1-1951    70.04,
                      71.05
16        12-7-1951   91.06
19        4-4-1952    72.03
31        8-6-1954    150.04
33        2-4-1955    150.04
34        7-8-1955    TSO I
46        9-5-1957    93.22
                      111.01 –
54        5-3-1960    111.03,
                      111.15 –
                      111.23
56        7-3-1962    150.04
57        7-3-1962    150.04
65        4- -1965    TSO I
69        8-2-1966    91.55 –
                      91.60
73        1-2-1968    111.35
74        1-7-1969    150.04
76        7-1-1969    72.13
85B       1-4-1972    TSO II
88        8- -1973    Ch. 75, Sch. I
97        - -1975     Ch. 74, Sch. II
101       11-4-1975   Ch. 75, Sch. I,
                      Ch. 75, Sch. III
105       8-3-1976    TSO II
109       6-7-1977    Ch. 75, Sch. II
112       6-6-1978    31.32
80-3      3-4-1980    TSO I
80-6-4    6-3-1980    95.01
80-10-07  10-7-1980   33.40
81-03-01  3-3-1981    10.99
81-04-01  4-7-1981    32.15
81-1-1    11-3-1981   TSO II
82-06-01  6-1-1982    72.03,
                      Ch. 75, Sch. II
82-0901   10-5-1982   TSO I
82-1101   11-4-1982   151.01
82-1201   12-9-1982   155.02
83-03-01  4-5-1983    154.01
83-0401   5-3-1983    Ch. 74, Sch. II
90        12-4-1983   Ch. 75, Sch. I
83-1101   12-6-1983   Ch. 75, Sch. I
84-0101   2-7-1984    150.03
84-0201   3-6-1984    TSO I
84-0202   3-6-1984    TSO I
84-0203   3-6-1984    TSO I
84-0501   6-5-1984    155.02
84-1001   11-6-1984   Ch. 75, Sch. I
85-0301   4-2-1985    Ch. 75, Sch. I
85-0901   10-1-1985   TSO I
86-0602   7-1-1986    72.12
86-0603   7-1-1986    111.50 –
                      111.53
86-0801   9-2-1986    96.01
86-106-02 11-4-1986   Ch. 74, Sch. I
87-0201   3-3-1987    111.36,
                      111.99
87-05-01  6-2-1987    TSO III
88-0501   6-7-1988    155.02
88-0601   7-5-1988    Ch. 75, Sch. I
88-0602   7-5-1988    155.01
88-1101   12-6-1988   Ch. 74, Sch. I
89-1001   - -1989     155.02
89-0101   2-7-1989    151.02
                      110.01,
                      110.15 –
                      110.19,
89-0301   4-4-1989    110.30,
                      110.31,
                      110.33 –
                      110.44,
                      110.99
90-0301   4-3-1990    TSO I
90-0801   9-4-1990    72.14
90-1102   12-3-1990   150.05
90-1101   12-4-1990   TSO III
90-1103   12-4-1990   72.15
91-1001   11-5-1991   151.02
92-0801   9-8-1992    TSO I
93-0401   5-4-1993    130.01,
                      130.99
                      90.20 –
93-0601   7-6-1993    90.28,
                      90.99
                      90.40 –
93-0602   7-6-1993    90.43,
                      90.99
93-0603   7-6-1993    90.07,
                      90.99
93-1201   1-4-1994    TSO III
94-0201   2-25-1994   91.07
94-0501   6-7-1994    150.01
94-0701   8-2-1994    73.99,
                      Ch. 75, Sch. II
                      36.001 –
                      36.005,
                      36.020 –
                      36.027,
94-1002   10-4-1994   36.040 –
                      36.045,
                      36.060 –
                      36.070,
                      36.999
94-1201   12-16-1994  37.05
95-0801   9-5-1995    35.02
95-0802   9-5-1995    90.99
95-1001   10-16-1995  37.05
96-10-01  10-8-1996   37.05
96-1002   11-5-1996   72.99;
                      Ch. 75, Sch. III
97-0504   6-3-1997    150.01
98-0801   9-8-1998    97.01
98-1201   1-5-1999    150.03,
                      150.99
00-0302   4-4-2000    72.99,
                      Ch. 75, Sch. I
00-03-03  4-4-2000    TSO III
01-02-02  3-7-2001    96.01
01-0401   5-1-2001    90.99
01-0402   7-3-2001    150.01,
                      150.99
02-0301   4-1-2002    110.16
02-0401   5-7-2002    152.01
02-08-02  9-2-2002    TSO III
03-0301   4-1-2003    90.99
                      72.99,
03-0801   1-6-2004    Ch. 74, Sch. I,
                      Ch. 75, Sch. I
04-0101   2-3-2004    72.99,
                      Ch. 75, Sch. I
04-0401   5-4-2004    90.99
05-0201   3-1-2005    150.01,
                      150.99
05-0202   3-1-2005    150.01,
                      150.99
05-07-01  8-2-2005    155.02
05-09-01  10-4-2005   37.05
05-10-01  11-1-2005   TSO III
05-1101   12-6-2005   96.01
06-10-01  10-9-2006   37.05
06-1101   12-4-2006   91.44,
                      91.99
06-11-02  12-4-2006   151.02
06-1103   12-4-2006   32.16
                      153.15 –
07-0601   7-3-2007    153.19,
                      153.99
07-0901   10-2-2007   72.17,
                      72.99
07-09-02  10-2-2007   37.05
                      50.01 –
07-1201   1-7-2008    50.03,
                      50.99
08-04-01  5-6-2008    TSO III
09-04-01  5-5-2009    150.01
09-0402   5-5-2009    150.01
                      72.45,
09-0403   5-5-2009    72.47,
                      72.48,
                      72.99
09-06-01  8-4-2009    155.02
09-10-01  11-3-2009   37.05
10-0401   4-13-2010   71.38,
                      71.99
10-0501   6-1-2010    130.02,
                      130.99
10-0502   6-1-2010    72.16,
                      72.99
10-09-01  10-12-2010  37.05
11-1201   1-3-2011    92.01
11-0101   2-1-2011    35.01
11-0301   4-5-2011    152.01,
                      152.99
11-0303   4-5-2011    91.06
11-0501   6-7-2011    155.02
11-0502   6-7-2011    155.02
11-0701   8-2-2011    110.32
11-09-01  10-4-2011   37.05
11-1001   11-1-2011   73.99,
                      Ch. 74, Sch. I
                      150.20 –
12-0301   4-3-2012    150.25,
                      150.99
12-0501   6-5-2012    50.01
12-09-02  10-2-2012   37.05
14-0101   2-6-2013    153.01,
                      153.02
13-0304   4- -2013     
13-08-01  9-5-2013    37.05
                      152.15 –
13-0901   10-3-2013   152.19,
                      152.99
14-09-02  10-2-2014   37.05
15-09-02  10-1-2015   37.05
15-1002   11-5-2015   151.02
16-0701   8-4-2016    150.01
16-10-01  11-3-2016   37.05
16-1101   12-1-2016   38.01 –
                      38.15
17-0401   5-11-2017   90.99
17-0501   6-1-2017    155.02
17-0701   8-3-2017    TSO II
17-09-01  10-5-2017   37.05
                      38.01,
17-1201   1-4-2018    92.03,
                      92.04
18-0401   5-3-2018    155.02
18-0501   6-7-2018    TSO II
18-0602   7-5-2018    91.58,
                      91.59
19-0301   4-4-2019    32.16
19-0302   4-4-2019    90.40
19-0303   4-4-2019    Adopting Ordinance
19-0601   7-17-2019   37.07
19-0801   9-5-2019    Adopting Ordinance
19-0901   10-3-2019   155.02
19-0902   11-7-2019   37.05
20-0801   9-3-2020    Adopting Ordinance
                      90.07,
21-0401   5-6-2021    90.21,
                      90.99
21-0402   5-6-2021    92.01,
                      92.07
21-0901   10-7-2021   37.05
22-0301   3-4-2022    TSO II
22-0901   10-6-2022   37.05
22-1001   11-3-2022   90.99
22-1101   12-1-2022   TSO I
23-0101   2-2-2023    TSO I
23-0502   6-1-2023    TSO III
23-0701   12-1-2022   TSO I
23-0901   8-3-2023    37.05
23-1101   12-7-2023   TSO I
24-0901   10-3-2024   37.05
25-0301   4-3-2025    Ch. 74, Sch. II
                     
 
