SIMPSONVILLE, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-16 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2023-006, passed 8-15-2023; and
State legislation current through KRS Pamphlet 2023
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
Ronnie Sowder, Mayor
Steve Eden, City Administrator
Kelland Garland, Commissioner
Michael Hesse, Commissioner
Scott McDowell, Commissioner
Austin Dupré, Commissioner
Denise Miller, City Clerk
James Hite Hays, City Attorney
Chelsey Brammell, City Attorney
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2008-009
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF SIMPSONVILLE, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the Revised Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Simpsonville, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Commission to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Simpsonville:
   SECTION 1. That the Revised Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Simpsonville, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
   This ordinance shall be effective upon adoption by the Simpsonville City
Commission and publication in accordance with Chapter 424 of the Kentucky
Revised Statutes.
FIRST READING: April 16, 2008
SECOND READING: May 6, 2008
PASSED & APPROVED: May 6, 2008
                                       APPROVED:
                                       Steve Eden /s/
                                       STEVE EDEN, MAYOR
ATTEST:
Debbie Batliner /s/
DEBBIE BATLINER, CITY CLERK
ORDINANCE NO. 2013-004
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF SIMPSONVILLE, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2013 S-5 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Simpsonville, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Commission to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Simpsonville:
   SECTION 1. That the 2013 S-5 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Simpsonville, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
   This ordinance shall be effective upon adoption by the Simpsonville City
Commission and publication in accordance with Chapter 424 of the Kentucky
Revised Statutes.
FIRST READING: May 7, 2013
SECOND READING: May 15, 2013
PASSED this 15th day of May 2013
Published in paper: May 17, 2013
                              APPROVED:
                              Steve Eden /s/
                              STEVE EDEN, MAYOR
ATTEST:
Debbie Batliner /s/
DEBBIE BATLINER, CITY CLERK
ORDINANCE # 2013-010
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF SIMPSONVILLE, KENTUCKY.
Now therefore Be It Ordained by the City Commission of the City of Simpsonville
as follows:
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2013 S-6 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Simpsonville, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Commission to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Simpsonville:
   SECTION 1. That the 2013 S-6 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Simpsonville, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed on First Reading: 17th of July 2013
Adopted on Seconded Reading: 6th of August 2013
Passed this 6th of August 2013
Published in Paper: 9th of August 2013
                              Steve Eden /s/
                              Steve Eden/Mayor
ATTEST:
Debbie Batliner /s/
Debbie Batliner/City Clerk
ORDINANCE # 2016-010
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF SIMPSONVILLE, KENTUCKY.
Now therefore Be It Ordained by the City Commission of the City of Simpsonville
as follows:
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Simpsonville, which supplements contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Commission to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Simpsonville:
   SECTION 1. That the supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Simpsonville, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation
of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this 3rd of November, 2016
First Reading: October 13, 2016
Second Reading: 11/3/16
Adoption: 11/3/16
                              Steve Eden /s/
                              Steve Eden/Mayor
ATTEST:
Debbie Batliner /s/
Debbie Batliner/City Clerk
ORDINANCE # 2020-007
CITY OF SIMPSONVILLE
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF SIMPSONVILLE, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Simpsonville, which supplements contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, America Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statues;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Commission to accept these updated sections in
accordance with changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Simpsonville:
   SECTION 1. That the supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Simpsonville, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation
of Cincinnati, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in
its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this 19th of May, 2020
First Reading: May 4, 2020
Second Reading: May 19, 2020
Published: May 22, 2020
                                                                    
                           Cary T. Vowels/Mayor
ATTEST:
                                             
Denise Miller/City Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Simpsonville, Kentucky, Code, for which designation "codified ordinances" or
"code" may be substituted. Code, title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   (1)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to
such components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may
be referred to and cited by its name, such as the "traffic code."
      (2)   Sections may be referred to and cited by the designation "§"
followed by the number, such as "§ 10.01." Headings and captions used in this
code other than the title, chapter and section numbers, are employed for
reference purposes only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any
section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of the state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature, except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The Automated Vehicle Information System established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator's
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   BUSINESS TRUST. Includes, except when utilized in KRS Chapter 386, a
“statutory trust” as organized under KRS Chapter 386A.
(KRS 446.010(6))
   CERTIFIED MAIL. Any method of governmental, commercial, or electronic
delivery that allows a document or package to have proof of:
      (1)   Sending the document of package;
      (2)   The date the document or package was delivered or delivery was
attempted; and
      (3)   The signature of the receipt of the document or package.
(KRS 446.010(8))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code, shall
denote the City of Simpsonville, irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMMISSION. The City Commission.
(KRS 83A.010(3))
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNTY. Shelby County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, includes all those incorporated or formed by
authority of the state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Commission.
(KRS 83A.010(6))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
business trust, statutory trust, or limited liability company, includes all
those incorporated or formed by authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Commission.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Commissioner.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes,
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, or camelid
species.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Simpsonville, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes AFFIRMATION in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited partnerships.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban- county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers and other persons with similar authority to
make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property, except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county, state
or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Any governmental, commercial, or electronic method of
delivery that allows a document or package to have:
      (1)   Its chain of custody recorded in a register to enable its location
to be tracked;
      (2)   Insurance available to cover its loss; and
      (3)   The signature of the recipient of the document or package available
to the sender.
(KRS 446.010(36))
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SWORN. Includes AFFIRMED in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER.
      (1)   A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
      (2)   Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Such as exists when there is an unexpired part of a term
of office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the person elected or
appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, county, city or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of City
Commission.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to the meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included unless it is
a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday or a day on which the public office in
which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday or a day on which the public
office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and legally
closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days just
mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or notice shall mean the
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include such acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto, it
shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the end
or close of the writing. Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in
the English language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of City Commission in enacting
any ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that City
Commission would not have enacted the remaining parts without the
unconstitutional part, or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are
incomplete and incapable of being executed in accordance with the intent of
City Commission.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of City Commission.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of City Commission as long as it takes effect prior to the
effective date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
City Commission which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of City Commission as long as
the repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the
original amendment.
   (E)   No other action of City Commission repealing a repealer or an
amendment shall have the effect of reviving the original language of the
repealer or amendment as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to
any offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings.
   (B)   If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment is mitigated by any provision
of the new ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party affected,
be applied to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the City
Commission, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional
ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the
ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving such
purpose effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall
remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   (1)   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code
by ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein.
      (2)   Any chapter, section or division repealed by subsequent ordinances
may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent
ordinances, as printed or omitted, shall be prima facie evidence of such
subsequent ordinances until City Commission shall adopt a new code of
ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.37 should be used by the city to amend, add or repeal a chapter, section or
division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of the
codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
bearing the latest passage date shall prevail.
   (B)   If the conflicting provisions bear the same passage date, the conflict
shall be so construed as to be consistent with the meaning or legal effect of
the questions of the subject matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
word or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the
intention of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no
meaning can be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or
words was clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be
corrected, and the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will
conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same
effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as originally
published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Am. Ord. 25, passed
1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for- word the same as the statute. Example: (KRS
83A.090) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985). If a KRS
cite is set forth as a "statutory reference" following the text of the section,
this indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for further
information. Example:
   § 31.10 MAYOR.
      The executive authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised by
the Mayor.
   (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-1980)
   Statutory reference:
      Powers and duties of the Mayor, see KRS 83A.130
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   MAYOR-COMMISSION PLAN
         
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
         
32.   CITY COMMISSION
         
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
         
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
         
35.   TAXATION
         
36.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
         
37.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
         
38.   CODE OF ETHICS
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR-COMMISSION PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided in this chapter shall be known as the
"Commission Plan."
(KRS 83A.140(1))
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected officer who shall be called
Mayor and by elected legislative body members who shall be called City
Commissioners and which together shall be known as the City Commission and by
such other officers and employees as may be provided for by statute or city
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.140(2))
   (B)   The City Commission shall be composed of the Mayor and four
Commissioners.
(KRS 83A.030(2))
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
   
31.04   Bond
Elected Officers
   
31.20   Election procedure
   
31.21   Mayor; Mayor Pro Tem
   
31.22   Commissioners
Non-Elected City Officers
   
31.35   Establishment of non-elected city offices
   
31.36   City Clerk
Cross-reference:
   Code of Ethics, see
Chapter 38
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH.
   Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the discharge of duties
of his or her office, take the following oath: "I do solemnly swear (or affirm,
as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of this Commonwealth,
and the Constitution of the United States, and be faithful and true to the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue a citizen thereof, and that I
will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the office of           ,
according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or affirm) that, since the
adoption of the present Constitution, I being a citizen of this United States,
have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this State, nor out of it,
nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel with deadly weapons,
nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor aided or assisted any
person thus offending, so help me God," as established by § 228 of the Kentucky
Constitution.
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Commission shall by ordinance fix the compensation of every
elected city officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in
which the officer is elected. An elected officer's compensation shall not be
changed after his or her election or during his or her term of office.
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of the Mayor and Commissioners
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department of Local Government
computes by the second Friday in February of every year the annual increase or
decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using 1949 as the
base year in accordance with § 246 of the Constitution of Kentucky, which
provides that the Mayor and Commissioners shall be paid at a rate no greater
than $7,200 per annum.
      (2)   The Commission shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Department of Local Government.
   (B)   The legislative body shall fix the compensation of city employees and
non-elected city officers in accordance with a personnel and pay classification
plan, which shall be adopted by ordinance.
   (C)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
inability or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his or her
office, may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the
Commission exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his or her removal. No elected officer shall be removed without
having been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed,
has the right to appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall
be on the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated
before the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Non-elected officers. Non-elected city officers may be removed by the
Commission at will unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of non-elected officers, see KRS 83A.080(3)
§ 31.04 BOND.
   (A)   Official bonds shall, if required, meet the standards of KRS 62.060.
   (B)   All officers and employees of the city who handle public funds in the
execution of their duties shall give a good and sufficient bond to the city for
the faithful and honest performance of their duties, and as security for all
money coming into the officer's hands or under the officer's control. The
amount of the bond shall be established based on the amount of public funds the
officer handles at any point in time during the fiscal year and may be
satisfied by a blanket or umbrella bond covering all or a group of city
officers and employees. The cost of the bond shall be paid by the city.
   (C)   Elected officials who post bond as required by statute, and employees
of their offices covered by a blanket or umbrella bond, shall be deemed to have
complied with division (A) of this section.
(KRS 65.067)
ELECTED OFFICERS
§ 31.20 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   Election of city officers is governed by general election laws
as provided in KRS Chapters 116 through 121 unless the Commission prescribes by
ordinance that election of city officers shall be under nonpartisan city
election laws as provided in KRS Chapter 83A. Such ordinance shall become
effective not later than 23 days prior to the date prescribed by the election
law generally for filing notification and declaration forms with the County
Clerk in a year in which a regular election is to be held in which any city
office is to be filled.
      (2)   Immediately subsequent to publication of any ordinance prescribing
that election of city officers be under nonpartisan city election laws, a copy
of the ordinance shall be filed with the County Clerk of the county in which
the city is located.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) of this section by ordinance, except that no change
shall be made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and Commissioners may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E) and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
(Ord. 80-3, passed 10-14-1980)
Statutory reference:
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080(3), (4)
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
§ 31.21 MAYOR; MAYOR PRO TEM.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Mayor shall be a
resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her election.
His or her term of office shall begin on January 1 following his or her
election and shall be for four years and until his or her successor qualifies.
If a person is elected or appointed as Mayor in response to a vacancy and
serves less than four calendar years, then that period of service shall not be
considered, for purposes of re-election, a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, the Commission
shall fill the vacancy within 30 days. If for any reason, any vacancy in the
office of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor
shall promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall
serve for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(1), (2), (6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Commission may vote for himself or herself.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(b))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Commission. The resignation may be submitted
through electronic mail if it originates from the official's electronic mail
address and includes also the official's handwritten signature. The resignation
shall be effective at the next regular or special meeting of the city
legislative body occurring on or after the date specified in the written letter
of resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation
shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of
the legislative body occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the Office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Commission shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Commission shall elect from among its members an
individual to preside over meetings of the City Commission during any vacancy
in the office of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Commission and may
vote in all proceedings.
      (2)   All bonds, notes, contracts and written obligations of the city
authorized by ordinance or resolution shall be executed by the Mayor on behalf
of the city.
(KRS 83A.140(4))
   (E)   Mayor Pro Tem.
      (1)   The Commission shall designate one City Commissioner to serve as
Mayor Pro Tem. The Mayor Pro Tem shall act for the Mayor whenever the Mayor is
unable to attend to the duties of his or her office and he shall then possess
all rights, powers and duties of Mayor.
      (2)   If the disability of the Mayor to attend to his or her duties
continues for 60 consecutive days, the Office of Mayor may be declared vacant
by a majority vote of the Commission membership, and the provisions of division
(C) above shall apply.
(KRS 83A.140(4))
§ 31.22 COMMISSIONERS.
   For provisions concerning the City Commission, see
Chapter 32.
NON-ELECTED CITY OFFICERS
§ 31.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF NON-ELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All non-elected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office;
      (4)   Bond, if required; and
      (5)   Compensation, which may be specifically established or set by
reference to another ordinance in which the compensation is specifically
established.
   (B)   All non-elected city officers shall be appointed by the Commission.
   (C)   All non-elected officers may be removed by the Commission at will
unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance. Upon removal of a non-
elected officer at will, the Commission shall give the officer a written
statement setting forth the reason or reasons for the removal. However, this
requirement shall not be construed as limiting in any way the at-will dismissal
power of the Commission.
   (D)   The following are non-elected city offices:
      (1)   City Clerk. The City Clerk shall keep a true and complete record of
all proceedings of the legislative body and such other records as he or she may
be directed by the legislative body to keep and shall perform such duties as
may be required.
      (2)   City Treasurer. The City Treasurer shall receive and safely keep
all city funds coming into his or her hands, and for all such funds shall give
duplicate receipts, one of which shall be filed with the City Clerk. The
Treasurer shall pay out city funds only on warrants signed by the Clerk and
countersigned by the Mayor. The Treasurer shall make monthly reports to the
City Commission showing the state of the finances of the city and the amounts
received and spent during the month, which reports shall be filed, and the
Treasurer shall make an annual report at the close of the fiscal year with the
total amount of all receipts and expenditures of the city and the transactions
during the preceding year.
      (3)   Chief of Police. The Chief of Police for the city shall be
responsible for enforcement and maintenance of law and order within the
corporate boundaries of the city in accordance with policies and guidelines
established by the legislative body.
      (4)   City Attorney. A licensed attorney selected by the legislative body
shall be retained to serve as the City Attorney and serve at the pleasure of
the legislative body. The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor to city
officials and the City Commission and shall render advice on all legal
questions affecting the city, whenever requested to do so by any city official.
Upon request by the Commission, he or she shall reduce any such opinion in
writing.
      (5)   City Administrator. The Office of City Administrator is created and
the appointment shall be recommended by the Mayor with approval by majority of
the legislative body to serve at the pleasure of the Mayor and legislative
body. The City Administrator shall tend to the day to day city businesses as
directed by the legislative body and with the compensation for this position
and specific duties being outlined in a separate employment contact that is
approved by the City Commission.
(Ord. 82-1, passed 2-2-1982; Am. Ord. 2000-010, passed 9-5-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Non-elected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1),(2)
§ 31.36 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the Office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   The office of the City Clerk may, by ordinance, be combined with any
other non-elected city office by inclusion of the title and duties of such
office.
   (C)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk shall include, but are
not limited to the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the “official custodian” or
“custodian,” pursuant to KRS 61.870 through 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used;
      (4)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail or electronically
submit to the Department for Local Development a list containing current city
information including but not limited to the following:
         (a)   The correct name, telephone number, and electronic mail address
of the Mayor, legislative body members, and the correct name, telephone number,
and electronic mail address for the city’s appointed officials or employees who
are serving in the following roles or substantially similar roles as of January
1 of each year:
            1.   City Clerk;
            2.   City Treasurer or Chief Financial Officer;
            3.   City Manager or Administrator;
            4.   City Attorney;
            5.   Human Resources Director;
            6.   Police Chief;
            7.   Fire Chief;
            8.   Public Works Director;
            9.   Risk Manager;
            10.   Information Technology Manager;
            11.   Public Relations or Communications Officer; and
            12.   Planning and Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for city hall and
telephone number of the city hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
      (5)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk by statute or ordinance.
      (6)   Once the information required to be reported under division (C)(4)
is complied by the Department for Local Government, the Department shall
forward one electronic copy of the compiled information to the Legislative
Research Commission.
(KRS 83A.085)
   (D)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City
Commission from time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
   (E)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk unless such
person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond, if required, with corporate
surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and conditioned upon the
performance of the duties specified herein.
CHAPTER 32: CITY COMMISSION
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
   
32.04   Each Commissioner to superintend specific city departments
Rules of Procedure
   
32.20   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.21   Meetings
   
32.22   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.35   One subject; title
   
32.36   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.37   Form of amendment
   
32.38   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.39   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.40   Official city records
   
32.41   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.42   Publication requirements
   
32.43   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.44   Periodic review required
   
32.45   Municipal orders
   
32.46   Proved by City Clerk; received in evidence
   
32.47   Legislative immunity
Cross-reference:
   City Officials, see
Chapter 31
   City Organizations, see
Chapter 36
   Mayor-Commission Plan, see
Chapter 30
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Commissioner shall be elected at-large
by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Commissioner
shall be a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her
election. Terms of office begin on the first day of January following his or
her election and shall be for two years.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 18 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02.
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on the Commission occur in a way
that one or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30
days fill the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable
notice of his or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with
the remaining members in making further appointments until all vacancies are
filled. If vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor
shall appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute
a quorum. Remaining vacancies shall be filled as provided in this section.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Commission shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Commission. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the official's
electronic mail address and includes also the official's handwritten signature.
The resignation shall be effective at the next regular or special meeting of
the city legislative body occurring on or after the date specified in the
written letter of resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the
written resignation shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or
special meeting of the legislative body occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs on the City Commission which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Commission shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason, any vacancy in the
Commission is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   All legislative, executive and administrative authority of the city is
hereby vested in and exercised by the Commission. The Commission shall enforce
the Commission Plan, ordinances and orders of the city and all applicable
statutes.
      (1)   The Commission shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (2)   The Commission shall supervise all departments of city government
and the conduct of all city officers and employees under its jurisdiction and
may require each department to make such reports to it as it finds necessary.
      (3)   The Commission shall report to the public on the condition and
needs of the city government as provided by ordinance, but not less than
annually.
(KRS 83A.140(3))
   (B)   In carrying out its duty to supervise the departments of city
government and the conduct of all city officers and employees under its
jurisdiction, the Commission may require any city officer or employee to
prepare and submit to it sworn statements regarding the performance of his or
her official duties.
(KRS 83A.140(5))
   (C)   The Commission shall by ordinance establish all appointive offices and
the duties and responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and
regulations for the public health, safety and welfare.
(KRS 83A.140(8))
   (D)   The Commission shall promulgate procedures to insure orderly
administration of the functions of city government and compliance with statute,
ordinance or order.
(KRS 83A.140(8))
   (E)   The Commission shall by ordinance provide for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate such funds in a budget which
shall provide for the orderly management of the city's resources.
(KRS 83A.140(8))
§ 32.04 EACH COMMISSIONER TO SUPERINTEND SPECIFIC CITY DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   All administrative and service functions of the city shall be
classified under departments created by ordinance which shall prescribe the
functions of the department and the duties and responsibilities of the
department head and his employees.
   (B)   The Commission shall at its first regular meeting in each year
designate the Commission member to have superintendence over each department
established under this section; however, the Commission may delegate
responsibility for overall supervision of any or all departments to a City
Administrative Officer established pursuant to KRS 83A.090.
(KRS 83A.140(6))
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.20 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Commission and may vote in
all proceedings.
(KRS 83A.140(4))
Cross-reference:
   Vacancy in office of Mayor; Mayor Pro Tem, see §
31.21
§ 32.21 MEETINGS.
   A regular meeting of the City Commission shall be held on the first Monday
of each month at 7:00 p.m. eastern standard time and will constitute the first
monthly meeting, and the second regular monthly meeting will be held on the
third Tuesday of each month at 7:00 p.m. eastern standard time at the City Hall
of Simpsonville, KY or at such other time or place as the Mayor may designate
one month in advance at any preceding regular meeting. In the event any of the
regular dates fall on a holiday, then said meeting will be held the next day.
(Ord. 2015-009, passed 12-17-2015; Am. Ord. 2017-004, passed 5-18-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Meetings of Legislative Body, see KRS 83A.140(7)
§ 32.22 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Commission
constitutes a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take
action.
(KRS 83A.060(6))
ORDINANCES
§ 32.35 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
shall clearly state the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1))
§ 32.36 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled "Be it ordained by the City of Simpsonville."
(KRS 83A.060(2))
§ 32.37 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060(3))
§ 32.38 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance shall
be enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Commission may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.42 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(4), (7))
§ 32.39 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Commission may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide or
nationally recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title, source
and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without setting
them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is made a
part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5))
§ 32.40 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Commission is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Commission shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Commission has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.36(C) and
32.41, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk and the presiding officer shall sign the official record
of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.41 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted by the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.42 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.38(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
legislative body. If the legislative body elects to publish an ordinance in
summary, the summary shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to
practice law in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads in
lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9))
§ 32.43 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10))
§ 32.44 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent and
invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11))
§ 32.45 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   The Commission may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall
be in writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be
amended only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted
shall be maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions and
other agencies over which the Commission has control.
(KRS 83A.060(12), (13))
§ 32.46 PROVED BY CITY CLERK; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of ordinances by
authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in evidence by any
state court without further proof of such ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14))
§ 32.47 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, City Commissioners shall be entitled to the
same immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15))
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
Improvements
   
33.20   Definitions
   
33.21   Financing of improvements
   
33.22   Apportionment of cost
   
33.23   Comprehensive report required
   
33.24   Public hearing required
   
33.25   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.26   Affected owner may contest
   
33.27   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.28   Effect of additional property or change in financing
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply.
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an encumbrance
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010)
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. No money shall
be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund, except in accordance
with a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Monies held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Commission.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in such form and detail as is
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to the Commission not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal
year it covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the
governmental goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain
important features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the
reasons for stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs
and appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   The Commission may adopt the budget ordinance making
appropriations for the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and
proper, whether greater or less than the sums recommended in the budget
proposal. The budget ordinance may take any form that the Commission finds most
efficient in enabling it to make the necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of § 157
of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated, for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   The Commission may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance's adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Commission. Such responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to the Commission of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. Such reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer or employee of any city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements and obligations, express or implied, beyond such existing
appropriations are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond, certificate
or warrant for the payment of money by the city in any way to any extent,
beyond the balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   Each city shall, after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund
of the city to be audited by the Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified
public accountant. The audit shall be completed by March 1 immediately
following the fiscal year being audited. The city shall forward an electronic
copy of the audit report to the Department for Local Government for information
purposes by no later than April 1 immediately following the fiscal year being
audited.
   (B)   If a city is required by another provision of law to audit its funds
more frequently or more stringently than is required by this section, the city
shall also comply with the provisions of that law.
   (C)   The Department for Local Government shall, upon request, make
available electronic copies of the audit reports and financial statements
received by it under division (A) of this section to the Legislative Research
Commission to be used for the purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975 or to the Auditor
of Public Accounts.
   (D)   Each city required by this section to conduct an annual or biennial
audit shall enter into a written contract with the selected auditor. The
contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall
include but not be limited to requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements,
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual or biennial city audit
report an examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to
the city under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification
with the annual or biennial audit report that the funds were expended for the
purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which include tests of the accounting
records and auditing procedures considered necessary in the circumstances.
Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal funds, appropriate
state or Federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor's opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit;
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the city legislative body at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant's work papers upon request.
   (E)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to a
city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (F)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the city legislative body, publish an advertisement in accordance with KRS
Chapter 424 containing:
      (1)   The auditor's opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules-Major Funds,” which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at city hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from city hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed twenty-five cents ($0.25) per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220, when a financial statement is required by KRS
424.220, are available to the public at no cost at the business address of the
officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (G)   Any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city may
bring an action in the Circuit Court to enforce the provisions of this section.
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any officer who fails to comply with
any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be subject to a
forfeiture of not less than $50 nor more than $500, in the discretion of the
court, which may be recovered only once in a civil action brought by any
resident of the city or owner of real property within the city. The costs of
all proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident or
property owner bringing the action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful
party.
   (H)   In the event of extenuating circumstances that prevent a city from
completing and submitting a required audit or financial statement in compliance
with the applicable deadlines in division (A) of this section, the city may
submit a written request for an extension of time to the Department for Local
Government on a form prescribed by the Department for Local Government. The
Department for Local Government shall approve the request if it is submitted on
or before the applicable deadline and, in the judgment of the Department for
Local Government, the request is warranted by extenuating circumstances beyond
the control of the city. Extensions granted under this subsection shall not
exceed nine months from the original due date of the audit or financial
statement. If the Department for Local Government approves an extension for a
city and the city fails to complete and submit the required audit or financial
statement in compliance with that extended deadline, then the provisions of
division (I) of this section shall apply.
   (I)   If a city fails to complete an audit or financial statement and submit
it to the Department for Local Government as required in division (A) and (H)
of this section, the Department for Local Government shall notify the Finance
and Administration Cabinet that the city has failed to comply with the audit
requirements of this section, and that any funds in the possession of any
agency, entity, or branch of state government shall be withheld from the city
until further notice. The Department for Local Government shall immediately
notify the Finance and Administration Cabinet when the city complies with the
requirements of division (A) and (H) of this section for all prior fiscal years
it has failed to comply with the audit requirements of this section, and the
Finance and Administration Cabinet shall direct the reinstatement of payments
to the city, including any funds that were withheld due to the noncompliance.
   (J)   Within a reasonable time after the completion of a special audit or
examination conducted pursuant to KRS 43.050, the Auditor shall bill the city
for the actual expense of the audit or examination conducted. The actual
expense shall include the hours of work performed on the audit or examination
as well as reasonable associated costs, including but not limited to travel
costs. The bill submitted to the city shall include a statement of the hourly
rate, total hours, and total costs for the entire audit or examination.
(KRS 91A.040)
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Development to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Commission shall designate as the city's official depositories one
or more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies or trust companies
within the Commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance collateralized in
accordance with 12 U.S.C. sec. 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any
obligations, including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Commission which
states the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the
payment and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization
shall be numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.20 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all such properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by the Commission of the special benefit
received by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis,
front foot basis and square foot basis or any combination  thereof, and may
include consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different
classes of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received,
and other factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to such front footage of all such properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by the facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefitted by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all such property.
(KRS 91A.210)
§ 33.21 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement, in whole or in part, through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes.
(KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
Statutory reference:
   Improvements; alternate methods, see KRS Ch. 107
§ 33.22 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious or charitable organization. The
Commission may assess such property in the same manner as for privately-owned
property or it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230)
§ 33.23 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments or financing.
(KRS 91A.240)
§ 33.24 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   (A)   After preparation of the report required by §
33.23, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424,
and mailed to each affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt
requested, and shall include:
      (1)   The nature of the improvement;
      (2)   Description of area of the improvement;
      (3)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in
whole or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
      (4)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
      (5)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250)
§ 33.25 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.23 and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage the city shall
publish such ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by certified
mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to proceed with
the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to
the property owner and the ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the
total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260)
§ 33.26 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.25, any affected property 9owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his or her property in the improvement, or the amount of his
or her assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by
the special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution are final and binding with respect to such
property owners, except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270)
§ 33.27 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.26, or after favorable final judgment in any such action, whichever comes
later, the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the
action, including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment
thereon and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The
first installment may be apportioned so that the other payments will coincide
with payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Commission shall
exempt any benefitted property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280)
§ 33.28 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.23 through
33.27 applies if additional property is included in the improvement or if
change is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property
may be included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof
without compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost
apportioned to any other property, or any other change may be made without such
compliance if all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.15   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.16   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.17   Public records not immediately available
   
34.18   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.19   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.20   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.21   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.22   Format of copies
   
34.23   Fees for copies
   
34.24   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
34.25   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
34.26   Public records protected from disclosure
   
34.27   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   BOOKING PHOTOGRAPH AND PHOTOGRAPHIC RECORD OF INMATE. A photograph or image
of an individual generated by law enforcement for identification purposes when
the individual is booked into a detention facility as defined in KRS 520.010 or
photograph and image of an inmate taken pursuant to KRS 196.099.
   CITY. The city government of the city.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its new
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   CUSTODIAN. The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records. The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of
most of the public records of the city is the City Clerk.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor or other automated device.
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes and cards.
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN. The chief administrative officer or any other officer or
employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care and
keeping of public records, regardless of whether such records are in his actual
personal custody and control. The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall be the
Mayor.
   PERSON. A human being who makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. The city, including its legislative body and every officer,
department and division of the city; every entity created by authority of the
city; any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council or agency created and controlled by the city; and
any interagency body in which the city participates.
   PUBLIC RECORDS. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of
or retained by the public agency. PUBLIC RECORDS shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for the public agency that are not related to
functions, activities, programs or operations funded by the public agency nor
any records that may be excluded by §
34.26.
   REQUEST. An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the agency.
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications or any other mechanism for
controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the public
agency's computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.15 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of the city
shall make a request for inspection at the office of the City Clerk during
regular office hours, except during legal holidays. The official custodian, or
the custodian acting under the authority of the official custodian, may require
a request to inspect public records to be in writing, signed by the applicant
and with the applicant's name printed legibly on the application. A written
request to inspect public records may be presented by hand delivery, mail or
via facsimile, if one is available.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person's request is in compliance
with this chapter and the open records law, and the requested public records
are immediately available, the custodian shall deliver the records for
inspection. A person may inspect public records at the designated office of the
city during the regular office hours, or in appropriate cases, by receiving
copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the city,
suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk or
in another office of the city as determined by the official custodian or
custodian for the inspection. No person shall remove original copies of public
records from the offices of the city without the written permission of the
official custodian of the record. When public records are inspected at the city
offices, the person inspecting the records shall have the right to make
abstracts and memoranda of the public records and to obtain copies of all
written public records. When copies are requested, the custodian may require
advance payment of the prescribed fee.
   (D)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee.
§ 34.16 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk does not have custody or control of the public record or
records requested, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant and shall furnish
the name and location of the official custodian of the agency's public records.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 34.17 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and legal
holidays) from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time and earliest date on which
the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5))
§ 34.18 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
§ 34.19 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and
legal holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
five-day period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in
part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under his or her authority and shall constitute
final agency action.
(KRS 61.880)
§ 34.20 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
§ 34.21 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or her or
in which he or she is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate
identification, subject to the provisions of §
34.26 of these rules and regulations.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 34.22 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
34.26. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where appropriate.
If the applicant desires copies of public records other than written records,
the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or permit the
applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall ensure that
the duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Non-exempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than 8.5 inches by 11 inches in at least one color on white paper, or for
electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard Code for
Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and the format conforms
to the requestor's requirements, the public record may be provided in this
alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a non-standardized request.
(KRS 61.874(1) through (3))
§ 34.23 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   The public agency may prescribe a reasonable fee for making copies of
nonexempt public records requested for use for non-commercial purposes which
shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of the
media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but not
including the cost of staff required. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a non-standardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the
request of an individual or a group, the public agency may at its discretion
provide the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual
costs incurred.
   (B)   (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of non-exempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) of this section may be
based on one or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records; and/or
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(3), (4))
Cross-reference:
   Fees for online access to public records, see §
34.25
§ 34.24 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
34.23;
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Non-commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.25 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
34.23.
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 34.26 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except as provided in KRS
61.878(1) that no court shall authorize the inspection by any party of any
materials pertaining to civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the
Rules of Civil Procedure governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy;
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research; (This exemption shall not, however, apply
to records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other
statute.)
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to the agency, or required
by an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records;
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements and tax credits as described in KRS
Chapter 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (b)
above, shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
directed by statute.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(2) above.
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods.
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision.
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again.
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action; however, records or information compiled
and maintained by county attorneys or Commonwealth’s attorneys pertaining to
criminal investigations or criminal litigation shall be exempted from these
provisions and shall remain exempted after enforcement action, including
litigation, is completed or a decision is made to take no action. The
exemptions provided by this subdivision shall not be used by the custodian of
the records to delay or impede the exercise of rights granted by this chapter.
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency.
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended.
      (11)   All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation or state law.
      (12)   Public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of
Revenue in tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure
under KRS 131.190;
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Counterterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include but not be limited to information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage and gas systems.
            7.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division: detailed drawings, schematics,
maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and operating,
utility or security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied, leased
or maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, TERRORIST ACT means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (a)6.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division, that public agency
shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS
61.880(1), to the executive director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law.
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chs. 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited.
      (16)   Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Ch. 31.
      (17)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
government function.
      (18)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of:
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party;
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for a person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos.
      (19)   Records confidentially maintained by a law enforcement agency in
accordance with a wellness program, including an early intervention system, as
described in KRS 15.409.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person. In addition, if any public record contains material which
is not excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and
make the non-excepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
34.18.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (D)   When material is made available pursuant to a request under division
(A)(18) of this section, the public agency shall not be required to make a copy
of the recording except as provided in KRS 61.169, and the requesting parties
shall not be limited in the number of times they may view the material.
   (E)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge or
impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him or her. Such records
shall include, but not be limited to work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores and preliminary and other
supporting documentation. A city employee, applicant or eligible shall not have
the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to
ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by any agency.
(KRS 61.878)
§ 34.27 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the open
records law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
Section
   
35.01   County assessment adopted
   
35.02   Due date; payment
   
35.03   Delinquency
   
35.04   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles
   
35.05   Ad valorem taxes on real property
   
35.06   Disposition of funds
   
35.07   Fee for researching tax bills
§ 35.01 COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted in KRS 132.285, the city hereby
adopts the Shelby County assessment for all real and personal property situated
within the city as the basis of all ad valorem tax levies ordered or approved
by the City Commission.
   (B)   The assessment as finally determined for county tax purposes shall
serve as the basis for all city levies for the fiscal year commencing after the
assessment date.
§ 35.02 DUE DATE; PAYMENT.
   All taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall become due
November 30.
§ 35.03 DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   All city taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall
become delinquent on December 1 following their due dates.
   (B)   Any taxes not paid by the date when they become delinquent shall be
subject to a penalty of 10% on the taxes due and unpaid. The delinquent
taxpayer shall also pay all costs and expenses incidental to any action taken
by the city for collection of the delinquent tax bill.
   (C)   Delinquent taxes shall be collectable under the provisions of the
state law relating to the collection of delinquent taxes by cities of the fifth
class.
§ 35.04 AD VALOREM TAXES ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   All ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall be collected by the
Shelby County Clerk in accordance with KRS 134.800.
   (B)   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall become due and delinquent as
set forth in KRS 134.810 and any such taxes not paid by the date when they
become delinquent shall be subject to the penalty and interest specified in KRS
134.810.
§ 35.05 AD VALOREM TAXES ON REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   An ad valorem tax of $0.091 per $100 valuation is hereby levied upon
all taxable real property within the city for the current calendar year, and
each succeeding year thereafter until ordained otherwise.
   (B)   All taxable real property within the city shall be assessed the same
as the current year’s annual county assessment as compiled by the County
Property Valuation Administrator (PVA), which assessments by the PVA are hereby
adopted by the city for the current year.
   (C)   The revenue from this levy shall be allocated to the General Fund of
the city and used for purposes of support of the government of the city.
   (D)   The tax levied by this section shall be billed by the City Treasurer,
or such other person as the City Treasurer may duly designate, to each taxpayer
and shall be due and payable on or before November 30, 2023.
   (E)   A penalty of 20% shall be added for each delinquent year this tax is
past due and, in addition, 1% interest to be added and compounded monthly until
the total tax due, with interest and penalty, has been paid.
(Ord. 2003-007, passed 9-4-2003; Am. Ord. 2004-004, passed 9-7-2004; Am. Ord.
2005-008, passed 10- 11-2005; Am. Ord. 2006-008, passed 9-20-2006; Am. Ord.
2007-008, passed 9-20-2007; Am. Ord. 2008- 014, passed 8-27-2008; Am. Ord.
2009-012, passed 9-4-2009; Am. Ord. 2010-008, passed 9-9-2010; Am. Ord. 2011-
005, passed 1-1-2011; Am. Ord. 2012-011, passed 9-14-2012; Am. Ord. 2013-011,
passed 8- 21-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-012, passed 8-20-2014; Am. Ord. 2015-004,
passed 8-20-2015; Am. Ord. 2016-009, passed 8-18-2016; Am. Ord. 2017-006,
passed 8-15-2017; Am. Ord. 2018-006, passed 9-4-2018; Am. Ord. 2019-003, passed
9-3-2019; Am. Ord. 2020-011, passed 9-22-2020; Am. Ord. 2021-004, passed 9-7-
2021; Am. Ord. 2022-005, passed 8-17-2022; Am. Ord. 2023=006, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 35.06 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All monies collected from the taxes levied in this chapter shall be paid
into the General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Commission.
§ 35.07 FEE FOR RESEARCHING TAX BILLS.
   (A)   Any request directed to the City Clerk/Treasurer or his or her staff
for researching or providing information about tax bills which are not
delinquent shall be assessed an administrative fee of $10 per parcel; however,
if the request is made directly from the property owner, no fee will be
charged. This fee shall be paid in advance by the requester. The City Clerk/
Treasurer will not provide information about delinquent tax bills if those
bills have been endorsed for collection to the City Attorney. An additional $2
shall be charged for each duplicate bill.
   (B)   Any request directed to the City Attorney or his or her staff for
researching or providing information about delinquent tax bills which have been
endorsed by the City Clerk/Treasurer for collection shall be assessed an
administrative fee of $50 per parcel. This fee shall be paid in advance by the
requester, unless such a request is made by a party to a lawsuit to collect the
delinquent tax. If such a request is made by way of a discovery request in
accordance with the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure, by a party to a lawsuit
to collect the delinquent tax, the documentation evidencing the tax due will be
made available for inspection without charge.
(Ord. 2013-006, passed 6-4-2013)
CHAPTER 36: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
36.01   Department of Finance
   
36.02   Department of Public Safety and Health
   
36.03   Department of Sanitation
   
36.04   Department of Streets and Highways
   
36.05   Parks and Recreation Board
   
36.06   Joint Human Rights Commission
   
36.07   Shelby County Tourism and Convention Commission; transient room tax
§ 36.01 DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE.
   This Department shall be comprised of a Commissioner, who, together with the
City Treasurer, shall supervise matters relating to the budget, taxation, ad
valorem property assessments, fiscal accounting and audit.
(Ord. 82-1, passed 2-2-1982)
§ 36.02 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY AND HEALTH.
   This Department shall be comprised of a Commissioner, who, together with the
Chief of Police, shall supervise matters relating to law enforcement, policing,
pollution, refuge, solid waste and weed control, nuisances and otter matters
affecting public safety and health.
(Ord. 82-1, passed 2-2-1982)
§ 36.03 DEPARTMENT OF SANITATION.
   This Department shall be comprised of a Commissioner, who shall supervise
the operation of the municipal sewage system.
(Ord. 82-1, passed 2-2-1982)
§ 36.04 DEPARTMENT OF STREETS AND HIGHWAYS.
   This Department shall be comprised of a Commissioner who shall supervise the
maintenance of streets, highways, lighting, signs and other matters relating to
the city streets and public way.
(Ord. 82-1, passed 2-2-1982)
§ 36.05 PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD.
   (A)   A city recreational board, to be called "The Simpsonville Parks and
Recreation Board," is hereby created and established to initiate, maintain and
conduct a park, playground, community center and recreational system, to have
all powers and duties as hereinafter provided, as well as prescribed and/or
permitted under KRS Chapter 97.
   (B)   These provisions shall govern as follows.
      (1)   The Board shall consist of seven members who shall be residents of
the City of Simpsonville, except that up to two of those members can reside
outside the city, one of which will be a sitting City Commissioner, to be
appointed by the Mayor with approval of the City Commission. The remaining City
Commissioners, including the Mayor, shall be ex officio members of the Board,
but without voting rights. A quorum for any meeting shall be at least four
members with the regular business being conducted by majority of those present.
      (2)   The following are qualifications for membership:
         (a)   At least 25 years of age;
         (b)   Reside in the city; or be full time employed in the city; or own
real property in the city; and
         (c)   Not more than one member to be principally engaged in business
as a member or employee of the same person, firm or corporation.
      (3)   Members are to be appointed for a term of four years; terms to be
staggered. Members may be reappointed for consecutive terms of four years.
      (4)   Vacancies on the Board are to be filled by appointment for the
unexpired term by the Mayor with the approval of the City Commission.
      (5)   At the first meeting of the Board in June 2007, and annually in the
month of June thereafter, the members of the Board shall select from its
membership: one member to serve as Chairperson; one member to serve as Vice-
Chairperson; one member to serve as Secretary; and one member to serve as
Treasurer. All positions selected above shall begin their terms of service at
the beginning of the fiscal year (July 1) and be in effect for one fiscal year.
      (6)   The Board shall hold regular meetings at least once monthly. The
Chairperson or Vice- Chairperson may call special meetings. All meetings shall
be held in compliance with the Kentucky Open Meetings laws.
      (7)   The Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson, in his or her absence, shall
preside at meetings. The Secretary shall keep written minutes of all meetings.
In the absence of the Secretary, the Chair shall designate a member to keep the
minutes.
      (8)   The Treasurer shall execute a bond conditioned on the faithful
performance of his or her duties sufficient in amount to cover the total funds
expected to come into hand from all sources.
      (9)   The system is to be funded and financed by the city in addition to
fees and monies generated by the activities sponsored by the system. The city
may appropriate money out of the general fund of the city for the purpose of
expanding, equipping, maintaining and operating the park, playground, community
or recreation center and system.
      (10)   The Board shall submit a budget of proposed receipts and
expenditures to the City Commission for its approval before April 1 of each
year in order that the approved appropriation from the city may be included in
the budget of the city; the fiscal year of the Board shall be from July 1 to
June 30 of each year.
      (11)   The Board may levy and collect fees for the use of or admission to
the projects or system or activities conducted under its auspices and may
expend or invest the income from the fees for the purposes set forth in this
section. All such funds shall be under the direct control of the Board and
shall be maintained in appropriate bank accounts and deposited and expended
from the account or accounts.
      (12)   The Board may appoint various committees under its jurisdiction
and shall provide rules and regulations for the governance of the committees.
The members of the committees need not be residents of the city. The committees
and members of such committees shall be responsible to the Board and shall
render the reports to the Board as required by the Board.
      (13)   The Board may provide for, maintain and conduct the parks,
playgrounds, community and recreational center and buildings thereon and expend
necessary funds as available for such purposes.
      (14)   The Board may nominate for employment qualified personnel as
superintendents, supervisors or other employees as it deems necessary and
proper, subject however, to approval of such employment and salary by the City
Commission. Any salary increase in excess of 5% annually shall be submitted to
the City Commission for approval.
      (15)   Three members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business, but the affirmative vote of three members shall be
necessary for the adoption of any motion, resolution, order or the approval of
any matter under consideration.
      (16)   The accounts of the Board and the system and the records of the
Board, shall be subject to audit by a certified public accountant once each
year, together with and by the same accounting firm as the City of Simpsonville
annual audit.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 1-7-1994; Am. Ord. 2007-002, passed 5-16-2007; Am. Ord.
2007-004, passed 7-3-2007; Am. Ord. 2010-006, passed 5-19-2010)
§ 36.06 JOINT HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby created a Simpsonville, Shelbyville and
Shelby County Commission on Human Rights.
   (B)   Purpose. The Commission on Human Rights shall endeavor to promote and
secure mutual understanding and respect among all economic, social, religious,
ethnic, and racial groups in the cities, and county and shall act as
conciliator in controversies, involving inter-group and interracial relations.
The Commission shall cooperate with federal, state, county and other city
agencies in an effort to develop harmonious inter-group and interracial
relations and shall endeavor to enlist the support of civic, religious, labor,
industrial, and commercial groups and civic leaders dedicated to the
improvement of inter-group and interracial relations and the elimination of
discriminatory practices.
   (C)   Officers. The Commission on Human Rights shall elect from its
membership a Chairman, a Secretary, a Treasurer and such other officers as it
shall deem necessary. The Chairman of the Commission shall appoint such
committees as the rules of the Commission shall provide and such other special
committees from time to time as the Commission may deem it necessary in order
to carry out the purposes of this section. The Chair and all officers shall be
Commission members.
   (D)   Members; qualifications; compensation.
      (1)   The Commission on Human Rights shall consist of 11 members who
shall be persons who are nearly as possible representative of several social,
economic, religious, cultural, ethnic, and racial groups which comprise the
population of Simpsonville, Shelbyville, and Shelby County.
      (2)   The Mayor of the City of Simpsonville shall appoint two members who
shall be residents of the city. Of the first members appointed by the Mayor,
one shall be appointed for one year and one shall be appointed for two years.
After the first appointments, all appointments shall be for a term of three
years.
      (3)   The Mayor of the City of Shelbyville shall appoint four members who
shall be residents of the city. Of the first four members appointed by the
Mayor, one shall serve for a term of one year, one shall serve for two years,
one shall serve for three years and one shall serve for four years. After the
first appointments, all appointments shall be for a term of three years.
      (4)   The County Judge-Executive shall appoint five members who shall be
residents of Shelby County, Kentucky. Of the first appointments, one shall
serve for a term of one year, two shall serve for a term of two years and two
shall serve for a term of three years. After the first appointments, all
appointments shall be for a term of three years.
      (5)   All of the aforesaid appointments shall be done with the approval
of the respective legislative bodies.
      (6)   In the event of a vacancy, the Mayor or County Judge-Executive of
the respective legislative body shall appoint a member to complete the
unexpired term with the approval of the respective legislative body.
      (7)   No elected or appointed official of Simpsonville, Shelbyville, or
Shelby County, Kentucky, may be a member of the Commission.
      (8)   Members shall serve without compensation.
   (E)   Meetings; rules of procedure.
      (1)   The Commission on Human Rights shall meet once each month and as
often as it deems necessary.
      (2)   The Commission shall have the power to adopt rules to govern its
proceedings.
   (F)   Quorum. A quorum shall consist of a majority of the members appointed
to the Commission.
   (G)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Commission on Human Rights may recommend to the legislative
bodies such legislation as may be considered necessary to accomplish the
purposes of this section.
      (2)   The Commission shall submit an annual report regarding its
activities and financial status, of each year, to the legislative bodies.
      (3)   The Commission, on behalf of the cities and county, may accept
grants and donations from foundations and others for the purpose of carrying
out its functions.
      (4)   The Commission may receive inquiries consistent with the Mission
Statement.
      (5)   The Commission shall have the following powers in addition to those
otherwise enumerated in this section:
         (a)   Receive inquiries and seek to conciliate, and hold meetings on
alleged discrimination.
         (b)   Certify the results to the legislative body and the Kentucky
Human Rights Commission for action in accordance with appropriate law.
   (H)   Expenditures. All expenditures shall be authorized by the Commission,
and they shall make a semi-annual financial report. Copies of such semi-annual
financial report shall be sent to the Mayors, the County Judge-Executive, and
the legislative bodies.
   (I)   Office space. The Mayors and County Judge-Executive are authorized to
allocate adequate office space and to provide the necessary facilities for the
Commission if the office space and facilities are available and approval is
obtained by the local governing body that has authority over those facilities.
(Ord. 84-1, passed 2-7-1984; Am. Ord. 2009-008, passed 8-4-2009)
§ 36.07 SHELBY COUNTY TOURISM AND CONVENTION COMMISSION; TRANSIENT ROOM TAX.
   (A)   Adoption of agreement. The interlocal cooperation agreement attached
as “Attachment A” to Ord. 2019-001, which re-establishes a joint Shelbyville,
Simpsonville and Shelby County Tourism and Convention Commission and levies a
transient room tax, is hereby adopted.
   (B)   Levy and collection of transient room tax.
      (1)   There is hereby levied a transient room tax in the City of
Simpsonville in the amount of 3% of the rent for every occupancy of a suite,
room, rooms, cabins, lodgings, campsites, or other accommodations charged by
all persons, companies, corporations, or other like or similar persons, groups,
or organizations doing business as a motor court, motel, hotel, inn, tourist
camp, tourist cabin, campground, recreational vehicle park, or like or similar
accommodations or places in which accommodations are regularly furnished to
transients for consideration or by persons, companies, corporations, or other
like or similar persons, groups, or organizations that facilitate the rental of
the accommodations by brokering, coordinating, or in any other way arranging
for the rental of the accommodations. In addition, there will be levied a
special transient room tax of 1% for the purpose of covering the operating
expenses of a local convention center that is in operation.
      (2)   Transient room taxes shall not apply to the rental or leasing of an
room, lodging, campsite, apartment, or other similar accommodation or place
supplied by an individual or business to a person or persons for a continuous
period of 30 days or more.
      (3)   All monies collected pursuant to this section shall be remitted to
the Shelby County Treasurer no later than 30 days following the last day of the
month in which the transient room taxes have been charged. All monies to be
collected pursuant to this section that are not remitted to the Shelby County
Treasurer as required herein shall bear interest at the rate of 12% per annum
on the whole or any part left unpaid, which amount shall be added to the
principal amount due when paid. In the event that any monies to be collected
pursuant to this section ordinance are not remitted to the Shelby County
Treasurer as required herein within 60 days of coming due, enforcement and
collection may be sought through the Shelby County Attorney's Office.
      (4)   Any person, owner, corporate officer, director, member, partner or
any other individual or entity having an ownership interest in any facility or
establishment subject to this section is deemed responsible for ensuring that
all taxes due and owing pursuant to this section are paid in a timely manner.
Sixty days or more delinquency on the part of any facility or establishment
charged with collecting and paying the transient room tax shall be prima facie
evidence of a willful intent not to pay same. Anyone, or any facility or
establishment, in violation of non-payment per this division (4) shall in
addition to being required to pay all taxes and penalties due hereunder, be
fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 and/or imprisoned in the county
jail for up to 12 months.
(Ord. 2013-014, passed 12-4-2012; Am. Ord. 2019-001, passed 4-16-2019; Am. Ord.
2023-001, passed 3-6-2023)
CHAPTER 37: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
37.01   Personnel Policy Manual
§ 37.01 PERSONNEL POLICY MANUAL.
   The authorized classes of Employee and Compensation Ranges attached to
Ordinance 2023-004 as Exhibit A shall become effective as Section 6.16 and
placed in the Revised Personnel Policy Guidelines replacing the previously
approved ordinance and attachment.
(Ord. 2015-014, passed 1-5-2015; Am. Ord. 2019-005, passed 9-3-2019; Am. Ord.
2023-004, passed 7-18-2023)
CHAPTER 38: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
38.01   Title
   
38.02   Findings
   
38.03   Purpose and authority
   
38.04   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
38.10   Conflicts of interest in general
   
38.11   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
38.12   Incompatible offices
   
38.13   Withdrawal from participation
   
38.14   Receipt of gifts
   
38.15   Use of city property, equipment and personnel
   
38.16   Nepotism prohibited
   
38.17   Representation of interests before city government
   
38.18   Misuse of confidential information
   
38.19   Political solicitation
   
38.20   Patronage
   
38.21   Outside employment
   
38.22   Post-employment restriction
   
38.23   Fees and honoraria
   
38.24   Endorsements
   
38.25   Complicity with or knowledge of others’ violations
   
38.26   Falsely impugning reputation
   
38.27   Meeting attendance
   
38.28   Social media
   
38.29   Email
Financial Disclosure
   
38.40   Who must file
   
38.41   When to file statements and amended statements
   
38.42   Form of the statement of financial interests
   
38.43   Control and maintenance of the statements of financial interests
   
38.44   Contents of the financial interests statement
   
38.45   Noncompliance with filing requirement
Enforcement
   
38.60   Ethics Board created
   
38.61   Facilities and staff
   
38.62   Annual meeting
   
38.63   Power and duties of the Ethics Board
   
38.64   Training and education
   
38.65   Annual reports and annual review of Ethics Code
   
38.66   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
38.67   Notice of hearings
   
38.68   Hearing procedure
   
38.69   Appeals
   
38.70   Limitation of actions
   
38.71   Advisory opinions
   
38.72   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
 
   
38.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   City Officials, see
Chapter 31
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 38.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Simpsonville,
Kentucky Code of Ethics.”
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 38.02 FINDINGS.
   The legislative body of the city finds and declares that:
   (A)   Public office and employment of the city are public trusts;
   (B)   The vitality and stability of the government of this city depends upon
the public’s confidence in the integrity of its elected and appointed officers
and employees. Whenever the public perceives a conflict between the private
interests and public duties of a city officer or employee, that confidence is
imperiled;
   (C)   The government of this city has a duty to provide its citizens with
standards by which they may determine whether public duties are being
faithfully performed, and to make its officers and employees aware of the
standards which the citizenry rightfully expects them to comply with while
conducting their public duties.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 38.03 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and the city shall be clearly established, uniform in their application, and
enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees of the city with advice
and information concerning potential conflicts of interest which might arise in
the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS 65.003 as enacted by the 1994 Kentucky General Assembly and any amendments
made subsequent to that date.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to the requirements of KRS 65.003.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 38.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation, or any legal entity through which business is conducted for
profit.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city office.
An individual is a CANDIDATE when the individual files a notification and
declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or the Secretary of
State, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration
of intent to be a write-in candidate with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State.
   CITY. The City of Simpsonville, Kentucky.
   CITY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, non-stock corporation, or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by this city.
   CITY BUSINESS. Any discussion of specific city issues that go beyond general
information.
   CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. Information obtained in the course of holding
public office or employment, or as a contractor to the city, which is not
available to members of the public and which the officer or employee is not
authorized to disclose, except to designated individuals or bodies, including
written and non-written information. When such information is also available
through channels open to the public, officers and employees are not prohibited
from disclosing the availability of those channels.
   CONSULTANT. An independent contractor or professional person or entity
engaged by the city or advising a city officer and in a position to influence a
city decision or action or have access to confidential information.
   CUSTOMER or CLIENT.
      (1)   Any person or entity to which a person or entity has supplied goods
or services during the previous 24 months, having a total value greater than
$1,000; or
      (2)   Any person or entity to which an officer or employee’s outside
employer or business has supplied goods or services during the previous 24
months, having a total value greater than $1,000, but only if the officer or
employee knows or has reason to know the outside employer or business supplied
the goods or services.
   DOMESTIC PARTNER. An adult, unrelated by blood, with which an unmarried or
separated officer or employee has an exclusive committed relationship,
maintains a mutual residence, and shares basic living expenses.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether full-time, part-time, seasonal, or temporary,
and whether paid or unpaid, who is employed or provides service to the city.
The term EMPLOYEE shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of
their EMPLOYEES.
   ETHICS BOARD or BOARD. The City of Simpsonville Ethics Board which is
created and vested by this chapter with the responsibility of enforcing the
requirements of the city’s Code of Ethics.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, domestic partner, parent, stepparent, child,
stepchild, brother, stepbrother, sister, stepsister, mother-in-law, father-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent or grandchild.
   FINANCIAL BENEFIT. Includes any money, service, license, permit, contract,
authorization, loan, discount, travel, entertainment, hospitality, gratuity, or
any promise of any of these, or anything else of value. This term does not
include campaign contributions authorized by law.
   FINANCIAL INTEREST. A relationship to something such that a direct or
indirect financial benefit has been, will be, or might be received as a result
of it.
   HOUSEHOLD. Includes anyone whose primary residence is in the officer or
employee’s home, including nonrelatives who are not rent payers or staff.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, domestic partner, a child or stepchild
who is not emancipated and who resides in the officer’s or employee’s
household, or a person claimed by the officer or employee, or the officer’s or
employee’s spouse or domestic partner, as a dependent for tax purposes.
   OFFICER. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   Mayor;
      (2)   Commission member;
      (3)   City Clerk;
      (4)   City Administrator;
      (5)   Police Chief;
      (6)   Any other person that occupies a non-elected office created
pursuant to KRS 83A.080; or
      (7)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency by the city.
   OFFICIAL ACT. Any legislative, administrative, appointive or discretionary
act of any public official or employee of the city or any agency, board,
committee or commission thereof.
   PERSONAL BENEFIT. Includes benefits other than those that are directly
financially advantageous. These include financial benefits to immediate family
members, business associates, as well as non-financial benefits to these people
and to oneself, including such things as reputation and the success of one’s
career.
   PERSONAL INTEREST. A relationship to something such that a personal benefit
has been, will be, or might be obtained by certain action or inaction with
respect to it.
   SOCIAL MEDIA. Content created by individuals, using the internet. Examples
of social media include Facebook, blogs, Instagram, RSS, YouTube, Second Life,
Twitter, LinkedIn, and Flickr.
   SUBORDINATE. Another official or employee over whose activities an official
or employee has direction, supervision or control.
   SUBSTANTIAL DEBTOR OR CREDITOR. Any person or business owed more than
$10,000, except from debts arising from the purchase of a primary residence or
the purchase of consumer goods which are bought or used primarily for person,
family or household purposes.
   TRANSACTION. Any matter, including but not limited to, contracts, work or
business with the city, the sale or purchase of real estate by the city, and
any request for zoning amendments, variances, or special permits pending before
the city, upon which a public officer or employee performs an official act or
action.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 38.10 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN GENERAL.
   Every officer and employee of the city and every city agency shall comply
with the following standards of conduct:
   (A)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of any officer
or employee, shall have an interest in a business or engage in any business,
transaction, or activity which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of the officer’s or employee’s public duties.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted (or unsolicited)
privileges or advantages for himself or herself or others.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or fail to take any
discretionary action, or agree to take or fail to take any discretionary
action, or influence or attempt to influence any other officer or employee to
take or fail to take any discretionary action, on any matter before the city in
order to obtain a personal or financial benefit for any of the following:
      (1)   The officer or the employee;
      (2)   A family member;
      (3)   An outside employer;
      (4)   Any business in which the officer or employee, or any family member
has a financial interest, including but not limited to:
         (a)   An outside employer or business of his or hers, or of his or her
family member, or someone who works for such outside employer or business;
         (b)   A customer or client; or
         (c)   A substantial debtor or creditor of his or hers, or of his or
her family member.
      (5)   Any business with which the officer or employee or any family
member is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or
professional relationship;
      (6)   A person or entity from whom the officer or employee has received
an election campaign contribution of a total of more than $200 during the past
election cycle (this amount includes contributions from a person’s immediate
family or business as well as contributions from an entity’s owners, directors,
or officers, as well as contributions to the officer or employee’s party
committee or non-candidate political committee);
      (7)   A non-governmental civic group, social, charitable, or religious
organization of which he or she, or his or her immediate family member, is an
officer or director.
   (D)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
in this section if, by reason of the officer’s or employee’s participation,
vote, decision, action or inaction, no personal or financial benefit accrues to
the officer or employee, a family member, an outside employer, or a business as
defined in divisions (C)(4) and (5) of this section, as a member of any
business occupation, profession, or other group, to any greater extent than any
gain could reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member of the
business, occupation, profession, or other group.
   (E)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected
by his or her participation, vote, decision or other action taken within the
scope of his or her public duties shall disclose the precise nature and value
of the interest, in writing, to the governing body of the city or city agency
served by the officer or employee, and the disclosure shall be entered on the
official record of the proceedings of the governing body. The officer or
employee shall refrain from taking any action with respect to the matter that
is the subject of the disclosure pursuant to § 38.13.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.11 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 61.252, no officer or employee of the city or any city
agency shall directly or through others undertake, execute, hold, or enjoy, in
whole or in part, any contract made, entered into, awarded, or granted by the
city or a city agency, except as follows:
      (1)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply to
contracts entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for city
office, before an appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency
office, or before an employee was hired by the city or a city agency. However,
if any contract entered into by a city or city agency officer or employee
before he or she became a candidate, was appointed to office, or was hired as
an employee, is renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes the
appointed office, or is hired as an employee, then the prohibition in division
(A) of this section shall apply to the renewal of the contract.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply if
the contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the
officer or employee is authorized to participate in establishing the contract
specifications, awarding the contract, or managing the contract performance
after the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any of the
authorities as set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or
employee shall have no interest in the contract, unless the requirements set
forth in division (3) below are satisfied.
      (3)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply in
any case where the following requirements are satisfied:
         (a)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer’s or employee’s interest in the contract are publicly disclosed
at a meeting of the governing body of the city or city agency.
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
         (c)   A finding is made by the governing body of the city or city
agency that the contract with the officer or the employee is in the best
interests of the public and the city or city agency before the contract is
executed.
         (d)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor,
and upon conviction, the court may void any contract entered into in violation
of this section. Additionally, violation of this section shall be grounds for
removal from office or employment with the city in accordance with any
applicable provisions of state law and ordinances, rules or regulations of the
city.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 38.12 INCOMPATIBLE OFFICES.
   (A)   Pursuant to Section 165 of the Kentucky Constitution, no officer or
employee of the city may also be a state officer, deputy state officer or
member of the General Assembly or may fill more than one municipal office at
the same time, whether in the same or a different city.
   (B)   Pursuant to KRS 61.080, no city officer may also hold a county office.
   (C)   In addition to the constitution and statutory provisions, there are
common law incompatibilities that have been defined by the courts. City
officers and employment positions are deemed incompatible when one office or
position of employment was inherently inconsistent in function with the other
when there arises an implication that the duties and responsibilities of both
cannot be performed at the same time with a necessary degree of impartiality
and honesty.
   (D)   KRS 61.090 provides that the acceptance of an incompatible office
operates to vacate the first office.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.13 WITHDRAWAL FROM PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   An officer or employee must refrain from acting on or discussing,
formally or informally, a matter before the city, if acting on the matter, or
failing to act on the matter, may personally or financially benefit any of the
persons or entities listed in §
38.10(C). Such an officer or employee should join the public if the withdrawal
occurs at a public meeting or leave the room if it is a legally conducted
closed meeting (executive session) under KRS 61.810 and 61.815.
   (B)   Withdrawal at a meeting requires the public announcement, on the
record, of the reason for withdrawal.
   (C)   Ongoing conflict. An officer or employee whose outside employment or
other outside activity or relationship can reasonably be expected to require
more than sporadic withdrawal must resign or cease such outside employment or
activity. An officer or employee should not begin employment or an activity or
relationship that can reasonably be expected to require more than sporadic
withdrawal. If a prospective officer or employee is in such a situation, he or
she should not accept the position with the city.
   (D)   Request to withdraw. If an officer or appointed board member is
requested to withdraw from participation in a matter for the reason that he or
she has a conflict of interest, by (1) another member; (2) a party to the
current matter; or (3) anyone else who may be affected by a decision relating
to this matter, the member must decide whether to withdraw on the official
record. If the member decides not to withdraw, the challenging member(s) may
file a complaint with the Ethics Board.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.14 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly,
or indirectly through any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift
having a fair market value of more than $100, whether in the form of money,
service, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing or promise, or any
other form, under circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred that
the gift was intended to influence, or could reasonably be expected to
influence the officer or employee in the performance of his or her public
duties.
   (B)   Certain items are typically excluded from this provision. Examples of
these items include:
      (1)   Gifts received from relatives;
      (2)   Gifts accepted on behalf of the city and transferred to the city;
      (3)   Reasonable travel and travel-related expenses, cost of admission,
food and beverages, and entertainment furnished in connection with certain
specified public events, appearances, ceremonies, economic development
activities, or fact-finding trips related to official government business;
      (4)   Usual and customary loans made in the ordinary course of business;
      (5)   Awards, including certificates, plaques, and commemorative tokens
presented in recognition of public service;
      (6)   Informational, promotional, and educational items.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.15 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any city
time, funds, personnel, equipment or other personal or real property for the
private use of any person, unless the use is available to the general public,
and then only to the extent and upon the terms that such use is available to
the general public.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.16 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No family member of any elected or appointed city officer, who
has any authority to make any decision regarding the employment, appointment,
promotion, transfer, discipline, or dismissal of any officer or employee at any
level of city government, shall be appointed to any office or position of
employment with the city.
      (2)   Part-time, seasonal employees for the Parks Department are exempt
from the above provision.
   (B)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to
July 1, 2020.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.17 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall represent
any person, group or business, other than the city, in connection with any
cause, proceeding, application or other matter pending before the city or any
city agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matters concerning his or her own interests.
   (C)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward
or other thing of value is promised to, given to, or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.18 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall intentionally
use or disclose information acquired in the course of his or her official
duties, if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further his or
her personal or financial interest or the personal or financial interest of
another person, group or business. Information shall be deemed confidential if
it is not subject to disclosure pursuant to the Kentucky Open Records Act at
the time of its use or disclosure.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.19 POLITICAL SOLICITATION.
   (A)   An officer, employee, or municipal candidate may not request, or
authorize anyone else to request, that any subordinate or potential future
subordinate participate, or not participate, in any political activity,
including the making of a campaign contribution.
   (B)   An officer, employee, or municipal candidate may not engage in any
political activity for the city while on duty or in uniform using city funds,
supplies, vehicles, or facilities, in uniform, or during any period of time
during which he or she is normally expected to perform services for the city,
for which compensation is paid.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.20 PATRONAGE.
   No officer or employee may promise an appointment or the use of his or her
influence to obtain an appointment to any position as a reward for any
political activity or contribution.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.21 OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   An officer or employee shall not accept any employment or enter into
any contracts that result in a conflict of interest with his or her duties as
an officer or employee of the city.
   (B)   An employee of the city may be self-employed or may take occasional or
part-time jobs if, in the opinion of his or her supervisor or the City
Commission, there is no conflict with working hours, the employee’s efficiency
in his or her city work, or other interest of the city.
   (C)   Employees wishing to take off-duty employment shall have the written
approval of their supervisor. The City Commission shall be informed by the
Supervisor.
   (D)   Employees or officers holding management level positions shall notify
the City Commission prior to creating, contracting with, or being employed by
any agency or business firm other than the city for their written approval.
   (E)   City employment shall remain the first priority and if at any time the
outside employment interferes with an employee’s job requirements or
performance for the city, the employee shall be required to modify the
conditions of the outside employment or terminate either the off-duty
employment or his or her city employment.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.22 POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTION.
   (A)   (1)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall
appear before the city or any city agency or receive compensation for services
rendered on behalf of any person in relation to any particular matter with
respect to any matter on which the officer or employee personally worked while
in the service of the city or city agency for a period of 90 days after the
termination of the officer’s or employee’s service with the city or city
agency.
      (2)   Exceptions are permitted for the 90-day period pursuant to current
Kentucky Retirement guidelines, if a shorter time period is permissible.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall make,
participate in making, or use his or her official position to influence a
decision involving the interests of a person with whom he or she is seeking,
negotiating, or securing an agreement concerning future employment.
   (C)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall disclose
or use, without appropriate authorization, any confidential information
acquired in the course of his or her official duties.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.23 FEES AND HONORARIA.
   (A)   An officer or employee shall not accept any compensation or honorarium
in consideration for an appearance, speech, or article unless the appearance,
speech or article is both related to the officer’s or employee’s employment or
activities outside of municipal service and is unrelated to the officer’s or
employee’s service with the city.
   (B)   This section shall not preclude an officer or an employee from
obtaining reasonable travel and travel-related expenses.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.24 ENDORSEMENTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee in his or her official capacity may publicly
endorse products or services for his or her own personal or financial interest,
or for his or her family member’s personal or financial interest.
   (B)   However, this does not prohibit an officer or employee from answering
inquiries by other governmental officials, consumer organizations, or product
information services regarding products or services.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.25 COMPLICITY WITH OR KNOWLEDGE OF OTHERS’ VIOLATIONS.
   No officer or employee may, directly or indirectly, induce, encourage, or
aid anyone to violate any provision of this Ethics Code. If an officer or
employee knows or has reasonable suspicion to believe that someone has violated
this Ethics Code, he or she is required to report it to the Ethics Board
pursuant to §
38.66.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.26 FALSELY IMPUGNING REPUTATION.
   An officer or employee may not falsely impugn the reputation of a city
resident, employee or another officer of the city. If an officer or employee
believes his or her accusation to be true, and then learns that it was false,
even in part, he or she should apologize in the same forum the accusations were
made. A failure to apologize within a reasonable period of time after learning
of the falseness of the accusations will create the presumption that the
conduct was fully intentional.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.27 MEETING ATTENDANCE.
   All elected city officers and members of city boards and commissions are
expected to attend their meetings. It is a violation of this Ethics Code to
miss more than one-third of the meetings in a 12-month period.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.28 SOCIAL MEDIA.
   (A)   City officials (including members of boards, commissions, etc.) can
maintain a personal presence on social media. However, to be considered
personal, there can be no mention of their status as a city official. Any
mention of their status as a city official potentially changes the nature of
the page, requiring record keeping in accordance with the Kentucky Department
of Library and Archives retention schedule and subjecting the entire page to
Open Records requests.
   (B)   Elected city officials who want to interact with the community on
social media in their role as city official are required to maintain a separate
account. City officials will notify the City Clerk of any official page(s)
utilized. The City Clerk will maintain an updated list of official pages of
city officials.
   (C)   City officials shall conduct themselves professionally and as a
representative of the city.
   (D)   Elected city official pages shall clearly indicate that any content
posted or submitted for posting is subject to public disclosure.
   (E)   No comments shall be deleted unless in violation of posted guidelines.
Deleted comments shall be provided to the City Clerk and must be saved for one
year.
   (F)   City officials shall not conduct city business through their social
media sites. If receiving a specific request from a citizen, the city official
shall state: “Thank you for your question. Please email me at [official email
address] or contact me at [phone number]. I look forward to speaking with you.”
   (G)   Elected officials shall not discuss issues pending before the
Commission. Elected officials may solicit public input but shall not respond to
comments. Engaging in substantive conversations on social media could require
retention of the posts and may violate the Open Meetings Act if other elected
officials are also engaging in the discussion.
   (H)   City employees are bound by the city’s social media policies in the
City of Simpsonville Employee Handbook.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.29 EMAIL.
   (A)   City officials shall maintain an official email address. The City
Clerk shall provide the official email address to officers and employees. This
must be separate from their personal email account.
   (B)   No city business shall occur through a personal email account.
   (C)   City officials shall retain emails according to the Kentucky
Department of Library and Archives schedule for emails. City officials shall
direct any record keeping questions to the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020) Penalty, see §
38.99
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 38.40 WHO MUST FILE.
   (A)   The following classes of officers and employees of the city and city
agencies shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the Ethics
Board:
      (1)   Elected city officers;
      (2)   Candidates for elected office;
      (3)   Officers and employees who hold policymaking positions, including
members of municipal boards, such as ethics boards, planning and zoning boards,
boards of adjustment, code enforcement boards, economic development boards, and
parks and recreation boards;
      (4)   Officers or employees whose job descriptions or whose actual duties
involve:
         (a)   The negotiation, authorization, or approval of contracts,
leases, franchises, revocable consents, concessions, variances, special
permits, or licenses;
         (b)   The purchase, sale, rental, or lease of real property, personal
property, or services, or a contract for any of these; and
         (c)   The obtaining of grants of money or loans.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 38.41 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS AND AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this section
shall be filed with the Ethics Board, or the administrative official designated
as the custodian of its records by the Ethics Board, no later than 12:00 p.m.
on July 1, 2020. All subsequent statements of financial interest shall be filed
no later than 12:00 p.m. on July 1 each year, provided that:
      (1)   An officer or employee newly appointed to fill an office or
position of employment with the city or a city agency shall file his or her
initial statement no later than 30 days after the date of the appointment;
      (2)   A candidate for city office shall file his or her initial statement
no later than 30 days after the date on which the person becomes a candidate
for elected office.
   (B)   The Ethics Board may grant a reasonable extension of time for filing a
statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board, the officer or
employee shall, no later than 30 days after becoming aware of the material
change, file an amended statement with the Board.
   (D)   By July 15 of each year, the Ethics Board must review all annual
financial disclosure statements filed with it to determine whether any person
required to file such a statement has failed to file it, has filed a deficient
statement, or has filed a statement that reveals a possible or potential
violation of this Ethics Code. If the Board determines that an annual or
transactional disclosure statement is deficient or reveals a possible or
potential violation of this Ethics Code, the Board will notify the person in
writing of the deficiency or possible or potential violation, and of the
penalties for failure to comply with this Ethics Code.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 38.42 FORM OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.  
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form
prescribed by the Ethics Board or the administrative official designated by the
Ethics Board.
   (B)   The Ethics Board along with the City Clerk will annually review the
list of officials and employees required to file annual disclosure statements,
to determine whether the lists are complete and accurate. Within 90 days after
it has been formed, and by February 1 each year thereafter, the Ethics Board
along with the City Clerk must create a list of the names and offices, or
positions, of all officials and employees and others required to file annual
disclosure statements pursuant to §
38.40; and notify all such persons of their obligation to file an annual
disclosure statement.
   (C)   The Board, or the designated administrative official, shall deliver a
copy of the form to each officer and employee required to file the statement,
by first class mail, email or hand delivery, no later than May 1 of each year.
   (D)   The failure of the Board, or the designated administrative official,
to deliver a copy of the form to any officer or employee shall not relieve the
officer or employee of the obligation to file the statement. (Ord. 2020-004,
passed 2-18-2020)
§ 38.43 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF THE STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall be the “official custodian” of the statements of
financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance of the
statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests shall
be maintained by the Board, or the administrative official designated by the
Board, as the “custodian” of public documents, available for public inspection
immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the Board or
the designated administrative official pursuant to the Kentucky Department of
Libraries and Archives schedule as follows:
      (1)   Upon the expiration of two years after a person ceases to be an
officer or employee of the city or a city agency, the Board shall cause to be
destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those statements
filed by the person.
      (2)   Upon the expiration of two years after any election at which a
candidate for elected city office was not elected or nominated, the Board shall
cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those
statements filed by the person.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 38.44 CONTENTS OF THE FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number, and
home address of the filer;
      (2)   The title of the filer’s office, office sought, or position of
employment;
      (3)   The occupation of the filer and the filer’s spouse or domestic
partner;
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer and
the filer’s immediate family members exceeding $5,000 during the preceding
calendar year, and the nature of the income (e.g., salary, commission,
dividends, retirement fund distribution, etc.);
      (5)   The name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had at any time
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 at fair market value
or 5% ownership interest or more.
      (6)   The name and address of any business located outside of the state,
if the business has engaged in any business transactions with the city during
the past three years, or which is anticipated to engage in any business
transactions with the city, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s
immediate family had at any time during the preceding calendar year an interest
of $10,000 at fair market value or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (7)   A designation as commercial, residential, or rural, and the
location of all real property within the county, other than the filer’s primary
residence, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 or more;
      (8)   Each source by name and address of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of $100 or more from any single source, excluding
gifts received from family members, received by the filer or any member of the
filer’s immediate family during the preceding calendar year;
      (9)   Each source by name and address of campaign contributions having an
aggregate fair market value of $100 or more from any single source, excluding
contributions received from family members, during the preceding calendar year;
      (10)   The name and address of any substantial debtor or creditor owed
more than $10,000, except debts arising from the purchase of a primary
residence or the purchase of consumer goods which are bought or used primarily
for person, family or household purposes.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of individual
clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 38.45 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The Ethics Board, or the designated administrative official, shall
notify by certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial
interests who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete
statement, or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed by the
Board. The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall
establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied, and
shall advise the person of the penalties for a violation.
   (B)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who fails or
refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice under
division (A) within the time established in the notice shall be guilty of a
civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed by the Board in an
amount not to exceed $25 per day, up to a maximum civil fine of $500. Any civil
fine imposed by the Board under this section may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails or refuses to pay the
penalty within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial interests
which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally omits
required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 38.60 ETHICS BOARD CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created an Ethics Board which shall have the
authorities, duties, and responsibilities as set forth in this chapter to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Ethics Board shall consist of up to three members who shall be
appointed by the Mayor, subject to the approval of the City Commission. The
initial members of the Ethics Board shall be appointed within 60 days of the
effective date of this chapter. The members shall serve for a term of three
years; except that with respect to the members initially appointed, one member
shall be appointed for a term of one year, one member shall be appointed for a
term of two years, and one member shall be appointed for a term of three years.
Thereafter, all appointments shall be for a term of three years.
   (C)   An Ethics Board member will serve until his or her successor has been
appointed, in the same manner as the original appointment. Consecutive service
on the Ethics Board may not exceed two full terms, except that a one-term
alternate member may thereafter serve two terms as a regular member, and a two-
term alternate member may thereafter serve one term as a regular member. In
addition, once an Ethics Board member has not served on the Ethics Board for
one full term, they may be appointed to return to the Board.
   (D)   No member of the Ethics Board shall hold any elected or appointed
office, whether paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city or
any city agency. No member of the Ethics Board may be, or have been within the
three years prior to appointment, an officer or employee, consultant or
contractor of the city; an officer in a political party or political committee;
a candidate or an active member of the campaign of a candidate for any office
within the Board’s jurisdiction; or a lobbyist. Nor should a member nor any
member of his or her immediate family, have, within the three years prior to
appointment, sought any special benefits from the city, directly or indirectly.
An Ethics Board member or staff member, or a member of his or her immediate
family, may not, directly or indirectly, seek any special benefits from the
city, make campaign contributions, nor participate in any way in the campaign
of a candidate for any office within the Board’s jurisdiction, or of an
individual currently within the Board’s jurisdiction.
   (E)   Each member of the Ethics Board shall have been a resident of the city
for at least one year prior to the date of the appointment and shall reside in
the city throughout the term in office. The members of the Ethics Board shall
be chosen by their known and consistent reputation for integrity and their
knowledge of local government affairs.
   (F)   A member of the Ethics Board may be removed by the City Commission for
misconduct, inability, or willful neglect of duties. Before any member of the
Board is removed from office under this section, the member shall be afforded
the opportunity for a hearing before the City Commission.
   (G)   Vacancies on the Ethics Board shall be filled within 60 days by the
City Commission. If a vacancy is not filled by the City Commission within 60
days, the remaining members of the Board shall fill the vacancy. All vacancies
shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (H)   Members of the Ethics Board shall serve without compensation, unless
otherwise approved by the City Commission but shall be reimbursed for all
necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
   (I)   The Ethics Board shall elect a Chairperson from among the membership
annually which shall occur on the fourth Tuesday of July at 7:00 pm. The
Chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member of the
Board.
   (J)   In addition to the annual meeting of the Ethics Board shall be held,
as necessary, upon the call of the chairperson or at the written request of a
majority of the members. The Board shall follow the Open Meetings Act for all
meetings.
   (K)   The presence of two or more members shall constitute a quorum and the
affirmative vote of two or more members shall be necessary for any official
action to be taken. Any member of the Ethics Board who has a conflict of
interest with respect to any matter to be considered by the Board shall
disclose the nature of the conflict, shall disqualify himself or herself from
voting on the matter, and shall not be counted for purposes of establishing a
quorum.
   (L)   Minutes shall be kept by city staff for all proceedings of the Ethics
Board and the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 38.61 FACILITIES AND STAFF.
   Within the limits of the funds appropriated by the City Commission in the
annual budget, the city shall provide the Ethics Board with the facilities,
materials, supplies, and staff needed for the conduct of its business.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 38.62 ANNUAL MEETING.
   The Ethics Board will meet annually on the fourth Tuesday of July at 7:00 pm
to elect a Chair and a vice-chair from among its regular members and set a plan
for any obligations for the year, including any annual reports, reviews of
disclosures, etc. A majority of the regular members is required for the Board
to take any action. The Chair or a majority of the regular members may call a
meeting of the Board.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 38.63 POWER AND DUTIES OF THE ETHICS BOARD.
   (A)   The Ethics Board shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   To initiate on its own motion, receive and investigate complaints,
hold hearings, and make findings of fact and determinations with regard to
alleged violations of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   To issue orders in connection with its investigations and hearings
requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to the proceedings and to order testimony to be
taken by deposition before any individual designated by the Board who has the
power to administer oaths;
      (3)   To administer oaths and to issue orders requiring the attendance
and testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating
to an investigation or hearing being conducted by the Board;
      (4)   To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to
the City Commission, the governing body of any city agency, the County
Attorney, and other appropriate person or body, as necessary;
      (5)   To render advisory opinions to city and city agency officers and
employees regarding whether a given set of facts and circumstances would
constitute a violation of any provision of this chapter;
      (6)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all
officers and employees of the city and city agencies who are subject to its
terms by issuing appropriate orders and imposing penalties authorized by this
chapter;
      (7)   To control and maintain all statements of financial interests that
are required to be filed by this chapter and to ensure that the statements are
available for public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter and the Kentucky Open Records Act;
      (8)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter, provided that the
rules, regulations, and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law;
      (9)   City staff to provide training and education on the City Ethics
Code to officials and employees. Attendance of ethics training is mandatory. In
the event of an excused absence, watching of video tape of the ethics training
is acceptable with an affidavit stating ethics training video was observed;
      (10)   To prepare and submit an annual report and any recommended changes
to this Ethics Code to the City Commission; and to develop and submit any
reports regarding the conduct of its business that may be required by the City
Commission;
      (11)   The Ethics Board along with the City Clerk will annually review
the list of officials and employees required to file annual disclosure
statements, to determine whether the lists are complete and accurate;
      (12)   (a)   The Ethics Board will prepare forms for complaints and for
financial disclosure statements and will make these forms available at the City
Clerk’s office and on the city’s website for easy downloading.
         (b)   During each year the Ethics Board must review all annual
financial disclosure statements filed with it to determine whether any person
required to file such a statement has failed to file it, has filed a deficient
statement, or has filed a statement that reveals a possible or potential
violation of this Ethics Code. If the Board determines that an annual or
transactional disclosure statement is deficient or reveals a possible or
potential violation of this Ethics Code, the Board will notify the person in
writing of the deficiency or possible or potential violation, and of the
penalties for failure to comply with this Ethics Code.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 38.64 TRAINING AND EDUCATION.
   (A)   The Ethics Board will, within one year after its passage, make this
Ethics Code, and explanations of its provisions (including information on how
to fill out all forms and statements), available (including, but not limited
to, on the city website) to all officials and employees, candidates, and to
municipal residents, and will develop educational materials and a required
educational program for the officials and employees of the city regarding the
provisions of this Ethics Code. The educational program must begin within 18
months after this Ethics Code goes into effect.
   (B)   In addition, the Ethics Board will attempt to hold annual workshops
for new and experienced officials and employees to discuss this Ethics Code,
its values and goals, its enforcement, and the ways in which it has affected
their work and the working of the city government.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 38.65 ANNUAL REPORTS AND ANNUAL REVIEW OF ETHICS CODE.
   (A)   The Ethics Board must prepare and submit an annual report to the
legislative body, summarizing the activities, decisions, and advisory opinions
of the Board. The report may also recommend changes to the text or
administration of this Ethics Code. The report must be submitted no later than
September 1 of each year, covering to the year ended June 30, and must be filed
with the City Clerk and made available on the city website.
   (B)   The Ethics Board will periodically (no less than every five years)
review this code, the enforcement of the code, and the Board’s rules,
regulations, and administrative procedures to determine whether they promote
integrity, public confidence, and participation in city government, and whether
they set forth clear and enforceable, common sense standards of conduct.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 38.66 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Ethics Board or the administrative official
designated by the Ethics Board. All complaints shall be in writing, signed by
the complainant, and shall meet any other requirements established by the
Board. The Board shall acknowledge receipt of a complaint to the complainant
within ten working days from the date of receipt. The Board shall forward
within ten working days to each officer or employee of the city or city agency
who is the subject of the complaint a copy of the complaint and a general
statement of the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Ethics Board may, on its own initiative, determine through an
inquiry into informal allegations or information provided directly to the
Board, by referral, in the public news media, or otherwise that a violation of
this Ethics Code may exist and prepare a complaint of its own. The Ethics Board
may also amend a complaint that has been filed with it by adding further
allegations, by adding respondents involved in the same conduct, directly or
indirectly, by action or inaction, or by deleting allegations that would not
constitute a violation of this Ethics Code, have been made against persons or
entities not covered by this Ethics Code, or do not appear to be supported by
the facts. The Ethics Board may also consolidate complaints where the
allegations are materially related. Amended complaints must be sent to the
complainant and respondent by the Ethics Board.
   (C)   Within 30 days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the Ethics Board
shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations contained in the
complaint. The Board shall afford a person who is the subject of the complaint
an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the complaint. The person shall
have the right to be represented by counsel, to appear and be heard under oath,
and to offer evidence in response to the allegations.
   (D)   The person who is the subject of the complaint (respondent) may file
with the Ethics Board a response to the complaint within 30 days after his or
her receipt of the complaint. The response, if any, must be sent to the person
filing the original complaint (complainant) by the Ethics Board within five
days after its filing. Within 15 days after receipt, the complainant may also
file with the Ethics Board a response to the respondent’s response, which the
Ethics Board must send to the respondent within five days after its filing.
   (E)   Extensions of time to any of the time limitations specified in this
section may be granted by the Ethics Board upon a vote of the majority of the
members. If no meeting can be held before such time limit runs out, the Chair
may extend the time frame until the following meeting. The Ethics Board must
give written notice of any extension(s) of time to the respondent and the
complainant.
   (F)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Ethics Board shall be confidential until a final determination
is made by the Board, except:
      (1)   The Board may turn over to the Commonwealth’s Attorney or County
Attorney evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings.
      (2)   If the complainant or alleged violator publicly discloses the
existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Board may publicly confirm the
existence of the inquiry, and, at its discretion, make public any documents
which were issued to either party.
   (G)   The Board shall make a determination based on its preliminary inquiry
whether the complaint is within its jurisdiction and, if so, whether it alleges
a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation of this chapter. If the Board
concludes that the complaint is outside of its jurisdiction, frivolous or
without factual basis, the Board shall immediately terminate the inquiry,
reduce the conclusion to writing, and transmit a copy of its decision to the
complainant and to all officers or employees against whom the complaint was
filed.
   (H)   If the Ethics Board concludes, based upon its preliminary inquiry,
that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations
sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Board shall notify the officer or employee who is the subject of the complaint
and may initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation.
   (I)   If a complaint is accepted or prepared pursuant to division (A), the
Ethics Board must conduct an investigation. From this point on, the complainant
may not withdraw his or her complaint, although he or she may request that the
Ethics Board either make a finding of no probable cause or no violation.
   (J)    In conducting an investigation, the Ethics Board may administer oaths
or affirmations, subpoena witnesses, compel their attendance, and require the
production of any books or records it deems relevant and material. The Police
Department and all city agencies, bodies, officials, and employees are required
to respond fully and truthfully to all inquiries and cooperate with all
requests of the Ethics Board or its agents relating to an investigation. It is
a violation of this Ethics Code for any official or employee to deny access to
information requested by the Ethics Board in the course of an investigation or
a public hearing, except to the extent that such denial is required by federal,
state, or local law.
   (K)   Nothing in this section may be construed to permit the Ethics Board to
conduct an investigation of itself or of any of its members or staff. If the
Ethics Board receives a complaint alleging that the Board or any of its members
or staff has violated any provision of this Ethics Code, or any other law, the
Board must promptly transmit to the City Commission a copy of the complaint.
   (L)   Any person who knowingly files with the Board a false complaint
alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter by an officer or employee
of the city or any city agency shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.67 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   If the Ethics Board determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, the Board shall issue an order setting
the matter for a hearing within 30 days of the date the order is issued, unless
the alleged violator petitions for and the Board consents to a later date. The
order setting the matter for hearing, along with a copy of any pertinent
regulations of the Board relating to the hearing shall be sent to the alleged
violator within 24 hours of the time the order setting a hearing is issued.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 38.68 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure and the Kentucky Rules of
Evidence shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Ethics Board; however,
the hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in
accordance with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Board so as
to afford all parties the full range of due process rights required by the
nature of the proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the respondent, or his or
her representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Board in connection with the
matter to be heard. The Board shall inform the alleged violator, or his or her
representative, of any exculpatory evidence in its possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a Board hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to call
and examine witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross-examine witnesses, to
submit evidence, and to be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have the
right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Board, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (E)   All hearings of the Ethics Board shall be public, unless the members
vote to go into executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810.
   (F)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Ethics Board shall, as soon
as practicable, begin deliberations in executive session for the purpose of
reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether a violation
of this chapter has been proven. Within 30 days after completion of the
hearing, the Board shall issue a written report of its findings and
conclusions.
   (G)   If the Board concludes in its report that no violation of this chapter
has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this determination to
the officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint and to the party
who filed the complaint.
   (H)   If the Board concludes in its report that in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and convincing proof of a
violation of this chapter, the Board shall within 15 days:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation;
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the City Commission and governing body of
the city agency with which the violator serves;
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the City Commission, that the violator be
sanctioned as recommended by the Board, which may include a recommendation for
discipline or dismissal, or removal from office;
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $1,000;
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this chapter or state laws
to the county attorney or commonwealth attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 38.69 APPEALS.
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the Ethics Board may appeal the finding to the Circuit Court of the
county within 30 days after the date of the final action by the Ethics Board by
filing a petition with the court against the Board. The Board shall transmit to
the Clerk of the Court all evidence considered by the Board at the public
hearing.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 38.70 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one year after
the violation is discovered.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 38.71 ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A)   The Ethics Board may render advisory opinions concerning matters under
its jurisdiction, based upon real or hypothetical facts and circumstances, upon
its own initiative, or when requested by any officer or employee of the city or
a city agency who is covered by this chapter.
   (B)   An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions. The request for an advisory opinion
shall remain confidential unless confidentiality is waived, in writing, by the
requestor.
   (C)   The Board may adopt regulations, consistent with the Kentucky Open
Records Law, to establish criteria under which it will issue confidential
advisory opinions. All other advisory opinions shall be public documents,
except that before an advisory opinion is made public, it shall be redacted so
that the identity of any person associated with the opinion shall not be
revealed.
   (D)   The confidentiality of an advisory opinion may be waived either:
      (1)   In writing by the person who requested the opinion;
      (2)   By majority vote of the members of the Board, if a person makes or
purports to make public the substance or any portion of an advisory opinion
requested by or on behalf of the person. The Board may vote to make public the
advisory opinion request and related materials.
   (E)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be binding on the
Board in any subsequent proceeding concerning the facts and circumstances of
the particular case if no intervening facts or circumstances arise which would
change the opinion of the Board if they had existed at the time the opinion was
rendered. However, if any fact determined by the Board to be material was
omitted or misstated in the request for an opinion, the Board shall not be
bound by the opinion.
   (F)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be admissible in
the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil proceeding for violations of
this chapter for actions taken in reliance on that opinion.
   (G)   Advisory opinions will be indexed and maintained on file by the Ethics
Board and the City Clerk, and will also be available on the city website, with
unnecessary financial and personal details redacted. Officers, employees, and
businesses should be notified about advisory opinions that may directly affect
their conduct.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 38.72 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall subject to
reprisal, or directly or indirectly use, or threaten to use, any official
authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage,
restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce, or discriminate against any
person who in good faith reports, discloses, divulges, or otherwise brings to
the attention of the Ethics Board or any other agency or officer of the city or
the Commonwealth any facts or information relative to an actual or suspected
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as:
      (1)   Prohibiting disciplinary or punitive action if an officer or
employee of the city or any city agency discloses information which he or she
knows:
         (a)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity;
         (b)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of
the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 to 61.884;
         (c)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this chapter
or by state or federal law, any officer or employee of the city or any city
agency who is found by the Ethics Board to have violated any provision of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to a civil
fine imposed by the Ethics Board not to exceed $1,000, which may be recovered
by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails to
pay the penalty within a prescribed period of time.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by
the Ethics Board to have violated any provision of this chapter shall forfeit
to the city or the city agency an amount equal to the economic benefit or gain
which the officer or employee is determined by the Board to have realized as a
result of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be recovered by the
city in a civil action in the nature of debt, if the offender fails to pay the
amount of the forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Ethics Board that an officer or employee of the city
or any city agency is guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be sufficient
cause for removal, suspension, demotion, or other disciplinary action by the
City Commission or city agency, or by any other officer or agency having the
power of removal or discipline. Any action to remove or discipline any officer
or employee for a violation of this chapter shall be taken in accordance with
all applicable ordinances and regulations of the city and all applicable laws
of the Commonwealth.
(Ord. 2020-004, passed 2-18-2020)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   SEWERS
         
51.   SOLID WASTE
CHAPTER 50: SEWERS
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Management and control by City Commission
   
50.03   Tap on and capacity charges
   
50.04   User rates
   
50.05   Use regulations
   
50.06   Pollutant discharge limits and pretreatment requirements
   
50.07   Pretreatment program administration
   
50.08   Construction/development regulations
   
50.09   General provisions
   
50.10   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
50.11   Enterprise incentive program
   
50.12   Sewer security deposit fees
   
50.13   Extensions of service to unserved customers and areas
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Terms not
specifically defined shall be interpreted according to their commonly accepted
definition. Words of the masculine gender shall be deemed and construed to
include correlative words of the feminine and neuter genders. Words importing
the singular number shall include the plural number and vice versa, and words
importing persons shall include, as in the context may be appropriate, firms,
associations, partnerships (including limited partnerships), trusts, joint
ventures, corporations, or other legal entities including public bodies, as
well as natural persons.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Energy and Environmental Protection Cabinet or an
authorized representative thereof.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE.  
      (1)   An authorized representative of a user may be:
         (a)   A principal executive officer if the industrial user is a
corporation;
         (b)   A general partner or proprietor if the user is a partnership or
proprietorship, respectively;
         (c)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated
above if such representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the indirect discharge originates.
      (2)   An authorized representative of the city may be any person
designated by the city to act on its behalf.
   BASELINE MONITORING REPORT (BMR). A report submitted by categorical
industrial users within 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
standard which indicates the compliance status of the user with the applicable
categorical standard (40 CFR 403.12(b)).
   B.O.D. (denoting biochemical oxygen demand).  The quantity of oxygen
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five days at 20 degrees C, expressed in parts per
million weight.
   BOARD. Sewer Board.
   BUILDING DRAIN.  That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from sewerage drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, ending five feet
outside of the inner surface of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the point of
connection with the public sewer or other place of disposal.
   BUILDING SEWER PERMIT.  As set forth in § 50.05(B), Building Sewers and
Connections.
   CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER.  An industrial user subject to categorical
pretreatment standards which have been promulgated by EPA.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS (National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards or Pretreatment Standard).  Any regulation containing pollutant
discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with Section 307 (b) and
(c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1347) which applies to a specific category of
industrial users.
   CITY. The City of Simpsonville, Shelby County, Kentucky, a municipal
corporation of the Fifth Class, presently governed by a City Commission
according to the provisions of KRS Chapter 83A.
   CLEAN WATER ACT (CWA). Also known as the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act, enacted by PL 92-500, October 18, 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq., as amended
by PL 95-217, December 28, 1977; PL 97-117, December 29, 1981; PL 97-440,
January 8, 1983, and PL 100-04, February 4, 1987.
   COMBINED WASTESTREAM FORMULA (CWF). Procedure for calculating alternative
discharge limits at industrial facilities where a regulated wastestream is
combined with other non-regulated wastestreams prior to treatment (40 CFR
403.7).
   COMMERCIAL USER. All retail stores, restaurants, office buildings,
laundries, and other private business and service establishments. Also included
in this definition are nursing and convalescent homes, office condominiums,
building and lodging homes, bed and breakfasts, hotels, motels and any multi-
unit residential building containing eight or more units.
   COMMISSION. The City Commission of the City of Simpsonville, Kentucky.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT.  Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids and fecal
coliform bacteria; plus any additional pollutants identified in the POTW's
NPDES/KPDES permit, where the POTW is designed to treat such pollutants and, in
fact, does treat such pollutants so as to ensure compliance with the POTW's
NPDES/KPDES permit.
   CONCENTRATION-BASED LIMIT. A limit based on the relative strength of a
pollutant in a wastestream, usually expressed in mg/l.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY.  Shall refer to the city when there exists an approved
pretreatment program under the provisions of 40 CFR 403.11.
   COOLING WATER.  The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   DAILY MAXIMUM.  The maximum allowable value for any single observation in a
given day.
   DEVELOPER.  Landowner, person having land under contract or otherwise
authorized to act on behalf of said persons where there is intent to develop
property thru division, construction enhancement or increase of current use.
   DILUTE WASTESTREAM. Boiler blowdown, sanitary wastewater, noncontact cooling
water and certain process wastestreams that have been excluded from regulation
in categorical pretreatment standards because they contain none or only trace
amounts of the regulated pollutant.
   DIRECT DISCHARGE.  The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly
to the waters of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   DISCHARGER. Any person that discharges or causes a discharge to a public
sewer.
   DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. The water-carried wastes produced from noncommercial or
non-industrial activities and which result from normal human living processes.
   EASEMENT.  An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT.  The liquid overflow of any facility designed to treat, convey or
retain wastewater.
   EPA. The Environmental Protection Agency of the United States Government.
   EQUALIZATION. Reduction in magnitude of sewage discharge flow rate.
   EQUIPMENT. All movable, non-fixed items necessary to the wastewater
treatment process.
   FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year of the municipal sewer system, commencing July
1 of each year and ending June 30 of the following year.
   FLOW PROPORTIONAL COMPOSITE SAMPLE. Combination of individual samples
proportional to the flow of the wastestream at the time of sampling.
   FLOW WEIGHTED AVERAGING FORMULA (FWA). A procedure used to calculate
alternative limits for a categorical pretreatment standard where regulated and
nonregulated wastestreams combine after treatment, but prior to the monitoring
point as defined in 40 CFR 403.
   GARBAGE. Solid waste from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food,
and from handling, storage and sale of produce.
   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Includes legislative, judicial, administrative, and
regulatory activities of federal, state and local governments.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a wastestream on a one-time basis
with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of
time.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE.  Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks, and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction of non-domestic
pollutants from any source regulated under Section 307(b) or (c) of the Act,
(33 U.S.C. 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into
the system).
   INDUSTRIAL USER.  A source of indirect discharge which does not constitute a
discharge of pollutants under regulations issued pursuant to Section 402 of the
Clean Water Act (may include commercial).
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. The liquid waste from industrial or other technical
processes.
   INSTITUTIONAL USER.  Includes social, charitable, religious, and educational
activities such as schools, churches, hospitals, nursing home, penal
institutions and similar institutional users.
   INTERCEPTOR. A device designed and installed so as to separate and retain
deleterious, hazardous or undesirable matter from normal wastes which permits
normal sewage or liquid wastes to discharge into the sewer or drainage system
by gravity. Interceptor as defined herein is commonly referred to as a grease,
oil, or sand trap.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, both:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
      (2)   Therefore is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the
POTW's NPDES/KPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation) or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in
compliance with the following statutory provisions and regulations or permits
issued thereunder (or more stringent state or local regulations): Section 405
of the Clean Water Act, the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (including Title
II, more commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
(RCRA)), and including state regulations contained in any state sludge
management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA, the Clean Air Act,
the Toxic Substances Control Act, and the Marine Protection, Research and
Sanctuaries Act (40 CFR 403.3).
   KRS. The Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   MAYOR. The chief executive officer of the city under the commission form of
government.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE. The maximum allowable value for the average of all
observations obtained during one month.
   MULTI-UNIT SEWER CUSTOMER.  A location served where there are two or more
residential units or apartments, two or more businesses in the same building or
complex or where there is any combination of business and residence in the same
building or complex. Provided, however, should said multi-unit sewer customer
have units of eight or more, then same shall be considered as a commercial
user.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD OR PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with Section 307(b) and (c) of the Clean Water Act which applies to
a specific category of industrial users. This term includes prohibitive
discharge limits established pursuant to 40 CFR 403.5.
   NATIONAL (or KENTUCKY) POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM or NPDES/KPDES
PERMIT.  A permit issued pursuant to Section 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1332),
or a permit issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky under this authority and
referred to as KPDES.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a water course, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NEW SOURCE. Any building, structure, facility or installation from which
there is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which
commenced after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under
Section 307(c) of the Act which will be applicable to such source if such
standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided
that:
      (1)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed at
a site at which no other source is located; or
      (2)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally replaces
the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at
an existing source; or
      (3)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the building,
structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of an
existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source should
be considered.
   NINETY (90) DAY COMPLIANCE REPORT. A report submitted by a categorical
industrial user, within 90 days following the date for final compliance with
applicable categorical standards that documents and certifies the compliance
status of the user (40 CFR 403.12(d)).
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER.  Wastewater that has a BOD concentration of not
more than 300 mg/l and a suspended solids concentration of no more than 350 mg/
l and chlorine of not more than 50 mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.  Those functions that result in expenditures
during the useful life of the treatment works for materials, labor, utilities
and other items which are necessary for managing and for which such works were
designed and constructed. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes replacement as
defined below.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FUND. The City of Simpsonville Sewer Operation and
Maintenance Fund created in and by this chapter.
   ORDINANCE. This chapter, unless otherwise specified.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge of pollutant which cannot be treated adequately by
the POTW, and therefore exits into waters of the United States in quantities or
concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges
from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the POTW's
NPDES/KPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation) (40 CFR 403.3).
   PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORT.  A report on compliance status submitted by
significant industrial waste users to the control authority at least
semiannually (40 CFR 403.12(e)).
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical, wrecked or discharge equipment,
rock, sand, cellar dirt and industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste
discharged into water.
   POLLUTION. The man-made or man-induced alteration of the chemical, physical,
biological, and radiological integrity of water.
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW designed to provide treatment
to wastewater.
   PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of
discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW. The reduction
or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes, or
process change(s), or other means, except as prohibited by 40 CFR 403.6(d).
   PROCESS WASTEWATER.  Any water which, during manufacturing or processing,
comes into direct contact with or results from the production of or use of any
raw material, intermediate product, finished product, by-product, or waste
product.
   PRODUCTION-BASED STANDARD. A discharge limitation expressed in terms of
allowable pollutant mass discharge rate per unit of production and is applied
directly to an industrial user's manufacturing process.
   PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD.  Any regulation developed under the
authority of 307(b) of the Act and 40 CFR, Section 403.(5).
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE.  The waste from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer controlled by the City of Simpsonville, to which
owners of the abutting properties shall have access. In general, the public
sewer shall include the main sewer in the right of way or easement and the
service branch to the easement or property line, or a main sewer upon private
property and any sewers which are connected with the sewage system of the City
of Simpsonville to the extent of ownership by public authority.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works as defined by
Section 212 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. 1292) which is owned in this instance by the
city. This definition includes any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant, but does not include pipes, sewers, or other conveyances not
connected to a facility providing treatment. For the purpose of this chapter,
POTW shall also include any sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from
persons outside the city who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users
of the city's POTW.
   REGULATED WASTESTREAM. An industrial process wastestream regulated by an
National Categorical Pretreatment Standard.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenance which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
   RESIDENTIAL. A use of independent housekeeping and which shall include
multi-family dwellings such as duplex, apartments, condominiums, house
trailers, trailer courts, trailer parks and the like. (See § 50.03(A)(3) for
definition of RESIDENTIAL UNIT)
   RESIDENTIAL USER. Any contributor to the city's treatment works whose lot,
parcel or real estate, or building is used for domestic dwelling purposes only.
   REVENUES.  Moneys received by the city through the exaction of rates and
charges for use of the services and facilities of the sewer system (as
distinguished from monies which may be received on a one time basis as tap on
charges, capacity charges, the proceeds of insurance, and the like).
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground water are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SEWER BOARD. The duly appointed sewer board established by § 50.02.
   SEWER SYSTEM. The sanitary sewer system constructed and installed in the
City of Simpsonville, Kentucky and/or within the city service area.
   SEWER USER CHARGES. A system of charges levied on users of a POTW for the
cost of operation and maintenance, including replacement, or such works.
   SEWERAGE. Any and all facilities used for collecting, conveying, pumping,
treating and disposing of wastewater.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU). Defined by EPA guidance as:
      (1)   All industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
under 40 CFR 403.6 and 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N; and
      (2)   Any noncategorical industrial user that:
         (a)   Discharges 25,000 gallons per day or more of process wastewater
(process wastewater excludes sanitary noncontact cooling, and boiler blowdown
wastewaters); or
         (b)   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up to 5% or more
of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic (BOD, TSS, etc.) capacity of
the treatment plant; or
         (c)   Has a reasonable potential, in the opinion of the control or
approval authority, to adversely affect the pollutants, sludge contamination or
endangerment of POTW workers.
   SLUG.  Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration of flow during normal operation.
   SLUG DISCHARGE.  Any discharge of a non-routine episodic nature including,
but not limited to, an accidental spill or non-customary batch discharge or any
discharge of water or wastewater in which the concentration of any given
constituent or quantity of flow exceeds, for any period or duration longer that
15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-hour concentration or flow rate
during normal operation which adversely affects the POTW.
   SLUG LOAD. Any pollutant (including biochemical oxygen demand) released in a
discharge at a flow rate or concentration which will cause interference with
the operation of the treatment works or which exceeds limits set forth in the
industry's discharge permit and which include accidental spills.
   SPILL PREVENTION AND CONTROL PLAN. A plan prepared by an industrial user to
minimize the likelihood of a spill and to expedite control and cleanup
activities should a spill occur.
   SPLIT SAMPLE. Portion of a collected sample given to the industry or to
another agency to verify or compare laboratory results.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification scheme based on
the type of industry or process at a facility.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
recent editions of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation
and as set forth in the Congressional Record 40 CFR 136.
   STATE. Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface water and drainage, but
excludes sewage and polluted industrial waste.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface water and drainage, but
excludes sewage and polluted industrial waste.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the city to supervise the publicly
owned treatment works and who is charged with certain duties and
responsibilities by this chapter or his or her duly authorized representative.
   SURCHARGE. A charge for services in addition to the basic sewer user and
debt service charges, for those users whose contributions contain biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD), chemical oxygen demand (COD), total suspended solids
(TSS), oil and grease or ammonia-nitrogen (NH3-N) in concentrations which
exceed limits specified herein for such pollutants. Where authorized by the
control authority, payment of a surcharge will authorize the discharge of the
referenced pollutants so long as the discharge does not cause pass through or
interference.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   SYSTEM.  Sewer system as defined above.
   TIME PROPORTIONAL COMPOSITE SAMPLE. Combination of individual samples with
fixed volumes taken at specific time intervals.
   TOXIC ORGANIC MANAGEMENT PLAN. Written plan submitted by industrial users as
an alternative to TTO monitoring, which specifies the toxic organic compounds
used, the method of disposal used and procedures for assuring that toxic
organics do not routinely spill or leak into wastewater discharged to the POTW.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT.  Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic
in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of EPA under the provisions of
the Clean Water Act 307(a) or any amendments thereto.
   TREATMENT WORKS. Any devise or system for the storage, treatment, recycling
and reclamation of municipal wastewater, domestic wastewater or liquid
industrial wastes. These include intercepting sewers, outfall sewers,
wastewater collection systems, pumping, power and other equipment and their
appurtenances, extensions, improvement, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof, elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works, including
site acquisition of the land that will be an integral part of the treatment
process or used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such treatment
(including land for composting sludge, temporary storage of such compost and
land used for the storage of treated wastewater in land treatment systems
before land application); or any other method or system for preventing,
abating, reducing, storing, treating, separating or disposing of municipal
waste or industrial waste, including waste in sanitary sewer systems.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the treatment
works effluent criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of
receiving water quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to
the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities.
   UNREGULATED WASTESTREAM. A wastestream that is not regulated by a national
categorical pretreatment standard.
   USER. Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the POTW.
   USER CHARGE.  The total wastewater service charge which is levied in a
proportional and adequate manner for the cost of operation, maintenance,
replacement and debt service expenses of the wastewater treatment works.
   WASTE DISCHARGE PERMIT (WPP). A permit issued to industrial users which
authorizes discharges to the public sewer as set forth in §
50.07.
   WASTEWATER.  The spent water of a community. Sanitary or domestic wastes
shall mean the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial
buildings and institutions as distinct from industrial waste.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES . The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, treat domestic and industrial wastes, and dispose of the
effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with waste treatment plant or wastewater treatment plant or water
pollution control plant or sewage treatment plant.
   WATER METER. A water volume measuring and recording device, furnished and/or
installed by a user and approved by the West Shelby Water District (excludes
discharge meter).
   WATERCOURSE.  A channel in which a flow of water occurs either continuously
or intermittently.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 6-17-2009; Am. Ord. 2020-001, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 50.02 MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL BY CITY COMMISSION.
   (A)   All rates for sewer services as well as charges for hookups, capacity
charges and other related fees shall be as are established by city ordinance.
   (B)   The City Commission, acting by and through its City Administrator and/
or City Clerk/ Treasurer shall enforce the regular and prompt collection of
revenues due from patrons for the sewer services and are specifically
authorized and directed to invoke the provisions of the agreement with the West
Shelby Water District so that the water service of any patron who fails to pay
the account due for sewer service will be disconnected; and to fix a reasonable
charge for restoration of service, as determined by the Sewer Board.
   (C)   Within 90 days of the end of each fiscal year, the City Clerk/
Treasurer shall cause to be paid to the city from Sewer Board revenues a sum
not to exceed 10% of the gross revenues collected by the Sewer Board for the
prior fiscal year. The actual amount shall be as decided by the Simpsonville
City Commission. Said percentage shall be of gross revenues for sewer service
only and shall not include tap on or capacity charges.
   (D)   All duties previously assigned to the Sewer Board pursuant to
Ordinance 2009-006 are hereby assumed by the City Commission. Any reference to
an act, responsibility, administrative function or otherwise in that ordinance
to the Sewer Board shall henceforth be a function of the City Commission.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 6-17-2009; Am. Ord. 2012-002, passed 3-6-2012)
§ 50.03 TAP ON AND CAPACITY CHARGES.
   The City of Simpsonville hereby establishes the following tap on capacity
charges for each separate unit/user connected to the Simpsonville sewer system.
   (A)   Residential connections.
      (1)   Tap-on charge. A connection charge of $2,000 for each separate
residential dwelling unit/user connected to the system is hereby assessed.
      (2)   Capacity charge. A capacity charge of $2,000 for each new
residential dwelling unit/user connected to the system is hereby assessed.
      (3)   A residential dwelling unit herein shall be defined as a family
unit maintaining separate and independent housekeeping. This is further defined
to include each single family dwelling and each separate residence in a
multiple dwelling unit/user, such as each unit in a duplex, apartment,
condominium, town house, trailer court, trailer park and the like.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, for any multi-unit sewer customer which is
residential, and which contains eight or more units, same shall for the
purposes of determining tap on fees and connection fees hereunder be considered
to be a commercial user as defined herein.
   (B)   Fees for all other classifications.
      (1)   A tap-on charge is hereby assessed as prescribed for all non-
residential properties and for all other classifications, including, but not
limited to, commercial, industrial, public and quasi-public uses: a connection
charge to be calculated and computed at the rate of $400 per 1,000 gallons
monthly water usage based upon the estimated average monthly usage for one
year; to be adjusted at the end of the first year of actual use, said
adjustment to be an additional assessment or a credit according to the variance
(plus or minus) from the initial estimate used in calculating the connection
fee but in no event shall the tap-on fee be less than $2,000.
      (2)   The capacity charge for all non-residential classifications of
properties within the city limits shall be assessed and computed at the rate of
$400 per 1,000 gallons of monthly water usage, based on the estimated average
monthly usage for one year; said charge to be paid in advance at or before the
time of connection to the sewer system; to be adjusted at the end of the first
year of actual usage, said adjustment to be an additional assessment, or a
credit, according to the variance (plus or minus) from the initial estimate
used in calculating the capacity charge, but in no event shall the capacity
charge be less than a minimum charge of $2,000; further, the city through its
Sewer Board hereby reserves the right at any time in the future to increase
and/or impose and collect an additional capacity charge should the average
monthly usage of any previously connected customer increase over usage as
calculated and determined for the first year.
   (C)   Properties situated outside city limits.
      (1)   All properties situated outside the corporate limits of the City of
Simpsonville are deemed to be distinct from similar properties located within
the city limits in that these properties outside the city, including
residential, are more expensive to provide services to and are not subject to
the City of Simpsonville property taxes, zoning regulations and the other
regulatory laws of the city. Therefore, such properties are declared to belong
to a separate category and classification, distinct from properties situated
within the city limits.
      (2)   All the provisions applicable to the various classifications of
properties situated within the city limits are applicable to the several
classifications of properties in this category, that is, properties situated
outside the city limits, including the tap-on and capacity charge rates, except
that such rates (user rate, capacity and tap on charge) are hereby increased by
40% of the amount assessed for similar properties within the city limits.
Provided, however, those entities known as the Whitney Young Job Corp Center
and the Rest Stop facility of the Commonwealth of Kentucky pre-existed the
adoption of this 40% extra charge and shall continue at a 20% charge above the
otherwise established rates for property located in the city.
   (D)   Payment. All sums payable pursuant to this section shall be paid in
advance of issuance of any tap-on permit and before connection to the sewer
system of the City of Simpsonville.
   (E)   Other provisions.
      (1)   The terms hereof shall apply both to direct and indirect
connections and include any connection that results in sewer waste being
deposited into the Simpsonville sewer system. Provided, however, no new
indirect connections shall be permitted. All connections to the Simpsonville
sewer system shall be made by direct tap on. Further, the Superintendent and
the Sewer Board shall take steps to amortize out of existence those indirect
connections now in existence and may, in their discretion, take steps to
enforce elimination of the indirect connections and indirect taps where
reasonably possible.
      (2)   Funds collected pursuant to this section shall be utilized as
follows:
         (a)   Tap-on charges. For all purposes related to the operation,
maintenance, expansion or otherwise for the Simpsonville sewer system and
including debt service.
         (b)   Capacity charges shall be reserved and utilized for facilities
expansion, upgrade, construction and related expenses.
         (c)   Where a current tap-on exists but the nature of the
classification is changed in a manner that will increase the burden on the
system, adjustments may be required in the discretion of the Sewer Board for
increased tap-on and capacity charges consistent with the modified
classification.
   (F)   Reconnection after discontinuance of service. Should sewer service be
disconnected for some reason other than non-payment of fees for violation of
this chapter, reconnection may be made without any additional capacity charge
unless required because of a change of use or increase of flow in which case,
the users shall pay the increased difference. Further, no additional tap on or
capacity charge shall be charged upon reconnection under the provisions of this
division except should the customer reconnecting sewer service require a new
physical connection in which case a new tap on charge shall be paid.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 6-17-2009; Am. Ord. 2020-001, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 50.04 USER RATES.
   (A)   (1)   Rates and charges for sewer service shall be based insofar as
possible upon the quantity of water supplied to the respective buildings or
premises by the water district or such other source as may be a source of water
thereto in accordance with the following schedule:
   Monthly Sewer Rates
      Minimum bill - First 2,000 gallons      $10.40
      All over 2,000 gallons          $ 5.202 per 1,000 gallons
      (2)   Further, there is hereby established an annual cost of living
increase to be calculated effective July 1 of each year beginning with July 1,
2011 on which dates the rates hereby established shall automatically be
increased by 2.5%. However, the City Commission of the City of Simpsonville
may, by vote taken on or before June 15 preceding said date vote to waive all
or any portion of the increase for that year.
   (B)   In the event that a building or premises discharging sewage, water or
other flowable wastes into the municipal sewer facilities uses water from a
well, cistern, or on other than a metered basis from either a private or public
water supply, then in each such case the sewer user may elect, either:
      (1)   To install, solely at the expense of the sewer user, a water meter
or other measuring device, acceptable to the governing body of the city or to
its duly authorized agent in charge of the operation of the municipal sewer
system; and the quantity of water, sewage, or other flowable wastes, as
measured by such meter or device shall be used in determining the monthly sewer
bill, according to the rates set forth herein; or
      (2)   To be billed based upon a minimum usage of 5,000 gallons per month.
The city may require that there be installed, solely at the expense of the
sewer user, a sewer cut-off valve, approved by the city or its duly authorized
agent in charge of the operation of the municipal sewer system; and in the
event of delinquency in the payment of the monthly sewer service bill to the
premises, the city may order that such sewer cut-off valve be closed, whereupon
the sewer user will become subject to the penalties prescribed in § 50.99 as in
the case of sewer users otherwise failing or refusing to comply with the
provisions of this chapter. In case of such cut-off, the city shall have no
liability for damage to person or property resulting from use or installation
of a cut-off valve.
   (C)   Unusual sewage discharges. In the event the sewage, water or other
liquid wastes being discharged into the municipal sewer facilities from any
building or premises contains unduly high concentrates of any substances which
add to the operating costs of the municipal sewer facilities, then special
rates, rentals, or charges may be established, charged and collected as to such
building or premises, or the owner or other interested party may be required to
specially treat such sewage, water or other liquid wastes before it is
discharged into the municipal sewer facilities. (See §§
50.06 and
50.07) Such charges, rentals and special rates may be retroactive to the time
it is determined that such unduly high concentrations began.
   (D)   Other special classifications. Whenever it is determined by the
governing body of the city or its duly authorized agent which may be in charge
and control of the operations of said municipal waterworks and sewer systems,
to be necessary to classify any commercial institutions or industries by reason
of the unusual purpose for which water is used, or by reason of the character
of the sewage, water or other liquid wastes discharged therefrom, or whenever
the established schedules of rates and charges for any reason are not
applicable, then special rates or other charges may be established by the
governing body of the city, and any person, firm or corporation being
dissatisfied with the established schedules of rates and charges by reason of
peculiar or unusual use or occupancy or any premises, and consequently alleging
peculiar or unusual uses of water, may file application with the governing body
of the city or with any other board or body of said city which may be in charge
and control of the municipal waterworks and sewer systems, for special
classification rates and charges. (See §§
50.07 and
50.08)
   (E)   Owners and occupants jointly liable. The rates and charges aforesaid
shall be billed to the owners or occupants of the premises, and if the occupant
of any premises is not also the owner, both the owner and the occupant shall be
responsible for the payment of the sewer bill, which, if unpaid, shall
constitute a lien upon the premises.
   (F)   In the event that any single family residential connection uses water
in excess of 10,000 gallons during the months of June, July or August (being
billings that are sent in July, August and September), then it will be presumed
that any amount in excess of 10,000 gallons was utilized for lawn watering,
swimming pool filling and/or other non-sewered purposes and the sewer bill
shall be based upon 10,000 gallons of consumption for that month.
   (G)   In the event that any residential building or premises uses water in
excess of 10,000 gallons per month as shown by the water meter readings for a
period not exceeding two consecutive months and it can be shown by the customer
that a substantial portion of the water as so measured does not and cannot
enter the municipal sewer system, then the Sewer Board or its agent may, upon
timely request of the customer, make adjustment to the sewer bill for the
portion of the sewer bill attributable to the portion shown not to have entered
the municipal sewer facilities. If the reason for the requested adjustment is a
break in a water fine, then the request of the customer must be accompanied by
proof of repairs. If the cause of the excess water usage is other than a leak
(e.g. watering, filling swimming pool or some other use) then the request must
be accompanied by such proof as is satisfactory to the Sewer Board or its
agent. A request shall be deemed timely only if made before the payment due
date for the bill on which adjustment is requested.
   (H)   By agreement between the city and West Shelby Water District (the
District), the District will furnish to the city the monthly water meter
readings of all customers of the District which are connected with the city
sewer facilities and the city's sewer bills to such users will be calculated
upon the basis of such water meter readings.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 6-17-2009; Am. Ord. 2011-01, passed 5-2-2011)
§ 50.05 USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Private sewage disposal.
      (1)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available the sewer shall be
connected to a private sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of
this section. Public sanitary sewers are deemed to be available if the
structure or the generating source is located in the city.
      (2)   (a)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all regulations of the City of Simpsonville,
the Shelby County Health Department, and state and federal agencies.
         (b)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system the owner shall first obtain a written permit issued by the Sewer Board
after approval of the system by the Shelby County Health Department, and the
state if required. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the city which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the Sewer
Board.
      (3)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Sewer
Board, the City of Simpsonville, the Shelby County Health Department, and the
state, if required. They shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction, and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Sewer Board when the work is ready for final inspection and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 48 hours
of the receipt of notice by the Sewer Board, Saturdays, Sundays and holidays
excepted.
      (4)   At such times as a public sewer becomes available to a property
served by a private sewage disposal system, a direct connection shall be made
to the public sewer at the property owner's expense in compliance with this
chapter and any septic tanks, cesspools or other private sewage disposal
facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material, or salvaged
and removed.
      (5)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the City of
Simpsonville.
      (6)   No requirement of this section shall be construed to interfere with
any additional requirements that may be imposed by the City of Simpsonville,
the Shelby County Health Department, or the state.
   (B)   Building sewers and connections.
      (1)   No person shall uncover, make any connection with or opening into,
use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first
obtaining a written permit from the Sewer Board.
      (2)   (a)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
            1.   For residential and commercial service, and
            2.   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
         (b)   In either case, the owner or his agent, shall make application
on a special form furnished by the City of Simpsonville. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent. Commercial shall be
deemed industrial when the character and quantity of waste requires.
      (3)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnity
the City of Simpsonville from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation or operation of the building
sewer. Fees for permit applications, inspections, and connection shall be as
required elsewhere in this chapter, or as established by the City of
Simpsonville in the future.
      (4)   A separate and independent sewer connection shall be provided for
every building on any particular lot, except where the primary structure is
residential and there are separate ancillary structures such as a workshop or
garage, then no separate connection shall be required for that ancillary
structure.
      (5)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings
only when they are found, on examination and test by the Sewer Board, to meet
all requirements of this chapter.
      (6)   In all buildings in which any sanitary facility drain is too low to
permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain
shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building sewer. Any
apparatus related thereto shall be operated and maintained by the property
owner.
      (7)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, basement wall
seepage or floor seepage, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or other
sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain
which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
      (8)   Floor, basement or crawl space drains which are lower than ground
surfaces surrounding the building shall not be connected to the building
sanitary sewer. No sanitary inlet which is lower than six inches above the top
of the lowest of the two adjacent public sanitary sewer manholes shall be
connected by direct drainage to the building sanitary sewer.
      (9)   The building sewer shall be connected into the public sewer, only
upon authorization and inspection by authorized agents of the Sewer Board. The
invert of the building sewer at such joint of connection with a wye saddle
shall be in the upper quadrant of the main line of the public sewer. A neat
workmanlike connection not extending past the inner surface of the public sewer
shall be made and the saddle made secure and watertight by encasement in
concrete, or with Epoxy cement specially prepared for this purpose. The first
length of the building sewer after the connection to the public sewer shall be
a wye-branch, with the branch laid on top pointing away from the public sewer,
temporarily plugged for use in smoke testing of the building sewer and with
clean outs at locations approved by the Superintendent.
      (10)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Sewer
Board when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the
public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or his or her representative.
      (11)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard on streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property satisfactory
to the City of Simpsonville. All OSHA requirements must be met. Wherever there
is a road cut, then there shall be a bond provided by the person or entity
making the road cut and in an amount established by the Sewer Board to secure
the cost of restoration and repair of the road cut. Additionally, there shall
be a minimum of a $2,000,000 liability insurance policy naming the City of
Simpsonville as an additional insured and protecting against property damage
and personal injury resulting from said road cut.
      (12)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a
building sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe,
jointing, testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the
requirements of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and
regulations of the City of Simpsonville, the Shelby County Health Department,
or the State. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof,
the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
ASTM and WPCF (American Society for Testing and Materials and Water Pollution
Control Federation) Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (C)   Use of the public sewers.
      (1)   No persons shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm
water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, sub-surface drainage or cellar
drainage of ground water origin, cooling water or unpolluted industrial process
water to any sanitary sewer. The Superintendent or his or her representative
shall have the right, at any time, to inspect the inside or outside of
buildings or smoke test for connections to building sewers and require
disconnection of any pipes carrying such water to the building sewer. No
sanitary drain sump, sump pump discharge by manual switchover of discharge
connection shall have a dual use for removal of such water. Facilities shall be
entirely separate.
      (2)   Except as permitted in §
50.06, no person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewer:
         (a)   Any gasoline, benzene, naptha, fuel oil, or other flammable,
combustible or explosive liquid, solid or gas.
         (b)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous liquids,
solids, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with
other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create
any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
         (c)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than (6.0) or greater
than (9.0), or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or
hazard to structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
         (d)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference
with the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to,
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc. either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
         (e)   Any water or waste that contains cyanide or cyanate.
      (3)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The
substances prohibited are:
         (a)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150 degrees
F (65 degrees C).
         (b)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils,
whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 ppm or containing substances which
may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 and 150 degrees F (0
and 65 degrees C).
         (c)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded to seven ml per
liter of solids capable of settling. The installation and operation of any
garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths horsepower (0.76 hp
metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the
Superintendent.
         (d)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling
wastes, or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
         (e)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc,
and similar objectionable or toxic substances, to such degree that exceeds the
limits which may be established by the Superintendent for such materials.
         (f)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations that will impair the quality of
the body of water receiving the treatment plant effluent.
         (g)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentrations as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
         (h)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of (9.0).
         (i)   Materials which exert or cause:
            1.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (350 ppm),
such as, but not limited to Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues; or
of dissolved solids, such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate.
            2.   Excessive discoloration, such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions.
            3.   Unusual BOD (300 ppm), chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine
requirements (50 ppm) exceeding the above guide lines or, when in the opinion
of the Superintendent, in such quantities that it interferes with the operation
of the sewer system or the sewer treatment plant.
            4.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
slugs as defined herein.
         (j)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
      (4)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristic enumerated in § 50.04 or which violate any provisions of this
chapter, and which in the judgment of the Superintendent, may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the Superintendent may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes.
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers.
         (c)   Require equalization or other control over the quantities and
rates of discharge; and/or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges.
         (e)   Terminate authorization to discharge to the city's sewerage
works.
         (f)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization
of waste flows, the plans, specifications and any other pertinent information
relating to the proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted
for the approval of the Simpsonville Sewer Board. No construction of such
facilities shall be commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing.
      (5)   Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any water
or waste, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at his or her expense.
      (6)   (a)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in
the opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling
of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable
wastes, sand and other harmful ingredients, except that such interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors
shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent, and shall be
located so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
         (b)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperatures.
They shall be of substantial construction, watertight and equipped with easily
removable covers, which, when bolted in place shall be gastight and watertight.
      (7)   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner at his expense, in continuously efficient operation at
all times.
      (8)   Within three months from the effective date of this chapter, and on
a quarterly basis thereafter, all users of the sewerage system who discharge
industrial wastes to the public sewers, shall file with the Superintendent an
industrial waste characterization, based on a 24-hour survey sampling which
shall furnish pertinent data inclusive of quantity and rate of flow and an
analysis of the waste discharge to the sewage works. Similarly, any person
desiring to make a new connection to the sewage works for the purpose of
discharging industrial wastes to the public sewers, shall file with the
Superintendent an industrial waste characterization which shall furnish
pertinent or predicted data inclusive of flow rate and an analysis of the
industrial waste to be discharged into the sewerage system. Thereafter, such
waste characterizations based on 24-hour survey samples shall be filled
quarterly with the Superintendent.
      (9)   (a)   The owner of any property served by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole in the building
sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such
manhole shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed in
accordance with plans approved by the Superintendent. The manhole shall be
installed by the owner at his expense and shall be maintained by him so as to
be safe and accessible at all times.
         (b)   When in the opinion of the Superintendent, based upon his review
of the wastewater questionnaire or upon requirements of a state or federal
regulation, an automatic sampling device is needed for taking continuous
samples of the discharge water, such a device shall be furnished and installed
at the owner's expense in the control manhole or other location suitable to the
Superintendent. Samples from such device shall be tested for pollutants as
determined by the Superintendent in accordance with division (C)(10) below at
the owner's expense by either an independent laboratory or the City of
Simpsonville at the city's treatment facility.
      (10)   All measurements, tests, and analysis of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health
Association and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon
suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special
manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the
nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer in connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The
particular analysis involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all
outfalls of a premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should
be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analysis are
obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH's are determined
from periodic grab samples.)
      (11)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the City of
Simpsonville and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual
strength or character may be accepted by the City of Simpsonville for
treatment, subject to the payment therefore by the industrial concern.
   (D)   Abutting owners must connect to sewer lines. Sewer connection is
mandatory for all structures and uses generating waste water unless sewer
connection is not available. Sewer services are deemed to be available if the
structure or use generating waste water is within the city.
   (E)   Sewer connections required for new buildings. Except as provided
elsewhere in this chapter, all architects, contractors, builders, or other
persons, before commencing the erection of any building or other improvement
capable of emitting liquid wastes or sewage, on any lot or parcel of land shall
before erecting or installing such building or improvement, exhibit to the
governing body of the city, or to such official as the governing body may
designate, satisfactory evidence that a means has been provided or will be
provided for connecting the sanitary sewage drain pipes from such building or
other improvement with such sewer collection line. No storm water or other
surface or sub-surface water shall be otherwise introduced into the sewer
system.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 6-17-2009)
§ 50.06 POLLUTANT DISCHARGE LIMITS AND PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General conditions. The following described substances, materials,
waters or wastes shall be limited in discharges to municipal systems to
concentration or quantities which: will not harm either the sewers, wastewater
treatment process or equipment, will maintain and protect water quality in the
receiving stream, and will not otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property,
or constitute a nuisance. The Superintendent may set additional limitations or
limitations more stringent than those established in the provisions below if in
his or her opinion more severe limitations are necessary to meet the above
objectives. Further, the Superintendent may grant waivers of the limits set by
this section when determined by him or her to be in the best interest of the
community and the sewer system. In forming his or her opinion as to the
acceptability of a discharge, the Superintendent shall give consideration to
such factors as the quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and
velocities in the sewers, the wastewater treatment process employed, capacity
of the wastewater treatment plant, and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   Restricted discharges.
      (1)   Wastewater containing more that 25 milligrams per liter of
petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils, or products of mineral oil
origin.
      (2)   Wastewater containing floatable oils, fat, or grease, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter (100mg/l) or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures 32 -
150 degrees F (0 - 65 degrees C).
      (3)   Any food waste that has not been properly shredded. Food waste
grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, motels, institutions,
restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments, or similar places where food
waste originates from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of
consumption on the premises or when served by caterers. Paper products are
prohibited from being discharged into the sewer system.
      (4)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants which: injure or
interfere with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans
or animals, causes the city to violate the terms of its KPDES permit, prevents
the use of acceptable sludge disposal methods, or exceed a limitation set forth
in a categorical pretreatment standard.
      (5)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations.
      (6)   Any water or wastes which by interaction with other water or wastes
in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended solids
which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition deleterious
to structures and treatment processes.
      (7)   Any wastewater with objectionable color which cannot be removed to
an acceptable level within the operation of the wastewater treatment process
but in no case, wastewater with a color that exceeds 250 ADMI units.
      (8)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed to the
extent required by the city's NPDES/KPDES permit.
      (9)   Any waste(s) or wastewater(s) classified as a hazardous waste by
the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) or any other applicable
federal, state or local regulation without a 60-day prior notification of such
discharge to the Superintendent. This notification must include the name of the
hazardous waste, the EPA hazardous waste number, type of discharge, volume/mass
of discharge and time of occurrence(s). The Superintendent may prohibit or
condition the discharge(s) at any time.
      (10)   Any water or wastes which have characteristics based on a 24-hour
composite sample, grab or a shorter period composite sample, if more
representative, that exceed the following normal maximum domestic wastewater
parameter concentrations.
 
Parameter Maximum Allowable Concentrations
BOD       250 mg/l
COD       350 mg/l
TSS       250 mg/l
NH3-N     40 mg/l
 
      (11)   The following limitations are established for characteristics of
any wastewaters to be discharged into the municipal sewer system. All
significant commercial/industrial users must comply with these limitations
where they are more stringent than applicable state and/or federal regulations.
Parameter Maximum Daily Concentration (mg/l)
Parameter         Maximum Daily Concentration (mg/l)
Arsenic           0.10
Cadmium           0.01
Chromium          0.596
Copper            0.248
Cyanide, Amenable 0.10
Lead              0.05
Mercury           0.00025
Nickel            0.05
Silver            0.331
Zinc              0.28
 
      (12)   The city has received authority through the U.S. EPA and state
statutes to enforce the requirements of 40 CFR Subchapter N, 40 CFR 403, and 40
CFR Part 35. All users shall comply with the requirements of those regulations.
      (C)   Dilution of wastewater discharge. No user shall ever increase the
use of process water or, in any way, attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial
or complete substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance with the
limitations contained in the federal categorical pretreatment standards, or in
any pollutant specific limitation developed by the city or state.
      (D)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors. Grease, oil, and sand
interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the Superintendent, they
are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing floatable
grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful
ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for private
living quarters or dwelling units. Further, all restaurants, carry-out food
establishments and other commercial cooking facilities shall install grease
traps (interceptors). All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved
by the Superintendent and shall be located so as to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these
interceptors the owner(s) shall be responsible for the proper removal and
disposal by appropriate means of the captured material and shall maintain
records of the dates, identity of hauler and means of disposal. The city
requires hauling of the collected materials to be done by currently licensed
waste disposal firms. Interceptors shall also comply with applicable
regulations of the County Health Department.
   (E)   Special industrial pretreatment requirements.
      (1)   Pursuant to the requirements imposed on publicly owned wastewater
treatment works by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972
and later amendments, all pretreatment standards promulgated by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency for new and existing industrial dischargers to
public sewer systems are hereby made a part of this chapter. Any industrial
waste discharge which violates these EPA pretreatment standards shall be in
violation of this chapter.
      (2)   Where pretreatment by flow equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, the industry shall be solely responsible for
the continued maintenance to assure satisfactory and effective operation of
such facilities and at their expense.
   (F)   Protection from accidental and slug discharges.
      (1)   (a)   Each significant commercial/industrial user shall provide
protection from accidental and/or slug discharges of prohibited materials or
other substances regulated by this chapter which adversely affects the POTW.
Facilities to prevent accidental and/or slug discharges of prohibited materials
shall be provided and maintained at the owner or user's own cost and expense.
Periodically, the Superintendent will determine whether each commercial/
industrial user needs to develop or update a plan to control accidental or slug
discharges. If the Superintendent determines that an accidental/ slug control
plan or revision is necessary, the plan shall contain the following:
            1.   Description of discharge practices;
            2.   Description of stored chemicals;
            3.   Procedures for notifying the POTW;
            4.   Prevention procedures for spills.
         (b)   In the case of all possible or actual accidental and/or slug
discharges, it is the responsibility of the user to immediately telephone and
notify the Superintendent and Shelby County Dispatch. Said notification shall
be in accord with standard operating procedures. The notification shall include
location of discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, and corrective
actions.
      (2)   Written notice. Within five days following an accidental discharge,
the user shall submit to the Superintendent a detailed written report
describing the cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user
to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the
user of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as
a result of damage to the POTW, fish kills, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, civil
penalties, or other liability which may be imposed by this section, the
enforcement response plan or other applicable law.
      (3)   Notice to employees. A notice shall be permanently posted on the
user's bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees whom to call
in the event of a dangerous discharge. Employers shall insure that all
employees who may cause or suffer such a dangerous discharge to occur are
advised of the emergency notification procedure.
   (G)   State requirements. State requirements and limitations on discharges
shall apply in any case where they are more stringent than federal requirements
and limitations or those in this chapter.
   (H)   City's right of revision. The city reserves the right to establish
more stringent limitations, or requirements on discharges to the POTW if deemed
necessary to comply with the objectives presented in this chapter.
   (I)   Federal categorical pretreatment standards. Upon the promulgation of
federal categorical pretreatment standards for a particular industrial
subcategory, the federal standard, if more stringent than limitations imposed
under this chapter for sources in that subcategory, shall immediately supersede
the limitations imposed under this chapter.
   (J)   Industrial. Industrial shall be interpreted to include commercial when
the discharge would otherwise invoke the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 6-17-2009)
§ 50.07 PRETREATMENT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Wastewater discharges. It shall be unlawful to discharge to the POTW
any wastewater except as authorized by the city in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. Any agency, nondomestic user, and/or commercial/
industry outside the jurisdiction of the city that desires to contribute
wastewater to the POTW must execute (through and authorized representative) an
interjurisdictional agreement, whereby the agency and/or industry agrees to be
regulated by all provisions of this chapter and state and federal regulations.
A commercial/industrial user permit may then be issued by the Superintendent in
accordance with division (B) below.
   (B)   Industrial user discharge permits.
      (1)   General.  All significant commercial/industrial users proposing to
connect to or to contribute to the POTW shall obtain an industrial user permit/
commercial user permit before connecting to or contributing to the POTW.
      (2)   Permit application.  Users required to obtain an industrial user
permit/commercial user permit shall complete and file with the city, an
application in the form prescribed by the city, and accompanied by a permit
fee. New users shall apply at least 90 days prior to connecting to or
contributing to the POTW. Existing permit holder shall apply no later than 60
days prior to expiration of permit. In support of the application, the user
shall submit, in units and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following
information:
         (a)   Name, address, and location if different from the address;
         (b)   SIC number(s) according to the Standard Industrial
Classification Manual, United States Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
         (c)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics as determined by an
analytical laboratory acceptable to the city; sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with procedures established by the EPA pursuant to
Section 304(g) of the Act and contained in 40 CFR, Part 136, as amended:
         (d)   Time and duration of contribution;
         (e)   Average daily and 30 minute peak wastewater flow rates,
including daily, monthly and seasonal variations if any;
         (f)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and
details to show all sewers, sewer connections, and appurtenances by the size,
location and elevation;
         (g)   Material safety data sheets and inventory for hazardous
substances/materials;
         (h)   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on
the premises including all materials which are or could be discharged;
         (i)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in
the discharge which are limited by the city, state or federal pretreatment
standards, and a statement regarding whether the pretreatment standards are
being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional pretreatment is
required for the user to meet applicable pretreatment standards;
         (j)   1.   If additional pretreatment will be required to meet the
pretreatment standards, the user shall adopt the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this
schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for the
applicable pretreatment standards;
            2.   The following conditions shall apply to this schedule:
               a.   The schedule must be acceptable to the city.
               b.   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the
form of dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to
the construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user
to meet the applicable pretreatment standards.
               c.   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule
and the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to
the Superintendent including, as a minimum, whether it complied with the
increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which it
expects to comply with this increment of progress and the reason for delay, and
the steps being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule
established.
         (k)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processed, and
the rate of production;
         (l)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
         (m)   Number of employees, and hours of operation of plant and
proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system;
         (n)   Any other information as may be deemed by the city to be
necessary to evaluate the permit application;
         (o)   A copy of the industry's written environmental control program,
comparable document, or policy.
      (3)   Issuance. The city shall evaluate the data furnished by the user
and may require additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the
data furnished, the Superintendent or his or her designee may issue an
industrial wastewater discharge permit subject to terms and conditions provided
herein.
   (C)   Permit modifications. Within nine months of the promulgation of a
national categorical pretreatment standards, the commercial/industrial
wastewater discharge permit of users subject to such standards shall be revised
to require compliance with such standards within the time frame prescribed by
such standards. Where a user, subject to national categorical pretreatment
standards, has not previously submitted an application for a commercial/
industrial wastewater discharge permit as required, the user shall apply for a
commercial/industrial wastewater discharge permit within 90 days after the
promulgation of the applicable national categorical pretreatment standards. In
addition, the user with an existing commercial/industrial wastewater discharge
permit shall submit, to the Superintendent within 90 days after the
promulgation of an applicable federal categorical pretreatment standard, the
information required by this chapter.
   (D)   Permit conditions. Commercial/industrial wastewater discharge permits
shall be expressly subject to all provisions of this chapter and all other
applicable regulations, user charges and fees established by the city. Permits
may contain the following:
      (1)   The unit surcharges or schedule of other charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to a community sewer;
      (2)   Limits on the average and/or maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
      (3)   Limits on average and/or maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
      (4)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
      (5)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
location; frequency of sampling; number, type and standards for tests; and
reporting schedule;
      (6)   Compliance schedules;
      (7)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports;
      (8)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining, for a minimum of three
years, all plant records relating to pretreatment and/or wastewater discharge
as specified by the city, and affording city access thereto as required by 40
CFR 403.12(o)(2); and other federal, state and local regulations;
      (9)   Requirements for notification of the city of any new introduction
of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character
of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the wastewater treatment
system;
      (10)   Requirements for notification of slug discharges;
      (11)   The permit may require the user to reimburse the city for all
expenses related to monitoring, sampling and testing performed at the direction
of the Superintendent and deemed necessary by the city to verify that the user
is in compliance with the said permit;
      (12)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the city to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
   (E)   Discharge limits.  
      (1)   Where an effluent from a categorical industrial process(es) is
mixed prior to treatment with wastewater other than that generated by the
regulated process, fixed alternative discharge limits may be derived for the
discharge permit by the Superintendent. These alternative limits shall be
applied to the mixed effluent and shall be calculated using the combined
wastestream formula and/or flow-weighted average formula as defined in §
50.01.
      (2)   Where the effluent limits in a categorical pretreatment standard
are expressed only in terms of mass of pollutants per unit of production
(production-based standard), the Superintendent may convert the limits to
equivalent limitations expressed either as mass of pollutant discharged per day
or of effluent concentration for purposes of calculating effluent permit
limitations applicable to the permittee. The permittee shall be subject to all
permit limits calculated in this manner under 40 CFR 403.6(c) and must fully
comply with these alternative limits.
      (3)   All categorical users subject to production-based standards must
report production rates annually so that alternative permit limits can be
calculated if necessary. The categorical user must notify the Superintendent 30
days in advance of any major change in production levels that will affect the
limits for the discharge permit.
   (F)   Permit duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed five years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year
or may be stated to expire on a specific date. The user shall apply for permit
reissuance a minimum of 60 days prior to the expiration of the user's existing
permit. The terms and conditions of the permit may be subject to modification
by the city during the term of the permit. The user shall be informed of any
proposed changes in their permit at least 30 days prior to the effective date
of change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a
reasonable time schedule for compliance.
   (G)   Permit transfer. Commercial/industrial user permits are issued to a
specific user for a specific operation. An industrial user permit shall not be
reassigned or transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises,
or a new or changed operation without a 30-day prior notification to the
Superintendent and provision of a copy of the existing permit to the new owner.
The Superintendent may deny the transfer of the permit if it is deemed
necessary.
   (H)   Compliance data reporting. Within 90 days following the date for final
compliance with applicable categorical pretreatment standards or, in the case
of a new user, following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into
the POTW, any user subject to federal categorical pretreatment standards and
requirements shall submit, to the Superintendent, a report indicating the
nature and concentration of all pollutants in the discharge from the regulated
process which are limited by categorical pretreatment standards and
requirements and the average and maximum daily flow for these process units in
the user's facility which are limited by such categorical standards and
requirements. The report shall state whether the applicable categorical
pretreatment standards and requirements are being met on a consistent basis
and, if not, what additional pretreatment and time schedule is necessary to
bring the user into compliance with the applicable categorical pretreatment
standards or requirements. This statement shall be signed by an authorized
representative of the user.
   (I)   Periodic compliance reports.
      (1)   All significant commercial/industrial users shall submit, to the
Superintendent, every three months (on dates specified in the industrial user
permit) unless required more frequently by the permit, a report indicating, at
a minimum, the nature and concentration, of pollutants in the effluent which
are limited by such pretreatment standards or discharge permit. In addition,
this report shall include a record of all daily flows which during the
reporting period exceeded the average daily flow. At the discretion of the
Superintendent and in consideration of such factors as local high or low flow
rates, holidays, budget cycles, etc., the Superintendent may agree to alter the
months during which the above reports are to be submitted.
      (2)   All analyses shall be performed by a laboratory acceptable to the
city. Analytical procedures shall be in accordance with procedures established
by the U.S. EPA Administrator pursuant to Section 304(g) if the Act and
contained in 40 CFR, Part 136 and amendments thereto and 40 CFR 261 or with any
other test procedures approved by the U.S. EPA Administrator. Sampling shall be
performed in accordance with the techniques approved by the U.S. EPA
Administrator.
      (3)   Where 40 CFR, Part 136 does not include a sampling or analytical
technique for the pollutant(s) in question, sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with the procedures set forth in the EPA publication
Sampling and Analysis Procedures for Screening of Industrial Effluents for
Priority Pollutants, April 1977, and amendments thereto, or with any other
sampling and analytical procedures approved by the U.S. EPA Administrator.
      (4)   A baseline monitoring report (BMR) must be submitted to the
Superintendent by all categorical industrial users at least 90 days prior to
initiation of discharge to the sanitary sewer. The BMR must contain, at a
minimum, the following:
         (a)   Production data: a process description, SIC code number, raw
materials used, chemicals used, final product, pretreatment industrial category
(if applicable), and a schematic which indicates points of discharge to the
sewer system.
         (b)   Identifying information to include name, address of facility,
owner(s), contact person and any other permits held by the facility.
         (c)   Wastewater characteristics: total plant flow, types of
discharges, average and maximum flows from each process.
         (d)   Nature/concentration of pollutants: analytical results for all
pollutants regulated by this chapter and/or any applicable federal pretreatment
standard and sample type and location. All analyses must conform with 40 CFR,
Part 136 and amendments thereto.
         (e)   Information concerning any pretreatment equipment used to treat
the facility's discharge.
      (5)   New sources shall give estimates of the information requested in
divisions (4)(c) and (d) above, but at no time shall a new source commence
discharge(s) to the public sewer of substances that do not meet provisions of
this chapter. All new sources must be in compliance with all provisions of this
chapter, state and federal pretreatment regulations prior to commencement of
discharge to the public sewer.
   (J)   Permit violations.
      (1)   All significant commercial/industrial users must notify the
Superintendent within 24 hours of first becoming aware of a permit violation.
This notification shall include the date of violation, the parameter violated
and the amount in exceedance.
      (2)   The user shall immediately repeat the sampling and analysis of the
parameter(s) in question and submit the results to the Superintendent within 30
days after becoming aware of the violation. Exception to this regulation is
only if the city performs the sampling within the same time period for the same
parameter(s) in question.
      (3)   Compliance with the terms of an industrial user permit shall be
deemed in compliance with the terms of this chapter.
   (K)   Monitoring.
      (1)   (a)   The city shall require significant users to provide and
operate, at the user's own expense, monitoring facilities and equipment
necessary to allow inspection, sampling, and flow measurement of the building
sewer and/or internal drainage system. The monitoring facility should normally
be situated on the user's premises, but the city may, when such a location
would be impractical or cause undue hardship on the user, allow the facility to
be constructed in a public right-of-way. The Superintendent shall review and
approve the location, plans, and specifications for such monitoring facilities
and may require them to be constructed to provide for the separate monitoring
and sampling of industrial waste and sanitary sewage flows.
         (b)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or
facility to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis.
The facility shall be designed and maintained in a manner such that the safety
of city and industrial personnel shall be foremost. The facility, sampling, and
measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a proper operating
condition at the expense of the user.
         (c)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling
and monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the city's
requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Construction shall be completed within 90 days following
approval of the location, plans and specifications.
      (2)   All sampling analysis done in accordance with approved Kentucky
Division of Water and federal EPA procedures by the commercial/industrial user
during a reporting period shall be submitted to the Superintendent regardless
of whether or not that analysis was required by the commercial/ industrial
user's discharge permit.
      (3)   The industrial user must receive the approval of the Superintendent
before changing the sampling point and/or monitoring facilities to be used in
all required sampling.
   (L)   Inspection and sampling.
      (1)   The city shall inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain
whether the purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being
complied with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the city or their representative ready access at all
reasonable times to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection,
sampling, copying records, records examination or in the performance of any of
their duties.
      (2)   The city, approval authority, Kentucky Division of Water and EPA
shall have the right to set up on the user's property such devices as are
necessary to conduct sampling, inspection, compliance monitoring and/or
metering operations. Where a user has security measures in force which would
require proper identification and clearance before entry onto their premises,
the user shall make the necessary arrangements with their security guards so
that upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the city,
approval authority, Kentucky Division of Water, and EPA will be permitted to
enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their specific
responsibilities.
   (M)   Pretreatment. All significant industrial users shall provide necessary
wastewater treatment as required to comply with this chapter and achieve
compliance with any applicable federal, state and local categorical
pretreatment standards within the time limitations as specified by the federal
pretreatment regulations. The city may require the development of a compliance
schedule for installation of pretreatment technology and/or equipment by any
industrial user that cannot meet discharge limits required by this chapter. Any
facilities required to pretreat wastewater to a level required by this chapter
shall be provided, operated and maintained at the user's expense. Detailed
plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be
submitted to the city for review, and shall be acceptable to the city before
construction of the facility. The review of such plans and operating procedures
will in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the
facility as necessary to produce an effluent that complies with the provisions
of this chapter. Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or
method of operations shall be reported to and be acceptable to the city prior
to the user's initiation of the changes.
   (N)   Annual publication. The city may annually publish in its largest daily
newspaper a list of significant users which were in significant noncompliance
with any pretreatment requirements or standards. The notification may also
summarize any enforcement actions taken against the user(s) during the same 12
months.
   (O)   Significant non-compliance. A user is defined as being in significant
noncompliance when it commits one or more of the following conditions:
      (1)   Causes imminent endangerment to human health or the environment or
results in the exercise of emergency authority;
      (2)   Involves failure to report noncompliance accurately;
      (3)   Results in a chronic violation defined here as 66% or more of all
measurements taken during a six-month period that exceed (by any magnitude) the
daily maximum limit or the monthly average limit for the same pollutant
parameter;
      (4)   Results in a technical review criteria (TRC) violation defined here
as 33% or more of all measurements for each pollutant parameter taken during a
six-month period that equal or exceed the product of the daily maximum limit or
the average limit multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC=1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats,
and oil and grease and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH); provided, for
good cause, the Superintendent may require or allow a higher or lower standard.
      (5)   Any violation of a pretreatment effluent limit that the control
authority determines has caused, alone or on combination with other discharges,
interference or pass through or has endangered the health of the POTW personnel
or the public;
      (6)   Any discharge causing imminent endangerment to human health/welfare
or to the environment or resulting in the POTW's use of its emergency authority
to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (7)   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, failure to comply
with schedule milestones for starting or completing construction or attaining
final compliance by 90 days or more after the schedule date;
      (8)   Failure to provide required reports within 30 days of the due date;
      (9)   Any violation or group of violations which the control authority
determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local
pretreatment program.
   (P)   Confidential information.
      (1)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports,
questionnaires, permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from
inspections shall be available to the public or other governmental agency
without restriction unless the user specifically requests in writing and is
able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the city that the release of such
information would divulge information, processes, or methods of production
entitled to protection as trade secrets of the user.
      (2)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available to all governmental agencies for uses related to this ordinance, the
NPDES/KPDES permit, sludge disposal system permit and/or the pretreatment
programs upon request. Such portions of a report shall be available for use by
the state or any state agency injudicial review or enforcement proceedings
involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and
characteristics shall not be recognized as confidential information and shall
be available to the public without restriction.
   (Q)   Signatory requirements. All applications, reports or information
submitted to the city shall be signed and certified.
      (1)   All permit applications shall be signed:
         (a)   For a corporation: by a principal executive officer;
         (b)   For a partnership or sole proprietorship: by a general partner
or the proprietor, respectively.
      (2)   All other correspondence, reports and self-monitoring reports shall
be signed by a person described above or by a duly authorized representative of
that person. A person is a duly authorized representative only if:
         (a)   The authorization is made in writing by a person described
above;
         (b)   The authorization specifies either an individual or a position
having facility or activity such as the position of plant manger,
superintendent or position of equivalent responsibility.
      (3)   Certification. Any person signing a document under this section
shall make the following certification:
         "I certify under penalty of law that I am familiar with the
information contained in this report and its attachments and that to the best
of my knowledge and belief such information is true, complete and accurate."
   (R)   Fees associated with POTW.
      (1)   Purpose. This section provides for the recovery of costs from users
of the POTW for the implementation of the program established herein.
      (2)   Charges and fees.  
         (a)   Users of the POTW shall pay to the city its actual costs
associated with:
            1.   A pro-rated share of the costs of setting up and operating the
city's pretreatment program;
            2.   Costs for monitoring, inspections and surveillance;
            3.   Costs for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and
construction;
            4.   Cost of application processing;
            5.   Costs for filing appeals;
            6.   Costs for consistent removal by the POTW of excessive strength
conventional pollutants;
            7.   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein may be set as appropriate.
         (b)   These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this chapter
and are separate from all other fees chargeable by the city.
   (S)   Industrial. Industrial shall be interpreted to include commercial when
discharge would otherwise invoke the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed-17-2009)
§ 50.08 CONSTRUCTION/DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   In addition to all other requirements set forth in either city
ordinance or city regulation, any person, firm, corporation or other legal
entity seeking to connect sewer collection lines for any new subdivision or
other development to the city sewer system shall meet the following
requirements.
         (a)   The City of Simpsonville Sewer Board shall be provided a pre-
construction and an "as-built" plan for the system for which acceptance and
dedication is sought. Said "as-built" plans shall include drawings which
reflect the location of all taps by reference to the distance from an
identifiable manhole and also the distance of the tap from the front or back
property line of each lot.
         (b)   The entire system shall be vacuum and deflection tested to
assure proper seal and to assure that the pipe has not been obstructed or
excessively compacted by top fill so as to cause it to lose round.
         (c)   All pressure mains shall be hydrolically tested.
         (d)   No sewer lines shall be placed in streets or public ways.
         (e)   No manholes shall be located in any paved area (street or
driveway).
         (f)   All manholes shall have liners approved by the Sewer Board.
         (g)   No portion of the sewer collection line shall be backfilled
until that portion of the system has been inspected and approved by the Sewer
Superintendent.
         (h)   All pump stations shall have access by way of a paved driveway
paved with not less than a six-inch base and two inches of asphalt.
         (i)   All pump stations shall be surrounded by a fence constructed of
wood or some other material acceptable to the city sewer board to a height not
less than eight feet.
      (2)   No connection shall be made to the city sewer system and no
connection shall be made from any customer to the collection system until there
has been compliance with every aspect of this chapter. Further, the Sewer Board
office shall not issue a statement authorizing issuance of a building permit
until there has been compliance with all aspects hereof.
   (B)   Lift station regulation. It is the policy of the City of Simpsonville
to minimize the number of lift stations that are required in the system. In
order to accomplish this, gravity flow systems will be utilized whenever
practical. Further, the city will encourage consolidation of existing pump
station and pump station use when feasible.
      (1)   Any developer desiring to develop land and to utilize the sewer
collection and treatment system of the City of Simpsonville and which
development or project requires the utilization of a sewer lift station or lift
stations shall meet each of the following requirementst:
         (a)   Any sewer lift station shall be constructed at the sole expense
of the developer.
         (b)   Any sewer lift station shall be constructed in a manner that
meets all requirements of the Sewer Board and the Sewer Board must approve
specifications tendered by such developer before the City of Simpsonville Sewer
Board signs and approves such plans or plat.
         (c)   Prior to commencement of construction, the developer shall
provide plan/plat of the development to the Sewer Board with attached sheets
stating the specifications for the equipment (i.e. brand, model, capacity,
etc.) and such other information as may be requested by the Sewer Board. Such
plan and specifications shall be subject to approval of the Sewer Board prior
to commencement of construction.
         (d)   The developer shall provide documentation that all manufacturers
and installers of such sewer lift station provide a minimum one-year warranty
on materials and workmanship with the Sewer Board being an additional named
beneficiary of the warranty.
         (e)   The developer requesting sewer lift station approval shall be
subject to lift station capacity charge for each sewer lift station approved
payable at or before the time of the signing/approval by the Sewer Board of the
construction plat/plan.
         (f)   The developer shall be responsible for and shall post a revenue
assurance bond/deposit in the minimum amount of $100,000 or an amount equal to
the estimated cost of construction of the station or stations (whichever amount
is greater) with such surety as is approved by the Sewer Board at or prior to
the signing of the construction plat/plan which bond shall assure completion of
the lift station(s) in conformity with the plans and upon which the Sewer Board
may rely to complete said lift station/stations in conformity with the plans
and specifications if developer fails to timely complete.
      (2)   (a)   In addition to all other charges required to be paid by the
developer proposing construction of the lift station, such developer shall be
responsible for additional costs for maintenance, upkeep, replacement parts and
service to said lift station to the extent that revenues from the customers
serviced by said facility are not sufficient to compensate the sewer board for
the costs. In determining the costs associated with operation, maintenance and
etc. of the lift station, the Sewer Board shall consider the following factors:
employee cost, utilities, mileage, depreciation, insurance, maintenance, parts
and any other appropriate cost contributors.
         (b)   Such costs will not be assessed during the first year after
construction and acceptance of the lift station into the system. However, if at
the end of the second year of construction start-up the customers serviced by
said sewer lift station do not generate revenue sufficient to pay 100% of the
costs associated therewith (as determined in accordance with the above
guidelines) the developer or its successor in interest shall be required to
compensate the Sewer Board annually for any short fall plus 10% for loss in
revenue for a time period thereafter up to 13 years. Expenses so assessed shall
be paid not less frequently than annually and shall be determined by taking the
difference between the costs (utilizing the above chart) and the actual revenue
realized and plus 10% of such difference. The City of Simpsonville shall be
entitled to retain a lien on any lots owned by the developer or the developer's
successor in order to enforce the provisions of this division.
      (3)   In the sole discretion of the Sewer Board, variances from this
chapter may be granted where it is determined that the benefits derived by the
citizens of the City of Simpsonville so warrant.
   (C)   Flow preventers. All new construction shall include flow preventers
which shall be maintained at the owner's expense.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 6-17-2009)
§ 50.09 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Priority to services within city limits. Henceforth no property
(commercial, residential, industrial or other) shall be provided with sewer
collection and treatment by the City of Simpsonville sewer system unless said
property be currently located within the corporate limits of the City of
Simpsonville, Kentucky or first annexed therein. Provided, however, excepted
from this provision are the following:
      (1)   The property known as Whitney Young is currently sewered by its own
separate treatment facility and it is determined that it would be in the best
interest of the city that said facility connect to the City of Simpsonville and
it is excepted. A contract has been executed between said facility and the city
and said facility shall be accepted into the system pursuant to said contract.
      (2)   There currently exists a rest area on Interstate 64 which is
connected to the City of Simpsonville treatment facility and which is excepted
herefrom.
      (3)   The City Commission may contract with a property owner and/or
developer on such financial and non-financial terms as may be in the best
interest of the city to permit connection and treatment of properties located
outside the City of Simpsonville and the city reserves the right to further
make exception when it is deemed to be in the best interest of the city.
Provided, however, any such discretionary exception shall be on the following
terms:
         (a)   An impact study must be provided by an engineer of the city's
choice at the property owner's expense containing such specific information as
may be required by the City Commission.
         (b)   Property owners must execute consents to annexation exercisable
at the city's discretion and /or enter into an agreement to make payments to
the city in lieu of occupational tax and ad valorem taxes enforceable against
the owner and its heirs, successors and assigns for the period prior to
annexation.
   (B)   Cost of connections.  All extensions from a sewage collection line for
a sewer connection to such premises, or construction of sewer facilities for
developments that are to be connected to the Simpsonville municipal sewer,
shall be at the sole expense of the owner/developer or occupant, and shall
comply with all the requirements of Simpsonville.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 6-17-2009)
§ 50.10 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City of
Simpsonville bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted
to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation
measurement, sampling, and testing to assure compliance with the provisions of
this chapter. The Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical,
oil, refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point having a
direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways
or facilities for waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
above, the Superintendent or authorized employees of the City of Simpsonville
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the City
of Simpsonville employees and the City of Simpsonville shall indemnify the
company against loss or damage to its property by City of Simpsonville
employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions.
   (C)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City of
Simpsonville, bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted
to enter all private properties through which the City of Simpsonville holds a
duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if
any, on said easement, shall be done in accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 6-17-2009)
§ 50.11 ENTERPRISE INCENTIVE PROGRAM.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to provide for a rebate of
all or a portion of the sewer tap on and capacity charges as established by
Ordinance No. 2009-006 under certain identified circumstances. Rebates made
pursuant to this section will be for the purpose of encouraging commercial and/
or industrial development in the city and will be made only when the city can
identify tangible improvements to the infrastructure of the existing sanitary
sewer collection and treatment system derivative from the said development and
directly related thereto.
   (B)   Rebate plan/criteria. Should the city determine that a specific
commercial and/or industrial development will result in enhanced infrastructure
development to the city’s sewer collection and/or treatment facility, then the
city may grant a rebate of tap on and/or capacity charges otherwise due from
such development to the city. The rebate available pursuant to this section
shall not exceed the tap on and capacity charges due from such entities at the
time of permit issuance for connection as adjusted at the end of the first year
as provided for in Ordinance No. 2009-006. The enhanced infrastructure
contemplated by this section and which may qualify for rebate consideration is
that which will inure to the city as a whole and not solely to the benefit of
the immediate development. Further, this section contemplates benefits being
derived from expenditures of the developer or on the developer’s behalf as a
result of funding from sources other than the city such as grants. Examples of
infrastructure improvements which may qualify for a rebate (which examples are
not all inclusive) are:
      (1)   Construction of sewer lift station.
      (2)   Expansion of sewer main.
      (3)   Road or railroad boars.
      (4)   Other similar infrastructure expenditures that inure to the public
good.
   (C)   Determination of qualification and amount of incentive. Should an
entity wish a seek rebate pursuant to the terms of this incentive program, then
said entity shall make application to the Mayor of the City of Simpsonville,
Kentucky who shall evaluate said request and make recommendation to the
Simpsonville City Commission. The Simpsonville City Commission may, in its sole
discretion, accept or reject any application in whole or in part. However, the
amount of any incentive rebate shall not exceed the value of the infrastructure
improvement to the city based on the cost of construction thereof. Further, no
incentive rebate shall exceed the tap on and capacity charges otherwise
received from the subject development and as adjusted on the one year
anniversary pursuant to city Ordinance No. 2009-006.
   (D)   Time of rebate. Any entity seeking rebate pursuant to this section
shall be required to pay the full tap on and capacity charge as otherwise
required by ordinance. No rebate shall be made to said entity until the
infrastructure improvement upon which said rebate is made has been completed to
the satisfaction of the city and until proof has been provided to the city that
said infrastructure improvement has been fully paid for and that no liens may
be filed related thereto. Provided, however, the delay in making rebate shall
not be required if the infrastructure improvement is being made by the city
with grant funds made available as a result of the subject development.
   (E)   Invalidity of any provision. Should any portion of this ordinance be
deemed to be invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, then such portions
of this ordinance as are not deemed invalid shall survive. This section shall
be interpreted item by item. No entity anticipating a rebate hereunder shall
have recourse against the city should the city be unable to fulfill its
commitments hereunder as a result of a decision by any court. Further, any
rebate made pursuant hereto which is later determined illegal by any court
shall be repaid by the recipient to the city.
   (F)   Contractual documents. Any entity receiving a favorable review on its
application for rebate, shall enter into a contractual agreement with the City
of Simpsonville, Kentucky incorporating the terms of this section and such
other provisions as the City of Simpsonville deems appropriate related to said
rebate.
(Ord. 2013-001, passed 2-6-2013)
§ 50.12 SEWER SECURITY DEPOSIT FEES.
   (A)   Each sewer customer, other than a property owner customer, shall, at
the commencement of receiving service, pay a deposit to the city. This deposit
shall be held to secure further payments as required. Said deposit shall be
applied to outstanding balances in case of default, or shall be refunded, if
unapplied, upon voluntary termination of service by the customer. Should there
be an existing deposit held by the Simpsonville Sewer System, which has been
unapplied to a delinquent bill and said deposit remaining is in an amount less
than the amount of the deposit, then a customer seeking to restore the
connection after disconnection shall be required to pay a sum to restore said
deposit to the full required deposit amount prior to reconnection.
   (B)   Existing customers shall not be required to pay a deposit and shall be
grandfathered. Provided, however, should any existing customer to which this
section applies act in a manner so as to result in being placed on the cut-off
list, then in order to be restored to service, shall be required to pay said
deposit.
   (C)   Deposits required hereunto shall be as follows:
      (1)   For a residential rental: $100;
      (2)   For a manufacturing rental: $500;
      (3)   For a retail rental: $100;
      (4)   For a restaurant rental: $500.
(Ord. 2018-003, passed 5-7-2018; Am. Ord. 2020-008, passed 7-6-2020)
§ 50.13 EXTENSIONS OF SERVICE TO UNSERVED CUSTOMERS AND AREAS.
   (A)   The provisions of KRS 96.539 relating to the extensions of service to
unserved customers and areas are hereby adopted by reference as if set out in
full herein.
   (B)   The city may require that any applicant for new sewer service pay to
the city all or part of the cost of extending utility lines, lift stations, and
related infrastructure as per the applicant’s request. In any instance in which
such payment is required by the city, the city shall subsequently refund to the
applicant required to make such payment, on a pro-rata basis for each
additional customer whose service line is directly connected to the extension
line paid for by the initial applicant. This is subject to the following
provisions.
      (1)   The refund hereby granted shall only apply for an extension that is
greater than 100 feet per applicant.
      (2)   No applicant having been required to pay the cost of extending
utility lines shall be entitled to a refund after the expiration of ten years
from the date of original payment, and no refunds shall be made in an amount in
excess of the original payment.
      (3)   (a)   The pro-rata cost to be refunded by the city shall be
collected by the city from the new customer seeking to connect to the extended
line, and said amount shall be deemed an additional tap on fee over and above
the amount charged under any other ordinance. Where the extension of services
addressed in this section is for a construction of line, then the proration
shall be determined by a calculation using the linear footage crossing the
property of the new customer seeking to connect to the extended line as the
numerator, and the entire linear length of the extension as the denominator,
multiplying the total extension cost times the product. Where an extension of
services requires the construction of a lift station, then the sum owed by the
new customer seeking to connect to the extended line shall be determined by a
formula utilizing the gallons per day consumption of the new customer seeking
to connect to the extended line as the numerator, and the total capacity of the
lift station as the denominator, and multiplying the product thereof times the
total cost of said lift station.
         (b)   Consumption shall be initially factored based on an engineer’s
estimate; but the calculation and determination of the amount owed may, in the
city’s discretion, be adjusted after 12 months based on actual use.
   (C)   To the extent of any conflict, the provisions of KRS 96.539 shall
apply.
   (D)   Any extensions governed by this section shall be documented by written
agreement between the city and the applicant.
(Ord. 2018-004, passed 6-19-2018)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   If any sewer bill is not paid within ten days following the date
rendered, a delinquency of 20% of the amount of such bill shall attach and be
payable in addition to the amount of such bill. If not paid as aforesaid within
such ten-day period, such charges shall be deemed delinquent.
      (2)   If any delinquent bill is not paid within 20 days alter the date of
rendition thereof, the Superintendent or other officer or agent of the entity
in charge of the operation of the facility providing water service shall be
required pursuant to authority of KRS 96.930 et seq., to discontinue or shut
off the water service to the premises served, and such water service shall not
be reinstated until the bill for sewer service is paid in full, together with
such charge or charges for discontinuing water services and/or for reconnecting
water service as the water supplier may from time to time prescribe. The
attorney for the city is hereby authorized and directed to enforce and collect
any charges remaining delinquent for 20 days. Charges for discontinuing and
reinstating service may vary from time to time. The water company is entitled
to charge a fee for its services and the fee for the sewer service for the said
service shall be equal to the water company fee. Thus, the amount to be paid
shall be an amount equal to twice that charged by the water company, one-half
of which will be retained by the city.
      (3)   In case that a check is returned to the city for insufficient funds
or for any other reason, the city shall give seven days notice to the person
making payment with that check that if not paid within said seven days, then
water service will be disconnected. Additionally, there will be a $30 charge
for said returned check in addition to any other costs incurred by the city.
   (B)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except
for nonpayment of a sewer bill shall be served by the City of Simpsonville with
written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable
time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within
the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate this chapter, except for non-payment of a
sewer bill, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $500 for each violation. Each day in
which such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the City of Simpsonville for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned the City of Simpsonville by reason of such violation.
   (E)   In addition to the penalties set forth above, the city may impose
civil penalties enforceable through a civil legal action in the Shelby Circuit
Court. Said penalties shall be double the actual cost to the city for
remediation but shall not be less than $500 per day and each day of a
continuation of a violation shall be considered a separate offense. The city
may also recover its costs for enforcement including legal fees.
(Ord. 2009-006, passed 6-17-2009)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
51.01   General provisions
   
51.02   Regulations
   
51.03   Service charges
   
51.04   Payment, term of contract and option to renew
   
51.05   Failure to pay
   
51.06   Carts
   
51.07   Franchise bids
   
51.08   Commercial defined
   
51.09   Solid waste disposal site
   
51.10   Equipment
   
51.11   Franchise term
   
51.12   Performance bond
   
51.13   Rates
   
51.14   Customer complaints
   
51.15   Regulation of franchise
   
51.16   Jurisdiction
   
51.17   Consideration of bids
   
51.18   Bid fees
   
51.19   Incorporation of chapter into franchise
   
51.20   Right to negotiate
   
51.21   Waiver of service
   
51.22   Back door service
§ 51.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   All owners of improved real estate and the operators of businesses within
the city limits shall utilize the garbage pickup and disposal services of
selected business that have been granted a franchise by the city and shall pay
a fee for such services. This chapter shall not apply to industrial customers
or dumpster collection within the city.
(Ord. 04-005, passed 10-20-2004; Am. Ord. 06-005, passed 11-7-2006; Am. Ord.
2011-004, passed 6-15-2011)
§ 51.02 REGULATIONS.
   Regulations for collection and disposal of garbage, trash and debris, as
well as the rates therefor are embodied within this chapter. A contract shall
be negotiated between the city and any successful bidder and shall contain all
essential elements to carry out this mandatory chapter. Industrial customers
and dumpster customers may contract with any qualified entity they desire for
the collection of refuse, garbage or industrial waste unless otherwise provided
in a subsequent ordinance.
(Ord. 04-005, passed 10-20-2004; Am. Ord. 06-005, passed 11-7-2006; Am. Ord.
2011-004, passed 6-15-2011)
§ 51.03 SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   The city may set fees by resolution from time to time as deemed
necessary to provide the services in this chapter. Any services in addition to
the regular residential collection shall be obtained directly from the
franchise holder and any extra charge therefor paid directly to the franchise
holder. Rear-door or "carry-out" service shall be available to all customers at
the rate stated in the bid and the difference shall be paid directly to the
franchise holder. In the event of the disability of a customer, said charge
shall be waived. The city shall determine what constitutes a disability upon
application by the customer. With regards to rentals the landlord is
responsible for any payment of trash removal of tenant fails to pay same.
   (B)   Commercial customers shall pay amounts and fees to the city as
determined by the city to provide services in this chapter. Commercial users
utilizing dumpsters may contract directly with such haulers as they may choose
unless otherwise provided by subsequent ordinance.
(Ord. 04-005, passed 10-20-2004; Am. Ord. 06-005, passed 11-7-2006; Am. Ord.
2011-004, passed 6-15-2011)
§ 51.04 PAYMENT, TERM OF CONTRACT AND OPTION TO RENEW.
   (A)   All payments shall be made to the city monthly for garbage collected
for the preceding month. Charges are considered delinquent after the due date
and shall be penalized as stated on said bill. Charges for collection and
disposal of garbage shall be billed on the sewer bill sent out each month.
Failure to pay this bill shall result in a disconnection of both sewer and/or
trash services.
   (B)   Partial payments received on the consolidated statement for sewer
utility charges and mandatory garbage collection charges shall be applied first
to charge for mandatory garbage collection (both current charges and
delinquencies) and thereafter to satisfaction of sewer utility charges.
(Ord. 04-005, passed 10-20-2004; Am. Ord. 06-005, passed 11-7-2006; Am. Ord.
2011-004, passed 6-15-2011)
§ 51.05 FAILURE TO PAY.
   Failure by any customer to pay for such garbage services shall result in the
discontinuation of this service or any other utility service provided by the
city and the application of any deposit held by the city to the deficiency. Any
other hauler that picks up trash in violation of a franchise agreement shall be
fined from $100 to $500 for each occurrence.
(Ord. 04-005, passed 10-20-2004; Am. Ord. 06-005, passed 11-7-2006; Am. Ord.
2011-004, passed 6-15-2011)
§ 51.06 CARTS.
   Each customer will be allowed one cart from the franchise holder and shall
use only this cart that is provided by said franchise holder. Additional carts
are available for a nominal fee and users must contact the franchise holder to
arrange these additional carts.
(Ord. 04-005, passed 10-20-2004; Am. Ord. 06-005, passed 11-7-2006; Am. Ord.
2011-004, passed 6-15-2011)
§ 51.07 FRANCHISE BIDS.
   Each bidder for said franchise shall submit its bid and shall base such bid
on the following information:
   (A)   The city will establish, by ordinance, mandatory garbage collection
within the city. The city may also adopt mandatory or optional collection of
recyclable materials within said ordinance; however, failure to adopt or
implement a system of collection of recyclable materials shall not affect or
invalidate any bid form, resolution, ordinance, notice of contract regarding
the franchise. The city will pay the franchise recipient, the "franchise
holder," based on the actual number of customers paying each month, less 25
free customers referred to in division (E) of this section.
   (B)   The franchise holder shall be required to provide pickup service for
household residential garbage; including large appliances and furniture to be
set out with a limit of one large piece per month for each residential customer
at curb side in front of the property, or at an alley or other accessible
public way if convenient for the property owner.
   (C)   The franchise holder shall be required to empty designated containers,
to be provided by the commercial customer, or one roll cart, provided by the
franchise holder, for each commercial customer at curb side in front of the
property, or at an alley or other public way if convenient for the property
owner, one time per week. Should any commercial establishment regularly exceed
the designated containers or roll cart, said commercial establishment shall
have the right to refuse regular pickup and said commercial establishment will
be required to dispose of garbage, trash, or refuse through a hauler providing
commercial dumpster service. Such commercial customers utilizing dumpsters
shall contract directly with a hauler of their choice outside of the terms of
the franchise, with the city's chosen franchise holder being given preference
if feasible.
   (D)   The franchise holder shall pay the city a franchise fee per customer
or a percentage of the gross revenue collected in the city, including both
residential and commercial fees (excluding dumpster fees). Payment shall be
retained by the city monthly from revenues collected for the preceding month.
Should any fees be paid directly to the franchisee for service in the city, the
franchisee shall pay the franchise fee to the city per the contract for
revenues collected in the previous month. A monthly accounting report of all
commercial fees collected shall be required with the payment.
   (E)   The franchise holder shall provide, free of charge to the city, free
pick-up of city dumpsters as per the contract. The franchise holder shall
further provide, free of charge, service to 25 additional residential customers
each month, which includes low-income, need-based customers/city residents.
Persons wishing to receive benefit of such free service shall make written
request to the city. The City Commission shall designate a person or agency to
determine which applicants are entitled to said free service.
(Ord. 06-005, passed 11-7-2006; Am. Ord. 2011-004, passed 6-15-2011)
§ 51.08 COMMERCIAL DEFINED.
   As used in this chapter, the term COMMERCIAL shall include real estate,
buildings, or premises used for retail or wholesale trade, personal or consumer
services, and/or public facilities, and shall further include apartment
buildings with a total of three or more rental units, where the owner provides
and pays for the services to be rendered for all such units. This term shall
not include industrial real estate, buildings, or premises.
(Ord. 06-005, passed 11-7-2006; Am. Ord. 2011-004, passed 6-15-2011)
§ 51.09 SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE.
   The franchise holder shall provide and use for the purpose of disposal of
the garbage, trash and debris collected, a solid waste disposal site or
facility approved by and under the regulation of the Kentucky Department of
Health in accordance with KRS 211.700 et seq., or the applicable state where
the disposal site or facility is located. In addition, the franchise holder
shall comply with all laws, ordinances, and regulations applying to its
activities under the franchise shall be subject to the regulations of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and the Shelby County Board of Health. The franchise
specifically excludes the collection of medical waste, as that term is defined
in the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
(Ord. 06-005, passed 11-7-2006; Am. Ord. 2011-004, passed 6-15-2011)
§ 51.10 EQUIPMENT.
   The franchise holder shall use for the collection of garbage (defined as
food waste and other items which quickly and easily decompose, becoming noxious
and/or a health hazard), an enclosed container in a leak-proof truck or trailer
equipped so as to compress and pack the garbage so collected. Equipment used
solely for the collection of trash and debris other than garbage, as herein
defined, shall be enclosed so as not to scatter and disburse said trash and
debris, using the smallest truck to perform said service. The contractor shall
empty all waste from the containers and return the containers upright to the
curb with the lids secured tightly. In the event of any spillage, the
contractor shall immediately clean up the waste. The franchise holder shall
maintain all dumpsters in a sanitary condition and in a clean and neat outward
appearance.
(Ord. 06-005, passed 11-7-2006; Am. Ord. 2011-004, passed 6-15-2011)
§ 51.11 FRANCHISE TERM.
   The term of the franchise offered for sale hereunder shall be up to a ten-
year period, and may be renewed for additional periods at rates, terms and
conditions agreeable with all parties and upon written agreement of the city
and the franchise holder executed no less than 90 days before the existing
contract terminates. The franchise shall be exclusive, that is, only the
franchise holder may collect and dispose of garbage, trash and debris (or
recyclable materials, if so required) from residential and commercial customers
(excluding dumpsters and any commercial establishment) who has contracted with
another provider under §51.07(C) as defined in this chapter within the city.
Any person, firm or corporation, including the franchise holder, may perform
such service by contract for industrial customers. As used in this chapter, the
term INDUSTRIAL CUSTOMER means a person, firm or corporation engaged in a
manufacturing activity and not in the usual course of business selling its
product at retail.
(Ord. 06-005, passed 11-7-2006; Am. Ord. 2011-004, passed 6-15-2011)
§ 51.12 PERFORMANCE BOND.
   The franchise holder, prior to the beginning of performance under the
franchise, shall furnish to the city a performance bond with corporate surety
in an amount of at least $100,000. The limit of liability on such performance
bond shall be subject to increase by the City Commission on the basis of any
increase in the cost of rendering the services authorized by the franchise and
on the basis of any increase in the volume of business under the franchise. The
franchise holder shall obtain, and maintain throughout the term of the
franchise, worker's compensation insurance, and general and automobile
liability insurance with minimum limits if at least $500,000 for the injury of
any one person, $2,000,000 for injury to all persons as the result of any
occurrence, and $250,000 for property damage resulting from any one occurrence.
Proof of insurance shall be given to the city each year of the franchise per
the contract. The franchise holder shall hold the city harmless and indemnify
the city from any liability, loss or damage for the actions of the franchise
holder or its agents and employees, including payment to the city of any
attorney's fees, court costs or expenses incurred by the city as a result of
the franchise holder's actions. Without waiving any rights of the city thereto,
the enforcement of the terms of the franchise rests with the franchisee. The
city shall be named as an additional insured on the franchise holder's policy,
and shall give the city 60 days advance written notice if any change in
insurance occurs during the franchise.
(Ord. 06-005, passed 11-7-2006; Am. Ord. 2011-004, passed 6-15-2011)
§ 51.13 RATES.
   Rates and prices to be charged according to a negotiated contract.
(Ord. 06-005, passed 11-7-2006; Am. Ord. 2011-004, passed 6-15-2011)
§ 51.14 CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS.
   The franchise holder shall respond to all customer complaints and shall
maintain a local phone number, or a toll-free number, by which customers can
contract the franchise holder. Collection shall be made in accordance with the
negotiated contract terms. Collection will not be permitted on Sundays or the
following holidays: Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day and New Year's Day. Refuse
not picked up on said holidays shall be picked up on the next working day with
the collection for the balance of the week following the holiday to be made on
their normally scheduled day. Any additional holidays observed by the
contractor shall be explained and set forth in submitted proposal.
(Ord. 06-005, passed 11-7-2006; Am. Ord. 2011-004, passed 6-15-2011)
§ 51.15 REGULATION OF FRANCHISE.
   The franchise holder shall at all times be subject to the reasonable
regulations by the City Commission on all matters pertaining to the franchise
including, but not limited to, the nature and quality of the service rendered
and performed under this franchise. At its option, the City Commission may
terminate the franchise for failure of the franchise holder to materially and
substantially perform for a period of one week, adverse weather, natural
catastrophes, and Acts of God are excepted waivers by the City Commission of
one or more failures by the franchise holder to perform shall not be deemed a
waiver of any failures or defaults and shall not prejudice the right of
termination hereby provided. Termination of the franchise as herein provided
shall not affect or release the liability of the franchise holder or its
corporate surety on the performance bond; provided, however, that such
termination shall be on such terms and conditions as will best protect the
rights of the corporate surety on said performance bond consistent with the
rights of the city and the customers of the service to be rendered under the
franchise; and provided further that the terms and conditions of the surety's
liability on its performance bond may be more fully specified and clarified by
agreement between the surety and the city made contemporaneously with the
execution of the performance bond.
(Ord. 06-005, passed 11-7-2006; Am. Ord. 2011-004, passed 6-15-2011)
§ 51.16 JURISDICTION.
   The franchise holder, and the corporate surety on the performance bond of
the franchise holder, shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the Shelby
Circuit Court in any action commenced on any claim under the franchise.
(Ord. 06-005, passed 11-7-2006; Am. Ord. 2011-004, passed 6-15-2011)
§ 51.17 CONSIDERATION OF BIDS.
   Bids for the purchase of the franchise will be judged on the basis of
consideration offered to the city for the franchise, the specifications of the
services proposed to be rendered, the prices to be charged to residential and
commercial customers for said services, and the ability of the bidders to
perform the services. At the time the franchise is awarded to the bidder, as
specified in §
51.20, the City Commission will specify, determine and establish the number of
collections from residential and commercial customers to be made by the
franchise holder each week, and the price to be changed by the franchise holder
for such number of collections from residential and commercial customers shall
be stated in the bid of such franchise holder.
(Ord. 06-005, passed 11-7-2006; Am. Ord. 2011-004, passed 6-15-2011)
§ 51.18 BID FEES.
   All bids shall include tipping fees and any other state or federal
assessment and no fee, charge or assessment shall be added to any customer's
bill.
(Ord. 06-005, passed 11-7-2006; Am. Ord. 2011-004, passed 6-15-2011)
§ 51.19 INCORPORATION OF CHAPTER INTO FRANCHISE.
   Any franchise sold under this chapter shall be granted by ordinance of the
City Commission and shall incorporate, verbatim or by reference, the provisions
of this chapter and the written proposal and bid of the franchise holder. In
the event this chapter is found to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid the
city reserves the right to renegotiate the terms of the franchise agreement
with the franchise holder or, if an agreement with the franchise holder cannot
be reached, to terminate the franchise and advertise for bids for such
franchise.
(Ord. 06-005, passed 11-7-2006; Am. Ord. 2011-004, passed 6-15-2011)
§ 51.20 RIGHT TO NEGOTIATE.
   The city reserves the right to negotiate specific details with the
successful bidder as may be beneficial to the city.
(Ord. 06-005, passed 11-7-2006; Am. Ord. 2011-004, passed 6-15-2011)
§ 51.21 WAIVER OF SERVICE.
   If a city resident has a commercial site for which service is paid under
this chapter, the resident, upon application and proof to the franchisee, may
waive pick-up at the residence and no residential fee shall be imposed.
(Ord. 06-005, passed 11-7-2006; Am. Ord. 2011-004, passed 6-15-2011)
§ 51.22 BACK DOOR SERVICE.
   Back door service will be available upon application and approval by the
city with proof that said resident(s) is/are not physically capable of
delivering his or her trash to the curb. This too shall be approved by the same
board/group that authorizes the free low-income service.
(Ord. 06-005, passed 11-7-2006; Am. Ord. 2011-004, passed 6-15-2011)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
         
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
73.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
         
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
         
75.   GOLF CARTS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Regulations
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Signal legends
   
70.16   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.17   Obedience to signals
   
70.18   Interference with signals
   
70.19   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.20   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.21   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
Speed Humps
   
70.40   Purpose
   
70.41   Definitions
   
70.42   Eligible streets
   
70.43   Criteria for consideration of speed humps
   
70.44   Voting and notice
   
70.45   Construction specifications (single hump)
   
70.46   Location selection guidelines
   
70.47   Signs and markings
   
70.48   Removal of speed humps
   
70.49   Funding
 
   
70.99   General penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Police Department, vehicles
of the Commonwealth Attorney's office when on official business, and ambulances
on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing the BOULEVARD.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. That portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and such other portions of the roadway
between two intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and
marked by stanchions, paint lines or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION. That part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle whether or not
one such street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the City
Commission.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street or portion thereof so designated by the City
Commission and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and foot
paths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to proceed
in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. The portion of any street, improved, designated or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn on any street, except devices moved by human power or used
exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, the
state, county or city and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate
any of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in
this traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, every person driving any animal on any roadway and every person
driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of this
traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those provisions
of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no application.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle or any other signal.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the City Commission or any authorized city official
shall, at his or her discretion, have authority to impose such traffic
regulations as he or she may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed
two weeks. If these temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer
than two weeks, the City Clerk shall be notified in writing of the extended
order.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words "Go," "Caution" or "Stop," or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows:
   (A)   Green alone or "Go." Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time
the signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or "Caution" when shown following the green or
"Go" signal. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or "Stop." Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such
other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line and shall remain
standing until green or "Go" is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line and shall not again proceed until
it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by the
signal.
   (F)   "Yield right-of-way." Vehicular traffic facing the "yield right-of-
way" sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right of way to all vehicles and pedestrians within such primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a "yield right-of-way"
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 mph, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles entering an
expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights. When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above the lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at such place prohibits
such turn.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.16 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control
devices necessary within the city.
   (B)   All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall be employed to
indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform, and as far as
possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices and signs shall
conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.17 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey
the signal of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate or watchman at railroad crossings unless otherwise directed by a
police officer.
      (2)   However, the type and the right to or necessity for the barrier or
sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any part thereof.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic device or
railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the movement of
traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or signal. No
person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit on any
street, any traffic sign or signal bearing any commercial advertising. Nothing
in this section shall be construed as restricting any public department or
public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily from marking or
erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been approved by the
city.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
§ 70.21 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may, at his or her discretion, disregard
traffic-control lights or signals or established regulations in order to
facilitate the movement of traffic.
SPEED HUMPS
§ 70.40 PURPOSE.
   The use of speed humps on city streets serves to reduce vehicular speeds as
well as reduce cut-through traffic on local residential city streets. Both of
these effects are realized when speed humps are installed on a city street. The
application of speed humps is limited to city streets where geometric
configuration or design fails to passively deter many drivers from exceeding
the speed limit or from using streets as bypass routes. The proper application
of speed humps enhances public safety. The city hereby adopts this subchapter
in order to utilize speed humps as part of its traffic laws to control traffic
and increase the safety of its citizens at and along its city streets. All
speed humps will be governed by the provisions set forth herein.
(Ord. 2020-003, passed 2-3-2020)
§ 70.41 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   85TH PERCENTILE SPEED. The speed at or below which 85% of the traffic is
moving. The 85TH PERCENTILE SPEED is used as one of the criteria to determine
if a street qualifies for speed humps.
   AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC (ADT). The average two-way volume of traffic on a city
street during a 24-hour period as measured through a traffic survey.
   MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENCE (MFR). A residential property with two to four
individual housing units (duplex, triplex, quadplex).
   MUTCD. Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE (SFR). A single-family detached home, or single-
family home or detached house for short, also variously known as a single-
detached dwelling.
   SPEED HUMP. A single asphalt hump, parabolic in shape, covering 12 to 14
feet of street, with a height between three and three and one-half inches.
   SPEED SURVEY. A survey of traffic speeds and volume to determine the
percentage of traffic exceeding the speed limit and the volume of traffic.
   STREET SEGMENT. That portion of street contained between the closest of any
traffic light(s), four-way intersection(s), stop sign(s), and/or curve(s) with
greater than a 250-foot radius.
(Ord. 2020-003, passed 2-3-2020)
§ 70.42 ELIGIBLE STREETS.
   In order for a city street to be eligible for a speed hump , the following
initial criteria must first be met:
   (A)   The street must have adequate sight distances to safely accommodate
the hump and signage as determined by Public Works Department, as defined in
the Traffic Engineering Handbook, MUTCD, and Recommended Guidelines for Design
and Application of Speed Humps.
   (B)   The street must not have curves or grades that prevent safe placement
of the humps. Humps may be located on streets that contain curves and/or
grades, but the hump itself shall not be located within a significant
horizontal curve (250 foot or smaller radius) or have a vertical grade greater
than 8%.
   (C)   The posted speed limit must be 25 mph or less.
   (D)   The land uses of the properties abutting the street where the speed
hump is proposed must be composed of primarily residential dwellings. Only
public roadways which have been accepted as part of the city’s roadway system
may be considered.
   (E)   Traffic volumes must be more than 500 but less than 3,000 vehicles,
two way (north/south or east/west) volume per day.
   (F)   The speed survey period shall be seven days. The traffic data shall be
divided into five weekdays (Sunday 6:00 p.m. to Friday 6:00 p.m.) and two-day
weekend (Friday 6:00 p.m. to Sunday 6:00 p.m.). If either weekday or weekend
traffic data meets the criteria for a speed hump for traffic volume, the 85th
percentile speed is in excess of the speed limit, and meets geometric
requirements, then the site location is eligible to for a speed hump with city
funding.
(Ord. 2020-003, passed 2-3-2020)
§ 70.43 CRITERIA FOR CONSIDERATION OF SPEED HUMPS.
   (A)   In order for a city street eligible under §
70.42 to have a speed hump constructed thereon, the following criteria must
first be met:
      (1)   Delivery to the City Administrator of a petition signed by not less
than a total of five SFRs, and/or MFRs, or a combination thereof, from the
affected street segment where the proposed speed hump is to be installed; a
residence is affected if it is located upon the street segment.
         (a)   A homeowners association may also submit a petition for a street
within their neighborhood.
         (b)   A business owning property shall be considered as an SFR.
      (2)   The petition shall contain the following information:
         (a)   A caption that includes, in bold font, at least 14 point, “A
PETITION TO INSTALL SPEED HUMP(S) ON [name of street or road] STREET/ROAD”;
         (b)   The legibly printed name, address, and signature of each
petitioner and date;
         (c)   One petitioner shall be identified as a sponsor, for which the
city will use as a primary contact person;
         (d)   A description of the affected street segment, either by listing
the addresses or address range of the residents along the segment, or a
description of the starting point and stopping point of the affected street
segment.
      (3)   Based on the received petition, the city will determine the speed
hump location along the street. If multiple petitions are received at one time
for a street, the city may consolidate the petitions into one petition.
         (a)   The city will make a preliminary determination of eligibility by
obtaining traffic data in a timely matter at the proposed location of the speed
hump.
         (b)   The city may conduct additional transportation engineering
studies, including but not limited to traffic volume, accident, and speed
studies, and solicit comments and recommendations of other agencies, including
but not limited to emergency service. A determination of the street eligibility
for speed hump installation, with or without city funding, will be made, in
writing and in a timely manner, to the applicant’s sponsor based on this
subchapter.
         (c)   The city will make a determination of the total design,
engineering and installation costs according to this subchapter. Upon review by
and prior to any final action by the Commission, the applicant sponsor will be
notified, in writing, providing full details regarding the number of speed
humps, location of speed humps, and estimated costs as determined by the city.
If professional services are required, then the city may request a higher cost
than stated below to recoup the professional fees or require a professional
opinion to be submitted by the sponsor.
         (d)   If a speed hump location does not obtain an 85th percentile
speed in excess of the speed limit, then the petition may proceed without city
funding.
   (B)   If the above criteria have been satisfied, the city shall prepare and
deliver a notice and ballot relative to the street hump to those persons
entitled to vote as provided in §
70.44.
(Ord. 2020-003, passed 2-3-2020)
§ 70.44 VOTING AND NOTICE.
   (A)   If the street is determined to be eligible for consideration, a
meeting will be arranged between the applicant’s representative and appropriate
city staff to define the petition area, the speed hump location and funding
options.
      (1)   The petition area shall have approximately 50 homes and may include
a side street to obtain the minimum number of homes.
      (2)   Individual ballots will be prepared using available property
information from city records or other public record, prepared by the city and
mailed to the properties in the voting area by the city.
      (3)   Each property owner shall return the petition to the city.
      (4)   Each petition period should be a maximum of 60 days.
   (B)   For SFRs, one vote per household located upon the affected street
segment is allowed; the voter(s) must reside at the household and be 18 years
or older, whether they are owners or tenants thereof. For MFRs, one vote is
allowed for the owner of record of the two-family or multi-family residence
located upon the affected street segment. Joint or multiple property owners
must sign to be counted. Unsigned owners on any petition or ballot will be
counted as an opposition vote to the installation of speed humps. In the case
of dual joint ownership, both owners must vote in the affirmative or the ballot
will be counted as an opposition vote. In case of multiple owners, (more than
two) of a particular property, a majority will determine the overall property
vote. In cases of a corporate ownership, an affidavit that the signatory is
authorized to sign on behalf of the corporation.
   (C)   Persons entitled to vote on any proposed speed hump shall be given
notice and a voting ballot via regular mail, mailed to the last known address
or address listed with the contact for the property for the Shelby County
Property Value Administrator.
      (1)   Each property owner shall return the petition to the city.
      (2)   All petitioners agree in cost sharing portion of $50 per
affirmative vote associated with installation of speed hump or humps. All cost
share proceeds shall be payable to the city and submitted with the affirmative
petition.
      (3)   If the petition sponsor is a homeowners association, the
organization may elect to pay $1,700, in lieu of individual property owners
share the cost of the speed hump. The cost share proceeds shall be payable to
the city and submitted prior to the city distribution of the petition to the
individual property owners for voting.
      (4)   If the city is not participating in cost sharing the cost of the
speed hump, the cost shall be $100 for each affirmative vote by the property
owner or $3,400 by the homeowners association, unless professional fees are
incurred by the city.
      (5)   The city may waive cost share requirements and pay 100% cost with
Commission approval. The city Commission may also deny a qualified petition for
a speed hump.
      (6)   Each petition period should be a maximum of 60 days. If after 60
days, a minimum of two-thirds of the voting area has not approved the speed
hump petition, the petition has failed, and checks will be destroyed.
   (C)   For approval, a two-thirds majority of those persons entitled to vote
must be in favor of the installation of speed humps.
   (D)   If a speed hump proposal fails for any reason after the completion of
the voting process provided herein, then the street segment for which the
voting related may not be considered again for a speed hump for a period of two
years.
(Ord. 2020-003, passed 2-3-2020)
§ 70.45 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS (SINGLE HUMP).
   All speed humps shall be constructed of asphalt concrete, have a width of
between 12 and 14 feet, a minimum height of three inches and a maximum height
of three and one-half inches at their highest point. All speed humps will
extend two feet from the face of the curb or the edge of the street. There will
be a two-foot horizontal taper originating at the crest of the speed hump and
converging at the lip of curb. Asphalt concrete shall be mixed and placed in
accordance with the city’s specifications.
(Ord. 2020-003, passed 2-3-2020)
§ 70.46 LOCATION SELECTION GUIDELINES.
   (A)   The city will prepare and maintain current design standards and
installation procedures for speed humps. Application and design of speed humps
shall comply with the Institute of Transportation Engineers, Recommended
Practice, Guidelines for the Design and Application of Speed Humps. All signage
and pavement markings shall comply with the current edition of the MUTCD.
   (B)   In selecting precise locations for any speed hump installation, the
following guidelines shall be followed:
      (1)   Speed humps shall not be located over manholes, water valves, or
whenever possible, within 25 feet of fire hydrants, as they prevent/impede
access to these facilities.
      (2)   Speed humps should be located five to ten feet away from driveways,
whenever possible, to minimize their effect on driveway access.
      (3)   Speed humps should be located on or near property lines, whenever
possible, to minimize the impact on access to individual properties.
      (4)   Speed humps should be located near streetlights, whenever possible,
in order to enhance their visibility at night.
      (5)   Speed humps should be located a minimum distance of 200 feet from
corners, whenever possible, and should never be located within a corner radius.
      (6)   Where speed humps are constructed on streets having curves with
less than a 250-foot radius, no speed hump shall be located on the horizontal
curve(s).
      (7)   Speed humps shall be spaced at a minimum interval of 250 feet.
Speed humps will be placed no closer than 200 feet from traffic control devices
or four-way intersections.
(Ord. 2020-003, passed 2-3-2020)
§ 70.47 SIGNS AND MARKINGS.
   In order to alert motorists of upcoming speed humps, the following warning
devices shall be used:
   (A)   Each speed hump shall be marked with a “Speed Hump” sign as indicated
by MUTCD at the start of the hump in each direction.
   (B)   (1)   Each speed hump shall be marked with a “15 MPH” speed advisory
sign between 200 feet and 325 feet in front of the speed hump in each direction
(based on 25 mph speed limit).
      (2)   The sign shall be placed at a minimum of 40 feet from any other
sign.
   (C)   The front of the speed hump shall be marked with six-inch wide
thermoplastic pavement markings on each half of the traffic lane.
   (D)   The exact speed hump location is subject to traffic safety and
operations requirements as determined and approved by the city.
(Ord. 2020-003, passed 2-3-2020)
§ 70.48 REMOVAL OF SPEED HUMPS.
   Removing a speed hump may be considered when the criteria listed below are
met:
   (A)   The process for speed hump removal or alteration by citizens is the
same as the process for installation with the exceptions that no petition shall
be considered until three years have expired after the installation and the
petitioner’s cost share associated with such removal shall be set at 66.67% of
the total.
   (B)   In addition, the removal procedure and cost share only apply to those
speed humps that were installed after the effective date of this subchapter.
   (C)   The city retains the authority to remove or alter any speed humps upon
its own.
   (D)   By default the city will not participate in cost sharing for the
removal of a speed hump, except by Commission approval.
(Ord. 2020-003, passed 2-3-2020)
§ 70.49 FUNDING.
   A city street that qualifies for any one of the speed hump program
categories may be constructed by the city if there is funding available for the
project in the current city budget cycle. The priority of any qualifying
project shall be determined at the discretion of the City Commission. Those not
funded will be considered, based on a priority ranking system, as funding
becomes available. Nothing in this section shall obligate the city to allocate
such funding.
(Ord. 2020-003, passed 2-3-2020)
§ 70.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20, nor more than $500.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
   
71.05   Speed restrictions
Accidents
   
71.15   Duty of operator
   
71.16   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.25   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.26   Right of way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.27   Smoke emission or other nuisance
Parades
   
71.40   Definitions
   
71.41   Permit required
   
71.42   Application for permit
   
71.43   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.44   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.45   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.46   Alternative permit
   
71.47   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.48   Contents of permit
   
71.49   Duties of permittee
   
71.50   Public conduct during parades
   
71.51   Revocation of permit
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he shall be deemed to have violated this
division rather than division (B) above.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless the movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8)) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the
vehicle at any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement.
   (B)   A vehicle from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in
such manner as to proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful
direction of travel.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space, except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the City Commission or any authorized city official.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive
the vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building or lot and across a sidewalk,
or its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension.
      (2)   On entering the roadway from the alley, driveway or building the
operator shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
      (3)   The operator of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn
into an alley from the roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   The speed limit for vehicular traffic at and upon all of the city-controlled
streets is established to be not in excess of 25 mph and any speed in excess of
the limit herein specified shall be unlawful and shall be subject to the fines
for speeding as prescribed by KRS 189.394; provided, however, that, the city
authorities have caused to be posted appropriate signs giving public notice of
this reduced speed limit.
(Ord. 89-4, passed 6-6-1989) Penalty, see §
71.99
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.15 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render such assistance as may be needed.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.16 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
Penalty, see §
71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.25 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle in a
careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians and
other vehicles upon the highway. No person shall willfully operate any vehicle
on any highway in such a manner as to injure the highway.
(KRS 189.290) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.26 RIGHT OF WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust whistle
or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way,
immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to, the
edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and stop and remain in
such position until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise
directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall keep the position until
the emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer
or firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he or she
drive into, park the vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the block where
the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he or
she is directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway or track for use at any fire or fire alarm unless the fire
department official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   Upon approaching a stationary emergency vehicle or public safety
vehicle, when the emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal
by displaying alternately flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or
blue lights, a person who drives an approaching vehicle shall, while proceeding
with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the authorized emergency vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes
with not fewer than two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the
approaching vehicle; and
         (b)   If it is possible to make the lane change with due regard to
safety and traffic conditions; or
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if changing lanes would be impossible or unsafe.
   (F)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.27 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) Penalty, see §
71.99
PARADES
§ 71.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant or procession
of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk, park or
other public place in the city.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
§ 71.41 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the City
Commission or any authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.42 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application
with the City Commission or any authorized city official on forms provided by
the Commissioner or such officer.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall be filed not less than five
days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is proposed to
conduct the parade.
   (C)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairman and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his or her behalf; and
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (D)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Commission.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.43 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The City Commission or any authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire; and
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.44 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The City Commission or any authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If the City Commission or authorized
city official disapproves the application, it shall mail to the applicant
within the three days, Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excepted, after the date
on which the application was filed, a notice of its action stating the reasons
for denial of the permit.
§ 71.45 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Commission. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Commission shall act on the appeal within 30 days
after its receipt.
§ 71.46 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The City Commission or any authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall conform to
the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit under this
subchapter.
§ 71.47 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The City Commission;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Police Chief and the Fire Chief; and
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
§ 71.48 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park or other public place to be
traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.49 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairperson or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his or
her person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.50 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede or
interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle, except a police car
or other emergency vehicle, shall drive between the vehicles or persons
comprising a parade when the vehicles or persons are in motion and are
conspicuously designated as a parade.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Cross-reference:
   Parking on parade routes, see § 72.07
§ 71.51 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance, as herein set forth.
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20, nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.26 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $60 nor
more than $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 30 days,
or both.
(KRS 189.993(8))
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   General parking regulations
   
72.02   Parking in certain locations prohibited
Impounding
   
72.20   Definitions
   
72.21   Vehicles which are subject to impoundment
   
72.22   Towing, storage, and handling charges
   
72.23   Release of vehicle
   
72.24   Registered owner of vehicle presumed to be violator
   
72.25   Impoundment of vehicles authorized
   
72.26   Required notice to owner
   
72.27   Sale of vehicle
   
72.28   Right to a hearing
   
72.29   City tow lots
Snow Emergency
   
72.35   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.36   Termination of emergency
   
72.37   Snow emergency routes
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§
71.40 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS 65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 GENERAL PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A) It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   The provisions of these regulations prohibiting the stopping and
parking of a vehicle shall apply at all times to those times herein specified
or as indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or any other official acting in the interest of the public
safety, such as firemen or similar officers.
   (C)   The City Commission shall determine on what streets or portions
thereof stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited, designating the
type or types of vehicles to which such restrictions or prohibitions are
applicable such as automobiles, trucks, etc.
   (D)   Whenever under authority of or by these traffic regulations or any
other ordinance any parking limit is imposed or parking is prohibited on
designated streets, or parking areas are restricted to handicapped parking,
appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice thereof. However, in lieu of
erecting such signs or in conjunction therewith, the face and top of a curb at
or adjacent to which parking is prohibited at all times may be painted a solid
yellow color.
   (E)   No such regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the
signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the
time of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions
which by their very nature would not require such signs and markings.
   (F)   When signs are erected in compliance with these traffic regulations,
no person shall park a vehicle in violation of the restriction specified on
such official signs.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle
on any of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or
longer. Any vehicle left parked in any one place for a period of 24 hours or
longer shall be deemed abandoned, and shall be subject to all existing
regulations of the city pertaining to abandoned motor vehicles. Attempts will
be made to notify owners if possible.
   (H)   Any city police officer may impound any vehicle abandoned or illegally
parked in any place where the vehicle creates or constitutes a traffic hazard,
blocks the use of any fire hydrant, or obstructs or may obstruct the movement
of any emergency vehicle. An illegally parked vehicle may similarly be
impounded where a citation for the illegal parking has been attached to the
vehicle, and the vehicle has not been moved within two hours after issuance of
the citation.
   (I)   Vehicles so impounded shall be removed and towed away by any
commercial towing service. The vehicles shall be stored in a safe place and
shall be restored to the owner or operator upon payment of the amount of the
fine for illegal parking, plus such reasonable towing and storage charges which
may be charged. All charges to be paid by the owner of the vehicle.
   (J)   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any
provisions of these traffic regulations relating to stopping, standing, or
parking of vehicles, and the identity of the driver cannot be determined, the
owner or person in whose name the vehicle is registered shall he held prima
facie responsible for the violation.
   (K)   Handicap parking permits issued by authorized officials shall be
displayed on the inside rear view mirror of a vehicle, in such a fashion as to
allow the expiration date of the permit to be read from the outside of the
vehicle.
   (L)   All commercial establishments which designate handicap parking spaces
shall identify same with a universal handicap parking sign prominently
displayed for each space.
(Ord. 2010-009, passed 12-15-2010) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 PARKING IN CERTAIN LOCATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or traffic control devise (stop sign, etc.), in any of the
following places:
      (1)   On any sidewalk or utility strip between the street and sidewalk;
      (2)   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of any driveway;
      (3)   Within any intersection;
      (4)   In or upon any crosswalk;
      (5)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (6)   At any place where official signs or markings prohibit stopping,
standing or parking;
      (7)   Within ten feet of any intersection;
      (8)   With the left side of the vehicle next to the curb or on the
roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a street;
      (9)   On any private property without the consent of the owner of the
property, if the owner has posted a sign prohibiting or regulating parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any property owner, resident, renter or
lessee in the city to store, park or otherwise allow upon residential premises
any automobile or motor vehicle that is inoperative, or that does not possess
insurance proof, if required by Kentucky law, unless said vehicle is contained
inside a parking garage.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to park or store any motor vehicle, airplane,
boat, mobile home, recreational vehicle or trailer on a vacant lot or in the
front yard of any dwelling or structure in the residential district; and it
shall be illegal for such vehicles to be lived in or occupied by any persons
while located in the city.
   (D)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any street or roadway for
the principal purpose of:
      (1)   Displaying it for sale;
      (2)   Washing, greasing, repairing, or demolishing the vehicle, except
for repairs necessitated by an emergency.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle, including
trailers, upon any city street if the vehicle exceeds the width of seven feet
or the length of 26 feet, unless the vehicle is in the process of being loaded
or unloaded.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle upon the
streets or portions of streets at the time or times indicated, as set forth in
Chapter 74, Schedule I.
   (G)   Heavy trucks, trailers and semis shall be prohibited upon such streets
within the city as set forth in regulations as may be adopted by the city,
except for deliveries being made to premises upon such streets, and any person
or persons in violation of this prohibition shall be subject to penalty as
herein provided.
(Ord. 2010-009, passed 12-15-2010) Penalty, see §
72.99
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LAW. Any act, statute, ordinance, regulation, or order of the United States
of America, Commonwealth of Kentucky, County of Shelby, or City of
Simpsonville, or any department, agency, or officer of any of them.
   MOTORCYCLE. A motor vehicle with only two wheels.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle operated by any means other than muscular power.
   PEACE OFFICER. A peace officer as defined in KRS 446.010(31) or any other
person with the authority to arrest another person in the city.
   PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, partnership, joint venture,
unincorporated association, or any combination thereof.
(Ord. 2016-007, passed 7-7-2016)
§ 72.21 VEHICLES WHICH ARE SUBJECT TO IMPOUNDMENT.
   Pursuant to the authority of KRS 82.625, any peace officer in the city is
hereby authorized to cause to be impounded and removed to a safe and secure
location, any motor vehicle which is owned, operated, parked, or otherwise
located upon any public street in the city in violation of any law, or any
motor vehicle which:
   (A)   Has been abandoned;
   (B)   Constitutes a nuisance at common law;
   (C)   Constitutes an impediment or hazard to the reasonable and lawful use
by any person of the street upon which such motor vehicle is located; or
   (D)   Is evidence in any criminal action.
(Ord. 2016-007, passed 7-7-2016)
§ 72.22 TOWING, STORAGE, AND HANDLING CHARGES.
   Pursuant to the authority of KRS 82.625, and in addition to all civil and
criminal fines levied for parking or traffic offenses involving a motor vehicle
that is impounded by the city as a consequence thereof, there is hereby levied
and imposed upon that impounded motor vehicle all of reasonable expenses
incurred by the city in the towing and storage of such impounded motor vehicle,
plus a handling fee of $75 payable to the city for the handling time of the
city officers in the impoundment and release of that motor vehicle and the
preparation and maintenance of the records in regard thereto; and the release
of that motor vehicle from impoundment is hereby conditioned upon the payment
of that handling fee and all of those towing and storage charges and expenses,
without which the impounded motor vehicle shall not be released from
impoundment. Daily storage fees of $25 can be charged before vehicles are
picked up.
(Ord. 2016-007, passed 7-7-2016)
§ 72.23 RELEASE OF VEHICLE.
   A motor vehicle impounded pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter
shall be released to the owner thereof only upon proof of ownership; and shall
be released to any other person entitled to the possession thereof upon proof
of the right to possession and the provision of reasonable security, bond, or
some other adequate assurance of indemnification of the city and the officers
and agents thereof against liability, loss, or damage for releasing such motor
vehicle to any person other than the owner thereof.
(Ord. 2016-007, passed 7-7-2016)
§ 72.24 REGISTERED OWNER OF VEHICLE PRESUMED TO BE VIOLATOR.
   In any prosecution for a violation of the terms and provisions of this
subchapter and KRS 189.450(2), it shall be presumed, in the absence of
conclusive evidence to the contrary, that the person to whom the motor vehicle
is registered caused or permitted the location thereof in the manner indicated
in the evidence.
(Ord. 2016-007, passed 7-7-2016)
§ 72.25 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED.
   All police officers of the city are empowered to authorize the impoundment
of a vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinance and laws of Kentucky and the
United States after a citation has been issued.
   (A)   Removal of abandoned or illegally parked vehicles. All motor vehicles
abandoned or illegally parked on the public streets and ways of the city, shall
be removed at the direction of the Police Department and shall be placed in
custody of city tow lots.
   (B)   Removal of vehicle by owner-operator.
      (1)   An abandoned or illegally parked vehicle may be removed by the
owner or operator of the vehicle at any time prior to the vehicle becoming
physically attached to a wrecker or tow truck.
      (2)   After a vehicle has been physically attached to a wrecker, but
before the wrecker has left the scene, the owner or operator of the vehicle may
take possession of the vehicle only on payment to the wrecker driver of a fee
in return for which the wrecker driver shall issue a release to the owner or
operator.
         (a)   Neither the removal of a vehicle by an owner or operator as
referred to in division (B)(1) nor the issuance of the release referred to in
division (B)(2) shall be construed as relieving the owner or operator of any
such vehicle from responsibility for any violation of the traffic code with
which he or she may be charged.
         (b)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Simpsonville Police Department. Should a vehicle be moved
without the consent and approval of the Police Department a warrant can be
requested of the local prosecutor.
         (c)   All fines, fees and charges must be paid in full before a
release of impoundment can be issued for the vehicle’s release.
(Ord. 2016-007, passed 7-7-2016)
§ 72.26 REQUIRED NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported
pursuant to order of police, other public authority, or private person or
business for any reason or when the vehicle has been stolen or misappropriated
and its removal from the public ways has been ordered by police, other public
authority or by private person or business, or in any other situation where a
motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported by order of police,
other authority, or by private person or business, the police, other authority,
or private person or business shall attempt to ascertain from the State
Transpiration Cabinet the identity of the registered owner of the motor vehicle
or lessor of a motor carriers defined in KRS Ch. 281 and within ten business
days of the removal shall, by certified mail, attempt to notify the registered
owner at the address of record of the make, model, license number, and vehicle
identification number of the vehicle, of the location of the vehicle, and of
the requirements for securing the release of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   If a vehicle described in division (A) of this section, is placed on
non-city property, the owner of the facility shall attempt to provide the
notice provided for in division (A) of this section by certified mail to the
registered owner at the address of record of the motor vehicle or lessor of a
motor carrier as defined in KRS Ch. 281 within ten business days of recovery
of, or taking possession of the motor vehicle. This notice shall contain the
information as to the make, model, license number, and identification number of
the vehicle, the location of the vehicle, and the amount of reasonable charges
due on the vehicle. When the owner of the facility fails to provide notice as
provide herein, the motor vehicle storage facility shall forfeit all storage
fees accrued after ten business days from the date of tow. This section,
division (B), shall not apply to a tow lot or storage facility owned or
operated by the city.
(Ord. 2016-007, passed 7-7-2016)
§ 72.27 SALE OF VEHICLE.
   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor vehicles in
either a private capacity or for the city, who has substantially complied with
the requirements of §
72.26 above herein shall have a lien on the motor vehicle for a reasonable or
agreed charges for storing or towing the vehicle as long as it remains in his
possession. If after a period of 45 days, the reasonable or agreed charges for
storing or towing a motor vehicle have not been paid, the motor vehicle may be
sold to pay the charges after the owner or lien holder has been notified by
certified mail ten days prior to the time and place of the sale. If the
proceeds of the sale of any vehicle pursuant to this section are insufficient
to satisfy accrued charges for towing, transporting and storage, the sale and
collection of proceeds shall not constitute a waiver of a release of
responsibility for payment of unpaid towing, transporting and storage charges
by the owner or responsible casualty insurer of the vehicle. The procedures
herein shall be in compliance with KRS 376.275.
(Ord. 2016-007, passed 7-7-2016)
§ 72.28 RIGHT TO A HEARING.
   (A)   Request for a hearing. The person to whom the notices are directed or
their duly authorized agents may file a written request for hearing before the
City Commission or its designee within 20 days of receiving notice as set out
in §
72.26(A), for the purposes of defending the charges by the city.
   (B)   Hearing procedure. The hearing shall be held as soon as practicable
after the filing of the request. The persons to whom the notices in §
72.26(A) are directed shall be advised of the time and place of the hearing at
least three days in advance thereof and said person shall pay all costs of said
hearing. At any such hearing, the city and the persons to whom the notices have
been directed may introduce such witnesses and evidence as either party deems
necessary.
(Ord. 2016-007, passed 7-7-2016)
§ 72.29 CITY TOW LOTS.
   City tow lots shall be under the direction of the Chief of Police who shall
designate a custodian responsible for its operation. The city tow lots shall be
maintained and operated on a 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., service Monday through
Friday excepting all state and Federal holidays and shall have storage
facilities to take care of all vehicles towed by city and contract wreckers.
The city tow lots which are designated for storage of all motor vehicles towed
by city wreckers or contract wreckers shall be secured in such a manner as to
preclude tampering with vehicles stored therein and shall be required to take
all necessary steps to prevent damage accruing to such vehicles while in their
custody.
(Ord. 2016-007, passed 7-7-2016)
SNOW EMERGENCY
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.35 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever the City Commission or any authorized city official finds
that falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain will create a condition which makes
it necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever it is found on the basis of a firm forecast of snow,
sleet or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may create a
condition making it necessary that the parking be prohibited, the Commission or
city official is authorized to announce the prohibition, to become effective at
a time specified by it.
   (B)   After the effective time of such prohibition, no person shall park any
vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a snow emergency route.
   (C)   However, if a fall of snow, sleet or freezing rain occurs after 11:00
p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the City Commission or any authorized city
official has not announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency
routes is to be prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow
emergency route may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following such fall. The
prohibition of parking announced by the City Commission or any authorized city
official under the authority of this section shall remain in effect until the
Commission or city official announces the termination of the snow emergency, in
part or in whole, after which the prohibition of parking authorized by this
section shall no longer be in effect.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.36 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the City Commission or any authorized city official shall find that
some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency prohibition
no longer exist, the Commission or city official is authorized to declare the
termination of the emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on
announcement. If the announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:
00 p.m., it shall be repeated between those hours.
§ 72.37 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE.
      (1)   Any route designated by the City Commission or any authorized city
official.
      (2)   On such street or highway designated as a snow emergency route,
special signs shall be posted to this effect.
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, unless
otherwise specified, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof in a court of competent jurisdiction, shall be fined not
less than$10 nor more that $100 for each violation committed, each day's
continuance of a violation constituting a separate offense, or imprisoned for
not more than 30 days, or both so fined and imprisoned, within the discretion
of the judge or jury.
   (B)   Nobody shall conspire, cause, permit, promote, allow, aid, assist,
encourage or engage in any violation of any provision of §§
72.20 et seq., or any other code adopted and enacted by reference therein; and
pursuant to the authority of KRS 83A.065, each and every violation thereof, by
either act or omission, for which no penalty is otherwise provided thereby, is
hereby designated and declared to be a misdemeanor; and each day of any
continuation thereof shall be a separate and distinct violation and offense,
for which:
      (1)   Anybody convicted thereof, in a court of competent jurisdiction,
shall be sentenced to pay a criminal fine, in an amount which shall not exceed
the amount of $500 set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(a), or a term of imprisonment
not to exceed the period of 90 days set forth in KRS 532.090(2), or both; and
      (2)   The offender shall be subject to a civil penalty of $100, plus
court costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees, for each violation and offense,
which shall be recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of a debt,
if not paid by the offender within 30 continuous calendar days after citation
for the violation, offense or other failure to comply with the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-009, passed 12-15-2010; Am. Ord. 2016-007, passed 7-7-2016)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city. No person
shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park, playground, play lot
or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area. No operator of any
bicycle shall carry another person on the bicycle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Bicycles; safety regulations and standards, see KRS 189.287
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter or power-driven bicycle
shall operate the vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter or power-driven bicycle
shall operate the vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Regulations for operating and riding on motorcycles, see KRS 189.285
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as "play streets"
by the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful
for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of any
kind, to go on any roadway, except at a crosswalk.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he or she is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board or fenders of
any vehicle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to have
committed a violation and shall be fined not more than $50 for each offense.
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking prohibited
SCHEDULE I: PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No parking shall be permitted on the following streets or in the following
subdivision between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   Birdie Court
   Champions Circle
   Champions Way
   Countryside Drive
   Links Drive
   Parr Court
   Rolling Ridge Subdivision
   Station Point Drive
(Ord. 2010-009, passed 12-15-2010)
CHAPTER 75: GOLF CARTS
Section
   
75.01   Purpose
   
75.02   Defined
   
75.03   Operation
   
75.04   City roads
   
75.05   Restrictions on operation
 
   
75.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02
§ 75.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish rules and regulations to allow
for the safe and lawful operation of golf carts upon city roads as an
alternative means of transportation.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 75.02 DEFINED.
   As used in this chapter, GOLF CART shall mean any self-propelled vehicle
designed for the transporting players or maintaining equipment on a golf
course, while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising the play of golf, or
maintaining the condition of the grounds on a golf course, and as further
defined in KRS 189.286.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 75.03 OPERATION.
   Golf carts are permitted to be operated on designated city roads within the
city limits, subject to the rules and restrictions set forth herein, provided:
   (A)   The golf cart does not exceed a speed of 35 miles per hour;
   (B)   The posted speed limit of the designated public roadway is 35 miles
per hour or less;
   (C)   The operator of the golf cart does not cross a roadway at an
intersection where the roadway being crossed has a posted speed limit of more
than 35 miles per hour;
   (D)   The operator has a valid operator’s license in his or her possession
and is 19 years of age or older;
   (E)   The headlights and taillights are on during operation.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 8-1-2022) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.04 CITY ROADS.
   The following roads under the jurisdiction of the city may be used for the
operation of golf carts:
   1st Street,
   2nd Street,
   Birdie Court,
   Bogey Court,
   Boxwood Court,
   Brightview Drive,
   Buckman Station Court,
   Cardinal Drive,
   Cedar Court,
   Clubhouse Lane,
   Champions Circle,
   Champions Way,
   Citizens Boulevard,
   Cottonwood Court
   Countryside Drive,
   Crum Court,
   Dean Taylor Court,
   Elm Street,
   Evergreen Way,
   Fairview Drive,
   Fibles Run Court,
   Garden Pointe Drive,
   Garden Street,
   Grand Central Drive,
   Greens Drive,
   Hogan Court,
   Ironwood Court,
   Jurich Court,
   Lakeshore Drive,
   Lincoln Station Drive,
   Links Drive,
   Main Street,
   Maple Ridge Court,
   Meadow Bridge,
   Oak Ridge Court,
   Oak Street,
   Old Veechdale Road,
   Par Court,
   Reserves Court Spur,
   Ridge Top Court,
   Rolling Ridge Circle
   Rolling Ridge Way,
   Spring Street,
   Station Pointe Lane,
   Station Way.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 8-1-2022) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.05 RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATION.
   (A)   A golf cart operating under this chapter shall be inspected by a
Police Department inspector, certified through the Department of Vehicle
Regulation, to ensure that the vehicle complies with the requirements of KRS
189.286. Additionally, each golf cart must have the following equipment:
      (1)   Headlamps;
      (2)   Tail lamps;
      (3)   Stop lamps;
      (4)   Front and rear turn signals;
      (5)   One reflex reflector on each side as far to the rear as
practicable, and one red reflex reflector on the rear;
      (6)   An exterior mirror mounted on the driver’s side of the golf cart,
and either an exterior mirror mounted on the passenger’s side of the golf car
or an interior mirror;
      (7)   A parking brake;
      (8)   For each seat, a seatbelt assembly that conforms to the federal
motor vehicle safety standard provided in 49 C.F.R. § 571.209;
      (9)   A horn that meets the requirements of KRS 189.080;
      (10)   A slow-moving vehicle emblem in compliance with KRS 189.820.
   (B)   Any vehicle operating under this chapter shall:
      (1)   Be issued a permit by the city;
      (2)   Obtain as sticker or permit from the city for an annual fee of $25.
The permit and sticker are valid each year from May 1 to April 30 of the
following year;
      (3)   Display a sticker or permit that identifies that the vehicle is
allowed to be operated on specific roadways within the city;
      (4)   Keep the proof of inspection or permit issued by the Police
Department in the vehicle at all times of operation on a public roadway. This
permit shall be valid so long as the original permittee owns the vehicle; and
      (5)   Be insured by the owner or operator in compliance with KRS 304.39-
080. The proof of insurance shall be inside the vehicle at all times it is
operated on a public roadway.
   (C)   The operator of a vehicle under this chapter shall have a valid
operator’s license in his or her possession and shall comply with all
applicable traffic regulations, including the use of a properly adjusted and
fastened seat belt for the driver and all passengers in compliance with KRS.
189.125.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle under this chapter:
      (1)   Unless the vehicle has at least one headlight and two taillights,
illuminated at all times while the vehicle is in operation or, in the
alternative, the vehicle displays a slow-moving vehicle emblem in compliance
with KRS 189.820;
      (2)   On any sidewalk intended for pedestrian travel;
      (3)   On any school grounds; and
      (4)   On or across the private property of another without the express
written and dated permission of that property owner.
   (E)   A golf cart may only be parked on hard surface pavement in parking
spaces and in parking spaces designated by the city in its parks. It may not be
parked on city sidewalks.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 8-1-2022) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $50 and not more than $500.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 8-1-2022)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ANIMALS
         
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
92.   NUISANCES
         
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
         
94.   LITTERING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.04   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.05   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.06   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
Dogs
   
90.20   Definition
   
90.21   License required
   
90.22   Registration and issuance of license
   
90.23   License tag to be attached to dog
   
90.24   Dogs running at large
   
90.25   Noise disturbance
   
90.26   Impoundment
   
90.27   Reclaiming impounded dog
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. Shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and claims by the
owner to the animal.
(KRS 257.100 (4))
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain or otherwise.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
§ 90.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or permit it to go on any private yard, lot or enclosure without the
consent of the owner of the yard, lot or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by the animal upon the premises
of another.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when,
except as authorized by law, he or she intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in §
90.03 in causing it to fight for pleasure or profit, (including, but not
limited to being a spectator or vendor at an event where a four legged animal
is caused to fight for pleasure or profit) mutilation, beating, torturing any
animal other than a dog or cat, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food,
drink, space or health care or by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his or her custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This section shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including but not
limited to horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows, or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with U.S. Department of Agriculture
under the Animal Welfare Act or subject to other federal laws governing animal
research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
   (C)   Activities of animals engaged in hunting, field trials, dog training
other than training a dog to fight for pleasure or profit, and other activities
authorized either by a hunting license or by the Department of Fish and
Wildlife shall not constitute a violation of this section.
   (D)   (1)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to an offense under
division (A) of this section arising from the person’s treatment of an equine,
the court may impose one or both of the following penalties against the person,
in addition to fines and imprisonment:
         (a)   An order that the person pay restitution for damage to the
property of others and for costs incurred by others, including reasonable
costs, as determined by agreement or by the court after a hearing, incurred in
feeding, sheltering, veterinary treatment, and incidental care of any equine
that was the subject of the offense resulting in conviction; or
         (b)   An order terminating or imposing conditions on the person’s
right to possession, title, custody, or care of any equine that was the subject
of the offense resulting in conviction.
      (2)   If a person’s ownership interest in an equine is terminated by a
judicial order under division (D)(1)(b) of this section, the court may order
the sale, conveyance, or other disposition of the equine that was the subject
of the offense resulting in conviction.
(KRS 525.130) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 90.04 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits, under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, animal control officer, or any person authorized by
the Board of Agriculture may destroy or kill or cause to be destroyed or
killed, any animal found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or
appearing to be injured, diseased or suffering past recovery for any useful
purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian, or of two reputable citizens called by him or
her to view the animal in his or her presence, or shall obtain consent to the
destruction from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or his
or her agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or
his or her agent at his last known address, shall be deemed to be abandoned and
may be turned over to the nearest humane society or animal shelter or disposed
of as the custodian may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed veterinarian, shall relieve the licensed veterinarian
and any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
(KRS 257.100)
DOGS
§ 90.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
§ 90.21 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep a dog or dogs in the city
without first obtaining a license for each dog. This section and §
90.22 shall not apply to dogs whose owners are non-residents temporarily within
the city for a period less than 30 days.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 REGISTRATION AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All dogs kept in the city shall be registered as to sex, breed, name
and address of the owner and name of the dog. At the time of the registration,
the owner shall obtain a license tag for the dog and shall pay a fee as
established by the City Commission for each dog.
   (B)   The license tag shall be valid for one year from the date of issue. A
new tag shall be obtained each year by every owner and a new fee paid.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 LICENSE TAG TO BE ATTACHED TO DOG.
   The license tag shall be fastened to the collar of the dog and shall be worn
continuously and the failure to have the tag so attached shall subject the
owner or keeper thereof to the penalties provided herein.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog, either licensed or
unlicensed, regardless of the age of the dog, to allow the dog to be at large
and unattended or to run in any street, park, lawn, garden, schoolyard,
playground or on any other public or private property.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25 NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the city which, by frequent
and habitual barking, howling or yelping, creates unreasonably loud and
disturbing noises of such a character, intensity, and duration as to disturb
the peace, quiet and good order of one or more of the inhabitants of two or
more separate residences. Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to
remain, be lodged or fed within any dwelling, yard or enclosure which he
occupies or owns shall be considered as harboring the dog.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every police officer, peace officer, or other authorized official shall have
the authority to apprehend any dog running at large in violation of this
chapter and any unlicensed dog in the city, and to impound the dog or have such
dog impounded in the appropriate place.
§ 90.27 RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED DOG.
   The owner of any dog so impounded may reclaim the dog upon the payment of
all appropriate fees and after fulfilling any and all other requirements.
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day
the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
90.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500,
imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both for each offense.
(KRS 525.130)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
90.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100,
nor more than $500.
(KRS 436.600)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
91.01   Opening permit required
   
91.02   Application and cash deposit
   
91.03   Restoration of pavement
   
91.04   Barriers around excavations
   
91.05   Warning lights
   
91.06   Sidewalk construction
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.15   Public meeting required
   
91.16   Notice requirements
   
91.17   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
91.18   Meeting to be held prior to construction
   
91.19   Separate meeting for each project not required
   
91.20   Exemptions from meeting requirement
Obstructions
   
91.30   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.31   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.32   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.33   Removal of ice and snow
Rules and Regulations Concerning Streets and Sidewalks
   
91.40   Location records
   
91.41   Appeal
   
91.42   Sidewalks; owner's responsibility for repair
   
91.43   Notice to owner to undertake repairs
   
91.44   Property owner responsible for work
   
91.45   Inspection of work by city
   
91.46   Work done by city; interest; lien
   
91.47   Streetscape plan
   
91.48   Design specifications of sidewalks in streetscape area
 
   
91.99   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the City Commission or other authorized city official.
Application shall be made on a form prescribed by the City Commission, giving
the exact location of the proposed opening, the kind of paving, the area and
depth to be excavated and such other facts as may be provided for. The permit
shall be issued only after a cash deposit sufficient to cover the cost of
restoration has been posted with the City Commission or other authorized city
official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of excavations and
restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 91.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the City Commission or
other authorized city official, and in accordance with rules, regulations and
specifications approved by the City Commission.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make the fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
91.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon, the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate city fund, except the part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of the services performed by the city
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the City Clerk or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
§ 91.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the authorized city official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the City Commission for approval.
   (B)   When the specifications are approved, the City Commission shall
advertise for proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the city in
construction and repair of sidewalks, and shall contract therefor for a period
not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who shall furnish
good and sufficient sureties for the faithful performance of the work. The City
Commission may make separate contracts for the different kinds of work with
different parties.
Statutory reference:
   Sidewalks; construction along public roads; specifications, see KRS 178.290
   Sidewalks; ramps for wheelchairs, see KRS 66.660
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.15 PUBLIC MEETING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state-derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street or bridge, it shall provide an opportunity to the public to
provide input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS
61.823(2) to (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax
moneys for road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 91.16 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state-derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a specific
item on the public meeting agenda.
(KRS 174.100(1))
§ 91.17 PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   At the meeting, the city shall allow any person to speak with regard to any
proposed project, any project which he or she feels should be built or done
which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of projects, and any
other matter related to road or bridge projects. The city shall not be bound by
the comments and input provided at the meeting, but shall give due
consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100(1), (2))
§ 91.18 MEETING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state-derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting as provided in this
subchapter has been held.
(KRS 174.100(3))
§ 91.19 SEPARATE MEETING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting for
each project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
if all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the meeting,
shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(4))
§ 91.20 EXEMPTIONS FROM MEETING REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or man-caused disasters
nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100(5))
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.30 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see
Chapter 94
§ 91.33 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his premises free and clear of snow and ice to the extent
feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove therefrom all
snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions,
accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily not exceed
12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and ice may
have accumulated.
Penalty, see §
91.99
RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
§ 91.40 LOCATION RECORDS.
   All utilities shall maintain records showing the location within five feet
of all their respective underground facilities, excluding only relatively minor
facilities which connect a particular premise or building to a facility serving
more than one premise or building. All utilities shall maintain equipment which
can locate the facilities in the field.
(Ord. 2009-003, passed 4-7-2009)
§ 91.41 APPEAL.
   (A)   If any person making or intending to make any excavation in a public
way is aggrieved by any action taken or conditions imposed by any city
official, he or she may appeal to the City Commission by letter to the Mayor:
      (1)   Stating his or her grievance; and
      (2)   Explaining the urgency, if any, of his or her work.
   (B)   The Mayor shall inform the City Commission in public forum to consider
the appeal upon the notice as the exigencies of the situation demand.
(Ord. 2009-003, passed 4-7-2009)
§ 91.42 SIDEWALKS; OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY FOR REPAIR.
   (A)   Every person owning real property in the city is charged with the
responsibility of maintaining and shall maintain and keep in proper repair that
portion of the sidewalk which parallels or abuts the street immediately in
front of, along side of, or in the rear of said person's real property. The
following sidewalk conditions are determined to be contrary to general welfare
and require the sidewalk blocks, including bricks and paving stones, in such
condition to be repaired or the condition to be alleviated:
      (1)   Any block having a crack or cracks in it more than five-eighths-
inch wide;
      (2)   Adjoining blocks or portions thereof whose edges differ vertically
more than five-eighths-inch;
      (3)   Blocks that have boles in them five-eighths-inch or more in
diameter or are cracked and broken so that pieces are missing or lost;
      (4)   Blocks having depressions, reverse cross-slope (sloping away from
the street) below curb grade so as to impound mud or water;
      (5)   Blocks having a cross slope in excess of one-half-inch vertical per
one foot horizontal;
      (6)   Blocks that cause an abrupt change in the longitudinal grade of the
sidewalk;
      (7)   Blocks that are raveled, i.e., the surface has spalled or severely
cracked;
      (8)   Blocks containing stumps, private sign posts or other unauthorized
obstructions in the sidewalks space;
      (9)   Blocks containing water stop boxes, gas stop boxes or similar items
that are not at grade level.
      (10)   Sidewalks located:
         (a)   So that the sod area between the sidewalk and the street
protrudes above the sidewalk thereby impounding water or causing water to drain
along the sidewalk; or
         (b)   So that the sod areas on either side of the sidewalk is below
the grade of the sidewalk.
   (B)   Any owner who shall fail to repair defective sidewalks shall be
personally liable in a civil action for any personal injury or property damage
proximately resulting therefrom.
(Ord. 2009-003, passed 4-7-2009)
§ 91.43 NOTICE TO OWNER TO UNDERTAKE REPAIRS.
   When any block of sidewalk or sidewalk area requires repair in accordance
with §
91.42, the Superintendent of Public Works or his or her designee shall notify
in writing the persons owning the real estate who are responsible for repairing
the blocks of the sidewalk or sidewalk area under the provisions of §
91.42 to effect such repairs commencing within 30 days and completing repairs
within 60 days of the date of mailing of notice to the last known address of
the owner of the real estate. Records maintained by the Shelby County Property
Valuation Administrator may be relied upon to determine the identity and
address of the owner of the real estate. Receipt of the notice shall be
presumed conclusively unless and until notification of a change of address of
such owners is received by the city.
(Ord. 2009-003, passed 4-7-2009)
§ 91.44 PROPERTY OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR WORK.
   Within the time set forth in §
91.43, any person thereby affected shall commence and complete the sidewalk
repairs in an orderly and workmanlike manner in accordance with design
standards for new sidewalks under applicable subdivision regulations. The costs
of repairs shall be borne by the persons responsible under the provisions of §
91.42.
(Ord. 2009-003, passed 4-7-2009)
§ 91.45 INSPECTION OF WORK BY CITY.
   If, in the judgment of the Superintendent of Public Works, the work
performed by the persons responsible under §
91.42 is unsatisfactory, or has not been performed in accordance with the
applicable design specifications, the Superintendent of Public Works or his or
her designee shall give written notice to the persons responsible and shall
proceed under the provisions of §
91.46.
(Ord. 2009-003, passed 4-7-2009)
§ 91.46 WORK DONE BY CITY; INTEREST; LIEN.
   (A)   Upon failure of the persons responsible under §
91.42 to complete repair of the blocks of sidewalk or the sidewalk area within
the time specified, the city may undertake, without further notification to the
owner to make such repairs at the expense of the persons responsible. Upon
completion of the work by the city, the city shall notify and bill the
responsible persons for the costs therein incurred, plus an administration
charge equal to 20% of the costs. This total charge together with interest at
6% per annum on the unpaid balance commencing from the date of the bill until
paid shall be due and owing to the city by the responsible persons and shall
constitute and be a lien on the real estate to secure payment in full. If
payment is made in full within 30 days after the date of the bill, interest
will be waived and a discount equal to 10% of the total charges shall be
credited against the bill.
   (B)   If any sum due hereunder is not paid within 30 days after the date of
the bill, the sum shall then become subject to interest and penalty the same as
for ad valorem real estate taxes and shall be collected in the same manner and
by the same methods and remedies as ad valorem city taxes.
(Ord. 2009-003, passed 4-7-2009)
§ 91.47 STREETSCAPE PLAN.
   A streetscape plan will be established for the physical improvement of the
downtown area, which consists of an area along US 60, Shelbyville Road, in the
city limits of Simpsonville, Kentucky.
(Ord. 2009-003, passed 4-7-2009)
§ 91.48 DESIGN SPECIFICATIONS OF SIDEWALKS IN STREETSCAPE AREA.
   Due to the potential variations in sidewalks from block to block, the design
specifications for the new sidewalks, curbs and paver strips shall vary from
block to block. The design specifications for each block shall be determined by
the City Engineer. No property owner shall alter the City Engineer's design
specifications
(Ord. 2009-003, passed 4-7-2009)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $500.
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.03   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
92.04   Abatement procedure
   
92.05   Nuisance created by others
   
92.06   Suspension of license
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Private nuisances, see KRS 411.500 through 411.570
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS. Any portion or parts of any motor driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time. (KRS 65.8840(1)(e))
   INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Unable to move under its own power due to defective
or missing parts, and which has remained in such condition for a period of not
less than ten consecutive days.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any style or type of motor driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any act, thing, occupation, condition or use of property
which shall continue for such a length of time as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure or endanger the comfort, health, repose
or safety of the public;
      (2)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or tend to
obstruct or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
stream, ditch or drainage; or
      (3)   Essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property or tend to depreciate the value of property of others.
   SCRAP METAL. Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum or
any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE. In a dangerous condition; having defective or missing
parts; or in such a condition generally as to be unfit for further use as a
conveyance.
§ 92.02 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of Kentucky as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided
in this chapter or in accordance with any other provision of law.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or person having control
or management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance to
develop thereon.
   (B)   The following conditions are declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street. Any tree, stack or
other object standing in such a condition that it will, if the condition is
allowed to continue, endanger the life, limb or property of, or cause hurt,
damage or injury to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways
adjacent thereto, by the falling thereof or of parts thereof.
      (2)   Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage, or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful enjoyment
by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger that it will
catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents or insects, or
blow rubbish into any street, sidewalk or property of another.
      (3)   Storage of explosives. The storage of explosive material which
creates a safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity.
      (4)   Weeds and grass. The excessive growth of weeds, grass or other
vegetation. Unless otherwise provided, EXCESSIVE shall mean growth to a height
of 12 inches or more.
      (5)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation or vault situated upon private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place.
      (6)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets, sidewalks and drainage.
The growing and maintenance of trees or shrubbery which in any way interferes
with the use, construction or maintenance of streets or sidewalks, causes
injury to streets or sidewalks, or constitutes an obstruction to drainage.
      (7)   Keeping of animals. The failure to keep an animal's pen, yard, lot
or other enclosure in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive
odors.
      (8)   Junk; scrap metal; motor vehicles. The storage of motor vehicles in
an inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for further use, automobile
parts or scrap metal within the city limits, except on premises authorized by
the city for such purposes.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any local government may establish by ordinance reasonable standards
and procedures for the enforcement of this section. The procedures shall comply
with all applicable statutes, administrative regulations, or codes. Any
ordinance establishing these procedures may be enforced by any means authorized
by law. Proper notice shall be given to owners before any action is taken
pursuant to this section, and, prior to the demolition of any unfit or unsafe
structure, the right to a hearing shall be afforded the owner.
   (B)   Unless imminent danger exists on the subject premises that
necessitates immediate action, the city shall send, within 14 days of a final
determination after hearing or waiver of hearing by the owner, a copy of the
determination to any lien holder of record of the subject premises by first-
class mail with proof of mailing. The lien holder of record may, within 45 days
from receipt of that notice, correct the violations cited or elect to pay all
civil fines assessed for the violation and all charges and fees incurred by the
city in connection with the enforcement of the ordinance, including abatement
costs, as permitted by subsection KRS 65.8840(8).
(KRS 65.8840(6), (7))
   (C)   Notification; abatement of nuisance.  
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Commissioner of Public Safety and
Health to serve or cause to be served a notice on the owner, authorized agent,
occupant, or person responsible, of any premises on which there is kept or
maintained any nuisance in violation of the provision of this chapter. Such
notice shall describe the nuisance so maintained and shall demand abatement of
the nuisance within five days of notice, unless the nuisance constitutes an
immediate danger to the health, safety, and well-being of the community, in
which case notice shall demand abatement within 24 hours of notice.
      (2)   Notice in writing shall be served on responsible persons as stated
above by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service.
(Ord. 2008-004, passed 2-20-2008)
§ 92.05 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care ought to have become aware of.
§ 92.06 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Whenever it is shown that a nuisance is associated with or caused by
the conduct of a business or activity licensed by the city and that the
existence of the nuisance presents an immediate threat to the public health,
safety or welfare, the City Commission may suspend the license of the person or
persons conducting the business or activity.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall cause a notice of the suspension to be served
personally upon the licensee, or upon any responsible agent of the licensee, at
the premises where the licensed business or activity is being conducted. The
notice shall clearly inform the licensee of the reason for the suspension, and
the conditions that must be met for the suspension to be removed.
   (C)   Upon application of the licensee, and upon a showing that the nuisance
has been satisfactorily abated and that any other reasonable conditions set
forth in the notice have been met, the City Commission may remove the
suspension.
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day's
continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
93.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
93.03   Common fireworks; restrictions on sale
   
93.04   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
93.05   Exempted sales and uses
   
93.06   Destruction of fireworks
   
93.07   Regulating use and hours of fireworks
Fire Prevention
   
93.20   Blasting permit
   
93.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, FIREWORKS means any composition or
device for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by
combustion, deflagration, or detonation, and which meets the definition of
“consumer fireworks”as defined in division (B) or “display” fireworks as
defined in division (D) and as set forth in the U.S. Department of
Transportation's (DOT) hazardous materials regulations.
      (1)   Exception number 1: Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to said regulations, are not
considered to be fireworks and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times.
      (2)   Exception number 2: Model rockets and model rocket motors designed,
sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models are not
considered to be fireworks.
      (3)   Exception number 3: Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a
mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and saltpeter are not considered as being designed
for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   As used in KRS 227.700 through 227.750, COMMON FIREWORKS means
fireworks that are suitable for use by the public, designed primarily to
produce visible effects by combustion, and comply with the construction,
chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the U.S. Consumer Product
Safety Commission. The types, sizes, and amount of pyrotechnic contents of
these devices are limited as enumerated in this chapter. Some small devices
designed to produce audible effects are included, such as whistling devices,
ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive composition, and
aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive composition.
CONSUMER FIREWORKS are further defined by the Consumer Product Safety
Commission in CPSC, 16 CPSC, 16 C.F.R. Pts 1500 and 1507, are classified as
division 1.4 explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation and include
the following:
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. These devices consist a
metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition.
Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is produced.
Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed five
grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which contain no
magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are not
included in this category, in accordance with DOT regulations.
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
75 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of colored sparks,
and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This device may be
provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or
plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard
handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than one tube
is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200
grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a
distance of at least 1/2 inch.
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to 50
grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain. When more than one cone is mounted on a common base, the
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams of the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least 1/
2 inch.
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is produced. May be
spike, base, or hand-held. When more than one tube is mounted on a common base,
the total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least 1/
2 inch.
         (e)   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or
string. A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel contain more than 200
grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the wheel revolves,
producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling effect.
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is produced by
the rapidly spinning device.
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is
ignited to make the device function.
         (h)   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces
white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wooden
stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst
of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight.
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability.
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached, which, upon
ignition, lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible
effect is produced at the height of flight.
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to 20
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten stars (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several second intervals.
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, “stars,” components producing reports containing
up to 130 milligrams of explosive composition per report, or other devices are
propelled into the air. The term “mine” refers to a device with no internal
components containing a bursting charge, and the term “shell” refers to a
device that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in the air. A
mine or shell device may contain more than one tube provided the tubes fire in
sequence upon ignition of one external fuse. The term “cake” refers to a dense-
packed collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical composition including
lift charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed 200 grams. The maximum
quantity of lift charge in any one tube of a mine or shell device shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quality of break or bursting charge in any
component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in
the component.
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE, or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, bust charge, and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed 1 3/4 inches. In addition, the maximum quantity of lift charge in any
shell shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting
charge in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical
composition in the shell. The total chemical composition of all the shells in
the kit, including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams. The user lower a
shell into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fusing extending
out of the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then reloaded with
another shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be capable of
firing twice the number of shells in the kit without failure of the tube. Each
package of multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning label
requirements of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced.
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50
milligrams.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed below are classified as NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS
and are not classified as consumer fireworks by the U.S. Department of
Transportation and their transportation, storage, retail sale, possession,
sale, and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times.
      (1)   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake- like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as
the pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2)   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (3)   Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed 100 grams of composition per item. Devices
containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams of
composition per item.
      (4)   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include:
         (a)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than 16 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report.
         (b)   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
         (c)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes producing a small report.
         (d)   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
         (e)   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced.
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams may also be used to produce a small
report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   As used in KRS 227.700 through 227.750, DISPLAY FIREWORKS means
pyrotechnic devices or large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration or detonation. This term includes,
but is not limited to, firecrackers containing more than two grains (130
milligrams) of explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than 40
grams of pyrotechnic composition, and other display pieces which exceed the
limits for classification as consumer fireworks. Display fireworks are defined
by the Consumer Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. Pts. 1500 and
1507, and are classified as class B explosives by the U.S. Department of
Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   Legality of items.
      (1)    Items described in division (B)(1) above are legal for retail sale
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
      (2)   Items described in divisions (B)(2), (B)(3), and (D) are not legal
for retail sale but are legal under permits granted pursuant to this chapter
for the purposes specified in this chapter for public displays and may be sold
at wholesale as provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) are legal for retail sale provided
all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are met.
(KRS 227.708)
§ 93.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, co-partnership or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, keep with intent to sell, possess, use, or explode,
any display fireworks, except as follows:
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department or other authorized city
official may grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the
city, fair associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of
individuals.
      (2)   Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator to
be approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be
of such character, and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or endanger
any person.
      (3)   COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks display. The
competent display operator shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives (ATF) License and have participated as an assistant in firing at
least five public displays. A “competent display operator” is also an employee
possessor. A permit under division (1) shall be issued only to a competent
display operator holding an ATF license.
      (4)   At least one competent display operator shall be on site during
display set-up and firing. This complement display operator shall maintain a
copy of the permit application, as signed by the local authority having
jurisdiction as identified in this section, on site and at all times the
display is in place, and shall be presented on demand of the State Fire Marshal
or local Fire Chief. All public displays that require issuance of a permit
shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of National Fire
Protection Association (NEPA) 1123 Code for Fireworks Display (adopted
edition).
      (5)   Permits shall be filed with the office of the State Fire Marshal at
least 15 days in advance of the date of the display. After this privilege shall
have been granted, sales, possession, use and distribution of fireworks for the
display shall be lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted under this
subsection shall be transferable. For the purpose of this section, “public
display of fireworks” shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or
pyrotechnic materials before a proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors.
      (6)   Any person remaining within the display area shall be identified as
licensed by the ATF, or an employee thereof, or be an assistant in training to
become a competent display operator. All persons remaining within the display
area shall be at least 18 years of age.
      (7)   The Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction with recommendation from the State Fire Marshal shall promulgate
administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A to administer the
provisions of this division. The regulations shall address the process by which
permits are issued and any other procedures that are reasonably necessary to
effectuate this division.
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and
Firearms, and Explosives if the sale is to a person holding a display permit as
outlined in subsection (A) of this section. The permit holder shall present the
permit along with other verifiable identification at the time of sale.
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.
   (D)   The sale, and use in emergency situations, of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation, and highway use.
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads.
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports.
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations.
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-partnership,
non-profit, or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling
at retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing or using consumer fireworks
as defined in KRS 227.702 as permitted pursuant to KRS 227.715.
(KRS 227.710) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 COMMON FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS ON SALE.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
93.02, the consumer fireworks described in KRS 227.702 may be offered for sale,
sold at retail, or kept with the intent to sell, only if the requirements of
this section are met.
   (B)   Any person firm, co-partnership, non-profit, or business intending to
sell consumer fireworks described in KRS 227.702(1) shall register annually
with the State Fire Marshal's office in accordance with KRS 227.715, and
display its registration certificate in a conspicuous location at the site.
   (C)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall comply with
all applicable provisions of the International Building Code, with Kentucky
Amendments (adopted edition), and NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection
Association) Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, Storage, and Retail
Sales of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles (adopted addition);
   (D)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or sell any consumer
fireworks listed in §
93.01(B) to any person under 18 years of age.
   (E)   No person under 18 years of age may be employed by a fireworks
distribution facility, or manufacturing facility. No person under 18 years of
age shall sell consumer fireworks at a consumer fireworks retail sales facility
registered under KRS 227.715 unless the individual is supervised by a parent or
guardian.
(KRS 227.715 (7) through (9)) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 93.04 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
93.02 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than $1,000,000. However, the appropriate city official or the
state's Fire Marshal may require a larger amount if in their judgment the
situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of all damages which may be
caused thereby either to a person or to property by reason of the permitted
display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his or her agents,
employees or subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry, or
gold star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate, toy
snakes which contain no mercury, smoke novelties and party novelties, which
contain less than twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture, or
shells or cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms, or blank cartridges for a
show or theater or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports, or
for use by military organizations, or the sale of any kind of fireworks
provided the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730)
§ 93.06 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the state fire marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter. After a period of 60 days,
the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of 60 days, the seized fireworks may be offered for
sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor, or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or “Display”
designation shall require the notification of the United States Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. The state fire marshal shall provide
the owner or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of any
fireworks seized within five business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the state fire
marshal, the state fire marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the state fire marshal's intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire Marshal's
intent. The state fire marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the state fire marshal, the state fire marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal's intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for
three consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks within
ten days of the date of the last publication, the state fire marshal may
proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the fireworks
within ten days of the date of the last publication, a hearing as set out in
division (A) shall be held.
   (D)   Nothing in KRS 227.700 to 227.750 shall restrict a local government
from enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks within its
jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750)
§ 93.07 REGULATING USE AND HOURS OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The use or sale of any firecrackers, skyrockets, or any other
explosives ordinarily known and referred to as “fireworks” or “consumer
fireworks” (as those terms are defined in KRS Chapter 227) are prohibited
except as set forth herein.
   (B)   “Fireworks” or “consumer fireworks” (as those terms are defined in KRS
Chapter 227) shall not be fired, exploded, or used, in the city limits, except
as follows:
      (1)   “Fireworks” or “consumer fireworks” (as those terms are defined in
KRS Chapter 227) may be used, fired, or exploded on July 3 and July 4 of each
year between the hours of 12:00 noon and 12:00 midnight.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, and
regardless of the day of the week on which the Fourth of July falls, persons
are allowed to use, fire, or explode fireworks on any other date specifically
named or designated by the City Commission of the city as the date to celebrate
the Fourth of July festivities, if other than the actual date of July 4th.
      (3)   The sale of any fireworks within the city limits must comply with
all state statutes and regulations and specifically with KRS Chapter 227.
(Ord. 2012-004, passed 6-5-2012)  Penalty, see §
93.99
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation and receiving a permit to blast from the City Commission or
other authorized city official. The City Commission or other authorized city
official, before granting the permit may require the applicant to provide a
bond to indemnify the city and all other persons against injury or damages
which might result from the proposed blasting.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior or any material of
a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any other
portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall be
provided for the hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.02 or
93.03, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both.
(KRS 227.990(4))
   (B)   Any person who violates any other provision of this chapter shall be
fined not more than $500.
   (C)   Any person, firm, business, partnership or corporation that violates
any provision of § 93.07 shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $200.
(Am. Ord. 2012-004, passed 6-5-2012)
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
94.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
94.03   Hauling loose material
   
94.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
94.05   Litter on private property
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley or other
public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of any
kind.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk
or other public place shall haul it, or cause it to be hauled in vehicles
provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of
the contents from falling or being thrown, blown or deposited upon any street,
alley, sidewalk or other public place. Any materials which fall from, or which
are thrown, blown or deposited from any vehicle upon any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public place, shall be removed immediately by the person in
charge of the vehicle.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city whether owned by that person or not.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day the violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
         
111.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
         
112.   PAWNBROKERS
         
113.   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
         
114.   TAX ON INSURANCE PREMIUMS
         
115.   JOB DEVELOPMENT INCENTIVES
         
116.   RESTAURANT TAX
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain trades, businesses or
professions
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Standards; issuance of license
   
110.04   Date and duration of license
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.07   Revocation or suspension
   
110.08   Appeal and review
   
110.09   Exemptions
   
110.10   Offsite display of new motor vehicles
Occupational Licensing Tax
   
110.25   Definitions
   
110.26   License application required
   
110.27   Occupational license tax payment required
   
110.28   Apportionment
   
110.29   Employers to withhold
   
110.30   Returns required
   
110.31   Extensions
   
110.32   Refunds
   
110.33   Federal audit provisions
   
110.34   Administrative provisions
   
110.35   Information to remain confidential
   
110.36   Use of occupational license tax
   
110.37   Quarterly estimated payments
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRADES, BUSINESSES OR
PROFESSIONS.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses or professions for
which licenses are required by any provision of this code or any other
ordinance of the city without first applying for and obtaining a license from
the City Clerk or other duly authorized issuing authority.
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the City Clerk in writing upon forms to be furnished
by him or her and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and of each officer, partner or business
associate;
      (2)   His or her present occupation and place of business;
      (3)   His or her place of residence for five years next preceding the
date of application;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   A description of the merchandise to be sold, if for a vendor; and
      (7)   Any other information concerning the applicant and his or her
business as may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the
license desired.
   (B)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing upon the original application unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful knowingly to make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 STANDARDS; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the application for a license, accompanied by the
proper fee, if approval by another officer or department is not required, the
City Clerk shall forthwith deposit the fee in the General Fund of the city and
issue to the applicant a proper license certificate signed by the City Clerk
and any other appropriate city official. If, for any reason, the license is not
issued, the license fee shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant's
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (C)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character will constitute valid reasons
for disapproval of an application.
§ 110.04 DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein
specified and, unless otherwise provided, shall not extend beyond December 31
of the year issued. However, at any time after December 14 licenses may be
issued for the ensuing calendar year. Unless otherwise specified, the full
annual fee will be required of licensees irrespective of the date of issue of
the license.
   (B)   In no event shall a license be granted to any business or any person
for a longer time than one year.
§ 110.05 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business and, unless otherwise provided, no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep posted in
a prominent place upon the licensed premises the license certificate. Other
licensees shall carry their license certificates at all times and, whenever
requested by any officer or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license may be revoked by the City Commission at any time for
conditions or considerations which, had they existed at the time of issuance,
would have been valid grounds for its denial; for any misrepresentation of a
material fact in the application discovered after issuance of the license; for
violation of any provision of this chapter or other law or ordinance relating
to the operation of the business or enterprise for which the license has been
issued; or upon conviction of a licensee for any federal, state or municipal
law or ordinance involving moral turpitude.
   (B)   The revocation shall become effective upon notice served upon the
licensee or posted upon the premises affected.
   (C)   As a preliminary to revocation, the City Commission may issue an order
suspending the license, which shall become effective immediately upon service
of written notice to the licensee. This notice shall specify the reason for
suspension, and may provide conditions under which reinstatement of the license
may be obtained. Upon compliance with these conditions within the time
specified, the license may be restored.
§ 110.08 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   In case any applicant has been denied a license or if his or her license has
been revoked or suspended, the applicant or licensee, as the case may be, shall
within three business days have the right to appeal to the City Commission from
the denial, revocation or suspension. Notice of appeal shall be filed in
writing with the City Clerk who shall fix the time and place for a hearing
which shall be held not later than one week thereafter. The City Clerk shall
notify the City Commission of the time and place of the hearing not less than
24 hours in advance thereof. A majority of the City Commission members shall
constitute a quorum to hear the appeal. The appellant may appear and be heard
in person or by counsel. If, after hearing, a majority of the members of the
City Commission present at the meeting declare in favor of the applicant, the
license shall be issued or fully reinstated, as the case may be; otherwise, the
order appealed from shall become final.
§ 110.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any business, occupation
or profession which is exempt from municipal licensing and/or license taxes
pursuant to state or federal law.
§ 110.10 OFFSITE DISPLAY OF NEW MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Offsite display of motor vehicles are permitted within the city by auto
dealerships on developed properties, upon the following conditions:
   (A)   There be no more than six vehicles on display at one time;
   (B)   The displayed vehicles shall be no closer than 50 feet to the property
line;
   (C)   Display of new vehicles only;
   (D)   Proper permission must be received from the property owner(s) of any
developed property where this display will take place; and
   (E)   This authorization cannot violate any other rules and regulations of
Kentucky Revised Statutes or Triple S Planning and Zoning regulations.
(Ord. 2014-010, passed 7-16-2014)
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSING TAX
§ 110.25 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, the following terms and their derivatives shall
have the following meanings unless the context clearly indicates that a
different meaning is intended:
   BUSINESS. Any enterprise, activity, trade, occupation, profession or
undertaking of any nature conducted for gain or profit. BUSINESS shall not
include a board of trade, chambers of commerce, trade associations, or unions,
or other associations performing services usually performed by trade
associations or unions as recognized by the Internal Revenue Service. BUSINESS
shall not include funds, foundations, corporations, or associations organized
and operated for the exclusive and sole purpose of religious, charitable,
scientific, literary, educational, civic or fraternal purposes, where no part
of the earnings, incomes or receipts of such unit, group, or association,
inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or other person.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. Each separate corporation, limited liability company,
business development corporation, partnership, limited partnership, registered
limited liability partnership, sole proprietorship, association, joint stock
company, receivership, trust, professional service organization, or other legal
entity through which business is conducted.
   CITY. The City of Simpsonville, Kentucky.
   COMPENSATION. Wages, salaries, commissions, or any other form of
remuneration paid or payable by an employer for services performed by an
employee, which are required to be reported for Federal income tax purposes and
adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any retirement,
profit sharing, or deferred compensation plan, which are deferred for Federal
income tax purposes under a salary reduction agreement or similar arrangement,
including but not limited to salary reduction arrangements under Section 401
(a), 401(k), 402(e), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 414(h), or 457 of the Internal
Revenue Code; and
      (2)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any welfare
benefit, fringe benefit, or other benefit plan made by salary reduction or
other payment method which permits employees to elect to reduce Federal taxable
compensation under the Internal Revenue Code, including but not limited to
Sections 125 and 132 of the Internal Revenue Code.
   CONCLUSION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The date that the adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service to net income as reported on the business entity’s
Federal income tax return become final and unappealable.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who renders services to another person or any business
entity for compensation, including an officer of a corporation and any officer,
employee, or elected official of the United States, a state, or any political
subdivision of a state, or any agency of instrumentality of any one or more of
the above. A person classified as an independent contractor under the Internal
Revenue Code shall not be considered an employee.
   EMPLOYER. The person for whom an individual performs or performed any
service, of whatever nature, as the employee of such person, except that:
      (1)   If the person for whom the individual performs or performed the
services does not have control of the payment of the wages for such services,
the term EMPLOYER means the person having control of the payment of such wages;
and
      (2)   In the case of a person paying wages on behalf of a nonresident
alien individual, foreign partnership, or foreign corporation, not engaged in
trade or business within the United States, the term EMPLOYER means such
person.
   FINAL DETERMINATION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The revenue agent’s report or
other documents reflecting the final and unappealable adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service.
   FISCAL YEAR. Means fiscal year as defined in Section 7701(a)(24) of the
Internal Revenue Code.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The INTERNAL REVENUE CODE in effect on December 31,
2004 exclusive of any amendments made subsequent to that date, other than
amendments that extend provisions in effect on December 31, 2004, that would
otherwise terminate.
   NET PROFIT. Gross income as defined in Section 61 of the Internal Revenue
Code minus all the deductions from gross income allowed by Chapter 1 of the
Internal Revenue Code, and adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction for state tax or local
tax which is computed, in whole or in part, by reference to gross or net income
and which is paid or accrued to any state of the United States, local taxing
authority in a state, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, or any foreign country
or political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction that directly or
indirectly is allocable to income which is either exempt from taxation or
otherwise not taxed;
      (3)   Include any amount claimed as a net operating loss carryback or
carryforward allowed under Section 172 of the Internal Revenue Code;
      (4)   Include any amount of income and expenses passed through separately
as required by the Internal Revenue Code to an owner of a business entity that
is a pass-through entity for Federal tax purposes; and
      (5)   Exclude any amount of income that is exempt from state taxation by
the Kentucky Constitution, or the Constitution and statutory laws of the United
States.
   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The person appointed by the Mayor
and City Commission as having the duties of enforcement and administration of
the terms of this chapter.
   OCCUPATIONAL TAX OFFICE. The Office of the City Clerk or such other person
as is designated by the Mayor and City Commission with the duty of enforcement
and administration of this chapter.
   PERSON. Every natural person, whether a resident or non-resident of the
city. Whenever the word PERSON is used in a clause prescribing and imposing a
penalty in the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as applied to a
partnership or other form of unincorporated enterprise, shall mean the partners
or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, shall mean the officers and
directors thereof.
   RETURN or REPORT. Any properly completed and, if required, signed form,
statement, certification, declaration, or any other document permitted or
required to be submitted or filed with the city.
   SALES REVENUE. Receipts from the sale, lease, or rental of goods, services,
or property.
   TAXABLE NET PROFIT. 
      (1)   In case of a business entity having payroll or sales revenue only
within the city means net profit as defined under NET PROFIT.
      (2)   TAXABLE NET PROFIT in case of a business entity having payroll or
sales revenue both within and without the city means net profit as defined
under NET PROFIT of this section, and as apportioned under COMPENSATION.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year or fiscal year ending during the calendar
year, upon the basis of which net income is computed.
   TAX DISTRICT. Any county or city with the authority to levy net profits or
occupational license taxes.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 3-17-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see KRS 67.750 and 67.775
§ 110.26 LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Every person or business entity engaged in any trade, occupation, or
profession, or other activity for profit or anyone required to file a return
under this chapter in the city shall be required to complete and execute the
questionnaire prescribed by the Occupational Tax Office. Each person shall be
required to complete a separate questionnaire for each separate business before
the commencement of business or in the event of a status change, other than
change of address. Licensees are required to notify the Occupational Tax Office
of changes of address, or the cessation of business activity, and of other
changes which render inaccurate the information supplied in the completed
questionnaire. In the absence of a designated occupational tax office, the
functions thereof shall be performed by a designee of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 3-17-2016)
§ 110.27 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX PAYMENT REQUIRED.
   This provision is intended to exercise the taxing authority authorized by
KRS 92.280(2). Provided, however, exempted herefrom are those entities exempted
under KRS 92.281 and other applicable statutes.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) and (E) of this section, every
person or business entity engaged in any business for profit and any person or
business entity that is required to make a filing with the Internal Revenue
Service or the Kentucky Revenue Cabinet shall be required to file and pay to
the city an occupational license tax for the privilege of engaging in such
activities within the city. The occupational license tax shall be measured by
0.5% of:
      (1)   All wages and compensation paid or payable in the city for work
done or services performed or rendered in the city by every resident and
nonresident who is an employee;
      (2)   The net profit from business conducted in the city by a resident or
nonresident business entity. The minimum tax for any business shall be $100 per
year which is due April 15 of each year regardless of fiscal year end.
Provided, any flat fee paid pursuant to this chapter may be pro-rated on a
quarterly basis if purchased after March 31.
      (3)   The maximum annual net profits tax shall be $3,000.
   (B)   All partnerships, S corporations, and all other entities where income
is “passed through” to the owners are subject to this chapter. The occupational
license tax imposed in this chapter is assessed against income before it is
“passed through” these entities to the owners.
   (C)   If any business entity dissolves, ceases to operate, or withdraws from
the city during any taxable year, or if any business entity in any manner
surrenders or loses its charter during any taxable year, the dissolution,
cessation of business, withdrawal, or loss or surrender of charter shall not
defeat the filing of returns and the assessment and collection of any
occupational license tax for the period of that taxable year during which the
business entity had business activity in the city.
   (D)   If a business entity makes, or is required to make, a Federal income
tax return, the occupational license tax shall be computed for the purposes of
this ordinance on the basis of the same calendar or fiscal year required by the
Federal government, and shall employ the same methods of accounting required
for Federal income tax purposes.
   (E)   The occupational license tax imposed in this section shall not apply
to the following persons or business entities:
      (1)   Any bank, trust company, combined bank and trust company, combined
trust, banking and title business organized and doing business in this state,
any savings and loan association whether state or Federally chartered
(provided, this exemption does not extend to the employees of such entities or
to the requirement that such employers withhold on employees);
      (2)   Any compensation received by members of the Kentucky National Guard
for active duty training, unit training assemblies and annual field training;
      (3)   Any compensation received by precinct workers for election training
or work at election booths in state, city, and local primary, regular, or
special elections;
      (4)   Public Service Corporations that pay an ad valorem tax on property
valued and assessed by the Kentucky Department of Revenue pursuant to the
provisions of KRS 136.120. Licensees whose businesses are predominantly non-
public service who are also engaged in public service activity are required to
pay a license fee on their net profit derived from the non-public service
activities apportioned to the city;
      (5)   Persons or business entities that have been issued a license under
KRS Ch. 243 to engage in manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic beverages.
Persons engaged in the business of manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic
beverages are required to file a return, but may exclude the portion of their
net profits derived from the manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic
beverages. The exemption of this section does not relieve such business or
person from properly imposed fees or taxes under any other city ordinance
(provided, this exemption does not extend to the employees of such entities or
to the requirement that such employers withhold on employees);
      (6)   Insurance companies incorporated under the laws of and doing
business in the Commonwealth of Kentucky except as provided in KRS 91A.080
(this exemption does not apply to insurance agents or agencies);
      (7)   Any profits, earnings, distributions of an investment fund which
would quality under KRS 154.20-250 to 154.20-284 to the extent any profits,
earnings, or distributions would not be taxable to an individual investor;
   (F)   Should the amount due under this subchapter be less than $5, then no
return shall be required.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 3-17-2016; Am. Ord. 2016-004, passed 4-21-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see KRS 67.763 and 67.765
§ 110.28 APPORTIONMENT.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D), net profit shall be apportioned as
follows:
      (1)   For business entities with both payroll and sales revenue in more
than one tax district, by multiplying the net profit by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the payroll factor, described in division (B) of this
section, plus the sales factor, described in division (C) of this section, and
the denominator of which is two; and
      (2)   For business entities with sales revenue in more than one tax
district, by multiplying the net profit by the sales factor as set forth in
division (C) of this section.
      (3)   For the purposes of divisions (A) through (D) of this section, the
business entity shall file an apportionment form provided by the Occupational
Tax Office.
   (B)   The payroll factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
amount paid or payable in the city during the tax period by the business entity
for compensation, and the denominator of which is the total compensation paid
or payable by the business entity everywhere during the tax period.
Compensation is paid or payable in the city based on the time the individual’s
service is performed within the city.
   (C)   The sales factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
sales revenue of the business entity in the city during the tax period, and the
denominator of which is the total sales revenue of the business entity
everywhere during the tax period.
      (1)   The sales, lease, or rental of tangible personal property is in the
city if:
         (a)   The property is delivered or shipped to a purchaser, other than
the United States government, or to the designee of the purchaser within the
city regardless of the f.o.b. point or other conditions of the sale; or
         (b)   The property is shipped from an office, store, warehouse,
factory, or other place of storage in the city and the purchaser is the United
States government.
      (2)   Sales revenues, other than revenue from the sale, lease or rental
of tangible personal property or the lease or rental of real property, are
apportioned to the city based upon a fraction, the numerator of which is the
time spent in performing such income-producing activity within the city and the
denominator of which is the total time spent performing that income-producing
activity.
      (3)   Sales revenue from the sale, lease, or rental of real property is
allocated to the tax district where the property is located.
   (D)   If the apportionment provisions of this section do not fairly
represent the extent of the business entity’s activity in the city, the
business entity may petition the city or the city may require, in respect to
all or any part of the business entity’s business activity, if reasonable:
      (1)   Separate accounting;
      (2)   The exclusion of any one or more of the factors;
      (3)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors which will fairly
represent the business entity’s business activity in the city; or
      (4)   The employment of any other method to effectuate an equitable
allocation and apportionment of net profit.
   (E)   When compensation is paid or payable for work done or services
performed or rendered by an employee, both within and without the city, the
license tax shall be measured by that part of the compensation paid or payable
as a result of work done or service performed or rendered within the city. The
license tax shall be computed by obtaining the percentage which the
compensation for work performed or services rendered within the city bears to
the total wages and compensation paid or payable. In order for the city to
verify the accuracy of a taxpayer’s reported percentages under this subsection,
the taxpayer shall maintain adequate records.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 3-17-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see also KRS 67.753
§ 110.29 EMPLOYERS TO WITHHOLD.
   (A)   Every employer making payment of compensation to an employee shall
deduct and withhold upon the payment of the compensation any tax imposed
against the compensation by the city. Amounts withheld shall be paid to the
city in accordance with §
110.27 of this subchapter.
   (B)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall, for the quarter ending after July 1 and for each quarter ending
thereafter, on or before the end of the month following the close of each
quarter, make a return and report to the city, and pay to the city, the tax
required to be withheld under this section, unless the employer is permitted or
required to report within a reasonable time after some other period as
determined by the city.
   (C)   Every employer who fails to withhold or pay to the city any sums
required by this chapter to be withheld and paid shall be personally and
individually liable to the city for any sum or sums withheld or required to be
withheld in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (D)   The city shall have a lien upon all the property of any employer who
fails to withhold or pay over to the city sums required to be withheld under
this section. If the employer withholds, but fails to pay the amounts withheld
to the city, the lien shall commence as of the date the amounts withheld were
required to be paid to the city. If the employer fails to withhold, the lien
shall commence at the time the liability of the employer is assessed by the
city.
   (E)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall annually on or before February 28 of each year complete and file on a
form furnished or approved by the city a reconciliation of the occupational
license tax withheld where compensation is paid or payable to employees. Either
copies of Federal forms W-2 and W-3, transmittal of wage and tax statements, or
a detailed employee listing with the required equivalent information, as
determined by the city, shall be submitted.
   (F)   Every employer shall furnish each employee a statement on or before
January 31 of each year showing the amount of compensation and occupational
license tax deducted by the employer from the compensation paid to the employee
for payment to the city during the preceding calendar year.
   (G)   An employer shall be liable for the payment of the tax required to be
deducted and withheld under this section.
   (H)   The president, vice president, secretary, treasurer or any other
person holding an equivalent corporate office of any business entity subject to
this chapter shall be personally and individually liable, both jointly and
severally, for any tax required to be withheld from compensation paid to one or
more employees of any business entity, and neither the corporate dissolution or
withdrawal of the business entity from the city, nor the cessation of holding
any corporate office, shall discharge that liability of any person; provided
that the personal and individual liability shall apply to each or every person
holding the corporate office at the time the tax becomes or became obligated.
No person shall be personally and individually liable under this division who
had no authority to collect, truthfully account for, or pay over any tax
imposed by this subchapter at the time that the taxes imposed by this chapter
become or became due.
   (I)   Every employee receiving compensation in the city subject to the tax
imposed under §
110.27 of this chapter shall be personally liable for the tax notwithstanding
the provisions of divisions (G) and (H) of this section. In all cases where the
employer does not withhold the tax levied under this subchapter from the
employee, such employee or employees shall be responsible for filing with the
city each quarter in the same manner as if they were the employer. If an
employer fails to or is not required to withhold, report, or pay the license
fee it shall become the duty of the employee to file with the city. The only
employer that is not required to withhold, report, and pay the occupational
license tax is the Federal Government including the United States Postal
Service. The payment required to be made by an employee, can be made quarterly,
for the periods ending March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31 of each
year, or at any time the employee wishes to make an estimated payment for the
year in which wages are earned. All license fees must be received by February
28 for the preceding calendar year, together with a copy of the employee’s W-
2 form. Employers not required to withhold, report, or pay the license fee must
annually during the month of January of each year, make a return to the
Occupational Tax Administrator, in which is set forth the name and social
security number of each employee of the employer during the preceding calendar
year, giving the amount of salaries, wages, commissions or other compensation
earned during such preceding year by each such employee. This list shall
include all current full-time employees, part-time employees, temporary
employees, and terminated employees whether it be voluntary or involuntary.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 3-17-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see also KRS 67.780, 67.783, and 67.785
§ 110.30 RETURNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All business entity returns for the preceding taxable year shall be
made by April 15 of each year, except returns made on the basis of a fiscal
year, which shall be made by the fifteenth day of the fourth month following
the close of the fiscal year. Blank forms for returns shall be supplied by the
city.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of its Federal income tax
return and all supporting statements and schedules at the time of filing its
occupational license tax return with the city. Whenever, in the opinion of the
city, it is necessary to examine the Federal income tax return of any business
entity in order to audit the return, the city may compel the business entity to
produce for inspection a copy of any statements and schedules in support
thereof that have not been previously filed. The city may also require copies
of reports of adjustments made by the Federal government.
   (C)   Every business entity subject to a occupational license tax governed
by the provisions of this subchapter shall keep records, render under oath
statements, make returns, and comply with rules as the city from time to time
may prescribe. Whenever the city deems it necessary, the city may require a
business entity, by notice served to the business entity, to make a return,
render statements under oath, or keep records, as the city deems sufficient to
determine the tax liability of the business entity.
   (D)   The city may require, for the purpose of ascertaining the correctness
of any return or for the purposes of making an estimate of the taxable income
of any business entity, the attendance of a representative of the business
entity or of any other person having knowledge in the premises.
   (E)   The full amount of the unpaid tax payable by any business entity, as
appears from the face of the return, shall be paid to the city at the time
prescribed for filing the occupational license tax return, determined without
regard to any extension of time for filing the return.
   (F)   It shall be the responsibility of persons who make Federal Form 1099
“non-employee compensation” payments to natural persons other than employees
for services performed within the city, to maintain records of such payments
and to report such payments to the city. Said payments must be reported on by
remitting Federal Form 1099 by February 28 of the year following the close of
the calendar year in which the non employee compensation was paid. If a
business entity or person is not required to remit Federal Form 1099 to the
IRS, including but not limited to payments less than $600, they are still
liable to remit the equivalent information to the city. The information
required to be reported by said licensee shall include:
      (1)   Payer’s name, address, social security and/or Federal
identification number.
      (2)   Recipient’s name and address.
      (3)   Recipient’s social security and/or Federal identification number.
      (4)   Amount of non-employee compensation paid in the calendar year.
      (5)   Amount of non-employee compensation earned in the city for the
calendar year.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 3-17-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see also KRS 67.760, 67.768 and 67.773
§ 110.31 EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The city may grant any business entity an extension of not more than
six months, unless a longer extension has been granted by the Internal Revenue
Service or is agreed to by the city and the business entity, for filing its
return, if the business entity, on or before the date prescribed for payment of
the occupational license tax, requests the extension and pays the amount
properly estimated as its tax.
   (B)   If the time for filing a return is extended, the business entity shall
pay, as part of the tax, an amount equal to 12% per annum simple interest on
the tax shown due on the return, but not been previously paid, from the time
the tax was due until the return is actually filed and the tax paid to the
city. A fraction of a month is counted as an entire month.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 3-17-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see also KRS 67.770
§ 110.32 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Where there has been an overpayment of tax under division (E) of this
section, a refund or credit shall be made to the employer only to the extent
that the amount of the overpayment was not deducted and withheld under division
(E) by the employer;
   (B)   Unless written application for refund or credit is received by the
city from the employer within two years from the date the overpayment was made,
no refund or credit shall be allowed;
   (C)   An employee who has compensation attributable to activities performed
outside the city, based on time spent outside the city, whose employer has
withheld and remitted to this city, the occupational license tax on the
compensation attributable to activities performed outside the city, may file
for a refund within two years of the date prescribed by law for the filing of a
return. The employee shall provide a schedule and computation sufficient to
verify the refund claim and the city may confirm with the employer the
percentage of time spent outside the city and the amount of compensation
attributable to activities performed outside the city prior to approval of the
refund.
   (D)   In the case where the tax computed under this subchapter is less than
the amount which has been declared and paid as estimated tax for the same
taxable year, a refund shall be made upon the filing of a return.
   (E)   (1)   Overpayment resulting from the payment of estimated tax in
excess of the amount determined to be due upon the filing of a return for the
same taxable year may be credited against the amount of estimated tax
determined to be due on any declaration filed for the next succeeding taxable
year or for any deficiency or non payment of tax for any previous taxable year;
      (2)   No refund shall be made of any estimated tax paid unless a complete
return is filed as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 3-17-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see also KRS 67.758 and KRS 67.788
§ 110.33 FEDERAL AUDIT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   As soon as practicable after each return is received, the city
may examine and audit the return. If the amount of tax computed by the city is
greater than the amount returned by the business entity, the additional tax
shall be assessed and a notice of assessment mailed to the business entity by
the city within five years from the date the return was filed, except as
otherwise provided in this division.
         (a)   In the case of a failure to file a return or of a fraudulent
return the additional tax may be assessed at any time.
         (b)   In the case of a return where a business entity understates net
profit, or omits an amount properly includable in net profits, or both, which
understatement or omission, or both, is in excess of 25% of the amount of net
profit stated in the return, the additional tax may be assessed at any time
within six years after the return was filed.
         (c)   In the case of an assessment of additional tax relating directly
to adjustments resulting from a final determination of a federal audit, the
additional tax may be assessed before the expiration of the times provided in
this division, or six months from the date the city receives the final
determination of the Federal audit from the business entity, whichever is
later.
      (2)   The times provided in this division may be extended by agreement
between the business entity and the city. For the purposes of this division, a
return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the return shall
be considered as filed on the last day. Any extension granted for filing the
return shall also be considered as extending the last day prescribed by law for
filing the return.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of the final determination
of the Federal audit within 30 days of the conclusion of the Federal audit.
   (C)   The city may initiate a civil action for the collection of any
additional tax within the times prescribed in division (A) of this section.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 3-17-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see also KRS 67.775
§ 110.34 ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No suit shall be maintained in any court to restrain or delay the
collection or payment of the tax levied by this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Any tax collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter may
be refunded or credited within two years of the date prescribed by law for the
filing of a return or the date the money was paid to the city, whichever is the
later, except that:
         (a)   In any case where the assessment period contained in §
110.33 has been extended by an agreement between the business entity and the
city, the limitation contained in this division shall be extended accordingly.
         (b)   If the claim for refund or credit relates directly to
adjustments resulting from a Federal audit, the business entity shall file a
claim for refund or credit within the time provided for in this subsection or
six months from the conclusion of the Federal audit, whichever is later.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section and division (C) of this section,
a return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the return
shall be considered as filed on the last day.
   (C)   The authority to refund or credit overpayments of taxes collected
pursuant to this subchapter is vested exclusively in the city.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 3-17-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see also KRS 67.778
§ 110.35 INFORMATION TO REMAIN CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   No present or former employee of the city shall intentionally and
without authorization divulge any information acquired by him or her of the
affairs of any person, or information regarding the tax schedules, returns, or
reports required to be filed with the city or other proper officer, or any
information produced by a hearing or investigation, insofar as the information
may have to do with the affairs of the person’s business. This prohibition does
not extend to information required in prosecutions for making false reports or
returns for taxation, or any other infraction of the tax laws, or in any way
made a matter of public record, nor does it preclude furnishing any taxpayer or
the taxpayer’s properly authorized agent with information respecting his or her
own return. Further, this prohibition does not preclude any employee of the
city from testifying in any court, or from introducing as evidence returns or
reports filed with the city, in an action for violation of the city tax laws or
in any action challenging the city laws.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to disclose to the Commissioner of Revenue
of the Commonwealth of Kentucky or his or her duly authorized agent all such
information and rights to inspect any of the books and records of the city if
the Commissioner of Revenue of the Commonwealth of Kentucky grants to the city
the reciprocal right to obtain information from the files and records of the
Kentucky Department of Revenue and maintains the privileged character of the
information so furnished. Provided, further, that the city may publish
statistics based on such information in such a manner as not to reveal data
respecting net profits or compensation of any person or business entity.
   (C) In addition, the city is empowered to execute similar reciprocity
agreements as described in division (B) of this section with any other taxing
entity, should there be a need for exchange of information in order to effect
diligent enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 3-17-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see also KRS 67.790
§ 110.36 USE OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX.
   Any revenue generated from this subchapter shall be applied and utilized by
the city General Fund.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 3-17-2016)
§ 110.37 QUARTERLY ESTIMATED PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Every business entity, other than a sole proprietorship, subject to an
occupational license tax levied by the city shall make quarterly estimated tax
payments on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth, sixth, ninth and twelfth
month of each taxable year if the tax liability for the taxable year exceeds
$3,000.
   (B)   The quarterly estimated tax payments required under division (A) of
this section shall be based on the lesser of:
      (1)   Twenty-two and one-half percent of the current taxable year tax
liability;
      (2)   Twenty-five percent of the preceding full year taxable year tax
liability; or
      (3)   Twenty-five percent of the average tax liability for the three
preceding full year taxable years’ tax liabilities if the tax liability for any
of the three preceding full taxable years exceeded $9,000.
   (C)   (1)   Any business entity that fails to submit the minimum quarterly
payment required under division (B) of this section by the due date for the
quarterly payment shall pay an amount equal to 12% per annum simple interest on
the amount of the quarterly payment required under division (B) of this section
from the earlier of:
         (a)   The due date for the quarterly payment until the time when the
aggregate quarterly payments submitted for the taxable year equal the minimum
aggregate payments due under division (B) of this section; or
         (b)   The due date of the annual return.
      (2)   A fraction of a month is counted as an entire month.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any business
entity’s first full or partial taxable year of doing business in the city or
any first taxable year in which a business entity’s tax liability exceeds
$3,000.
   (E)   At the election of the business entity, any installment of the
estimated tax may be paid prior to the date prescribed for its payment.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 3-17-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see also KRS 67.755
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, not otherwise
specified, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than
$500.
   (B)   The following regulations shall apply for §
110.25:
      (1)   (a)   A business entity subject to tax on net profits may be
subject to a penalty equal to 5% of the tax due for each calendar month or
fraction thereof if the business entity:
            1.   Fails to file any return or report on or before the due date
prescribed for filing or as extended by the city; or
            2.   Fails to pay the tax computed on the return or report on or
before the due date prescribed for payment.
         (b)   The total penalty levied pursuant to this division shall not
exceed 25% of the total tax due; however, the penalty shall not be less than
$25.
      (2)   Every employer who fails to file a return or pay the tax on or
before the date prescribed under §
110.29 may be subject to a penalty in an amount equal to 5% of the tax due for
each calendar month or fraction thereof. The total penalty levied pursuant to
this subsection shall not exceed 25% of the total tax due; however, the penalty
shall not be less than $25.
      (3)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this division, any
business entity or employer shall pay, as part of the tax, an amount equal to
12% per annum simple interest on the tax shown due, but not previously paid,
from the time the tax was due until the tax is paid to the city. A fraction of
a month is counted as an entire month.
      (4)   Every tax imposed by this chapter, and all increases, interest, and
penalties thereon, shall become, from the time the tax is due and payable, a
personal debt of the taxpayer to the city.
      (5)   The city may enforce the collection of the occupational tax due
under §
110.27 and any fees, penalties, and interest as provided in divisions (1), (2),
(3), and (4) of this section by civil action in a court of appropriate
jurisdiction. To the extent authorized by law, the city shall be entitled to
recover all court costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by it in
enforcing any provision of §§
110.25 et seq.
      (6)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any
person, business entity or employer who willfully fails to make a return,
willfully makes a false return, or who willfully fails to pay taxes owing or
collected, with the intent to evade payment of the tax or amount collected, or
any part thereof, shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
      (7)   Any person who willfully aids or assists in, or procures, counsels,
or advises the preparation or presentation under, or in connection with, any
matter arising under this §§
110.25 et seq. of a return, affidavit, claim, or other document, which is
fraudulent or is false as to any material matter, whether or not the falsity or
fraud is with the knowledge or consent of the person authorized or required to
present the return, affidavit, claim, or document, shall be guilty of a Class A
misdemeanor.
      (8)   A return for the purpose of this section shall mean and include any
return, declaration, or form prescribed by the city and required to be filed
with the city by the provisions of this §§
110.25 et seq., or by the rules of the city or by written request for
information to the business entity by the city.
      (9)   Any person violating the provisions of §
110.36 by intentionally inspecting confidential taxpayer information without
authorization, shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not longer
than six months, or both.
      (10)   Any person violating the provisions of §
110.36 by divulging confidential taxpayer information shall be fined not more
than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.
(Am. Ord. 2016-002, passed 3-17-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see also KRS 67.790
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor, as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of the business, uses any building, structure, vehicle or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER. A person who is a PEDDLER is not an ITINERANT MERCHANT.
      (1)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale, making sales or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a PEDDLER.
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the City Commission.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk. This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, by all partners if a partnership or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of the individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of the individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which the individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services to
be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or grown
and where the goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application the following:
      (1)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising proposed
to be used in connection with the applicant's business;
      (2)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any, for
which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act
as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C), a
statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant's
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant did any of the following will
constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character.
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. The notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or conviction of the licensee
of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the City Commission. The appeal shall
be taken by filing with the City Commission, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to the person's last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The City Commission shall set
the time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to
the person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the City Commission after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words "Licensed
Peddler" or "Licensed Solicitor," the expiration date of the license and the
number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during the
time as he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day's violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 112: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
112.01   Definition
   
112.02   Bond
   
112.03   Register to be kept; daily reports
   
112.04   Receipt to be given for each article; sale of article
   
112.05   Maximum interest, resale price
   
112.06   Receipt to be given for payment of loan
   
112.07   Prohibited activities
   
112.08   Enforcement
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property;
deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the property
back again at a stipulated price; makes a public display at his or her place of
business of the sign generally used by pawnbrokers to denote their business; or
who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on personal property or
deposit.
(KRS 226.010)
§ 112.02 BOND.
   Every person to whom a city license is granted to carry on the business of a
pawnbroker shall annually enter into bond to the city, with good and sufficient
surety to be approved by the City Commission, in the penal sum of $1,000. This
bond shall be conditioned that he will observe the provisions of this chapter
and all ordinances and laws in force in the city not inconsistent with this
chapter.
(KRS 226.020)
§ 112.03 REGISTER TO BE KEPT; DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and purchases of
all articles by the pawnbroker from the general public. The register shall:
      (1)   Be reported to an online, internet-based transaction recording
service accessible to law enforcement agencies;
      (2)   Show the dates and the amounts of all loans or purchases by the
pawnbroker from the general public, the names of all persons who have left any
property that has been pawned or sold, and:
         (a)   A driver’s license number;
         (b)   Another state or federally issued picture identification card
number; or
         (c)   If the identification specified in divisions (a) or (b) of this
division is not available, a social security number may be accepted;
      (3)   At all times be available to the inspection of any law enforcement
officer of this state when in the discharge of his or her official duty; and
      (4)   Contain a full description of all property purchased by the
pawnbroker from the general public or received on deposit as collateral or
security. When requested by law enforcement and pertaining to an investigation,
a photograph of the merchandise shall be made available to law enforcement if
the property is still in the possession of the pawnbroker. For purposes of this
section, “full description” includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Make;
         (b)   Model;
         (c)   Color;
         (d)   Size;
         (e)   Manufacturer;
         (f)   Vintage; and
         (g)   Distinguishing marks or characteristics.
   (B)   When secondhand merchandise is sold to a pawnbroker, the merchandise
shall be held for a minimum of 12 days before being resold.
   (C)   Prior to the release of property to a representative of law
enforcement, the law enforcement representative shall provide to the pawnbroker
a case report or other documentation that the item has been reported as stolen.
(KRS 226.040)
   (D)   Every pawnbroker shall, by 11:00 a.m. each day, make available to the
Chief of Police a true and correct written report of all goods received by him
or her, whether by pawn or purchase, during the 24 hours preceding each report.
The report shall describe the goods as accurately as practicable. The Chief of
Police shall furnish blanks for these reports.
(KRS 226.070) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR EACH ARTICLE; SALE OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall give a plain written or printed ticket for the
loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased or upon which money is loaned,
having on each a copy of the entries required by §
112.03(A) to be kept in his or her register. He or she shall not make any
charge for the ticket or receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of 60
days from the maturity of the loan. However, not less than ten days before
making the sale, the pawnbroker shall give notice to the person by whom the
article was pawned by mail addressed to the post office address of that person
as shown on the pawnbroker’s register, notifying the person that, unless he or
she redeems the article within ten days from the date of mailing of the notice,
the article will be sold.
(KRS 226.050) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 MAXIMUM INTEREST, RESALE PRICE.
   (A)   Any pawnbroker as defined in §
112.01, may, in loaning money on deposit of personal property, charge, contract
for or receive interest at a rate not exceeding 2% per month on the unpaid
principal balance of the loan, and may charge, contract for and receive a
reasonable fee, not to exceed one-fifth of the value of the loan per month, for
investigating the title, storing and insuring the property, closing the loan,
making daily reports to local law enforcement officers if required by §
112.03, and for other expenses, losses and incidental costs associated with
servicing the loans. Further, this fee, when made and collected, shall not be
deemed as interest for any purpose of law.
   (B)   No pawnbroker shall directly or indirectly charge, receive or contract
for any interest or consideration greater than that allowed by this section.
(KRS 226.080) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR PAYMENT OF LOAN.
   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower, shall
give to that person a plain and complete receipt for the payment, specifying
separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to interest.
In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased personal property under an
agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on
receiving any payment of money from the person from whom the property was
purchased, give that person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the
stipulated resale price and the amount received.
(KRS 226.090) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of either pledge or pawn, any article
whatever from a minor at any time nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
(KRS 226.030) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter unless
otherwise provided by KRS 226.100. However, county police, for the purpose of
locating stolen goods, may carry out the provisions of KRS 226.060 within the
city.
(KRS 226.100)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any pawnbroker or pawnbroker's clerk who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter for which no penalty is otherwise provided shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
$50, nor more than $500, and his or her license may be forfeited to the city.
(KRS 226.990(1))
   (B)   Any pawnbroker who violates any of the provisions of §
112.03(B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
$20, nor more than $100.
(KRS 226.990(3))
CHAPTER 113: ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
113.01   Rationale and findings
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   License required
   
113.04   Issuance of license
   
113.05   Fees
   
113.06   Inspection
   
113.07   Expiration and renewal of license
   
113.08   Suspension
   
113.09   Revocation
   
113.10   Hearing; license denial, suspension, revocation; appeal
   
113.11   Transfer of license
   
113.12   Hours of operation
   
113.13   Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit films on
premises
   
113.14   Loitering, exterior lighting and monitoring, and interior lighting
requirements
   
113.15   Applicability of chapter to existing businesses
   
113.16   Prohibited conduct
   
113.17   Scienter required to prove violation of business licensee liability
   
113.18   Failure of city to meet deadline not to risk applicant/licensee rights
   
113.19   Severability
   
113.20   Conflicting provisions repealed
   
113.21   Location restrictions
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 RATIONALE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate adult
entertainment establishments in order to promote the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of the city, and to establish reasonable and
uniform regulations to prevent the deleterious secondary effects of adult
entertainment establishments within the city. The provisions of this chapter
have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on
the content or reasonable access to any communicative materials, including
sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is neither the intent nor effect of
this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented
materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access by the
distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of this chapter to condone
or legitimize the distribution of obscene material.
   (B)   Findings and rationale. Based on evidence of the adverse secondary
effects of adult uses presented in hearings and in reports made available to
the Simpsonville City Commission, and on findings, interpretations, and
narrowing constructions incorporated in the cases of City of Littleton v. Z.J.
Gifts D-4, L.L.C, 541 U.S. 774 (2004); City of Los Angeles v. Alameda Books,
Inc., 535 U.S. 425 (2002); City of Erie v. Pap's A.M., 529 U.S. 277 (2000);
City of Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986); Young v.
American Mini Theatres, 427 U.S. 50 (1976); Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501
U.S. 560 (1991); California v. LaRue, 409 U.S. 109 (1972); N.Y. State Liquor
Authority v. Bellanca, 452 U.S. 714 (1981); and Sensations, Inc. v. City of
Grand Rapids, 526 F.3d 291 (6th Cir. 2008); 729, Inc. v. Kenton County
Simpsonville City Commission, 515 F.3d 485 (6th Cir. 2008) ; Deja Vu of
Nashville, Inc. v. Metropolitan Gov't of Nashville & Davidson County, 466 F.3d
391 (6th Cir. 2006); Deja Vu of Cincinnati, L.L.C., v. Union Township Bd. of
Trustees, 411 F.3d 777 (6th Cir. 2005) (en banc); Daytona Grand, Inc. v. City
of Daytona Beach, 490 F.3d 860 (11th Cir. 2007); Williams v. Morgan, 478 F.3d
1316 (11th Cir. 2007); H&A Land Corp. v. City of Kennedale, 480 F.3d 336 (5th
Cir. 2007); Illinois One News, Inc. v. City of Marshall, 477 F.3d 461 (7th Cir.
2007); G.M. Enterprises, Inc. v. Town of St. Joseph, 350 F.3d 631 (7th Cir.
2003); Spokane Arcade, Inc. v. City of Spokane, 75 F.3d 663 (9th Cir. 1996);
DLS, Inc. v. City of Chattanooga, 107 F.3d 403 (6th Cir. 1997); Currence v.
City of Cincinnati, 28 Fed. Appx. 438 (6th Cir. Jan. 24, 2002); Broadway Books
v. Roberts, 642 F. Supp. 486 (E.D. Tenn. 1986); Bright Lights, Inc. v. City of
Newport, 830 F. Supp. 378 (E.D. Ky. 1993); Ben's Bar, Inc. v. Village of
Somerset, 316 F.3d 702 (7th Cir. 2003); Richland Bookmart v. Nichols, 137 F.3d
435 (6th Cir. 1998); Center for Fair Public Policy v. Maricopa County, 336 F.3d
1153 (9th Cir. 2003); In re Tennessee Public Indecency Statute, 172 F.3d 873
(6th Cir. Jan. 13 1999) (table); Bamon Corp v. City of Dayton, 923 F.2d 470
(6th Cir. 1991); Triplett Grille, Inc. v. City of Akron, 40 F.3d 129 (6th Cir.
1994); O'Connor v. City and County of Denver, 894 F.2d 1210 (10th Cir. 1990);
Deja Vu of Nashville, Inc., et al. v. Metropolitan Government of Nashville and
Davidson County, 274 F.3d 377 (6th Cir. 2001); Z.J. Gifts D-2, LLC v. City of
Aurora, 136 F.3d 683 (10th Cir. 1998); ILQ Investments, Inc. v. City of
Rochester, 25 F.3d 1413 (8th Cir. 1994); World Wide Video of Spokane, Inc. v.
City of Spokane, 227 F. Supp. 2d 1143 (E.D. Wash. 2002); Threesome
Entertainment v. Strittmather, 4 F. Supp. 2d 710 (N.D. Ohio 1998); Bigg Wolf
Discount Video Sales, Inc. v. Montgomery County, 256 F. Supp. 2d 385 (D. Md.
2003); Kentucky Restaurant Concepts, Inc. v. City of Louisville and Jefferson
County, 209 F. Supp. 2d 672 (W.D. Ky. 2002); Restaurant Ventures of Lexington-
Fayette Urban County Gov't, 60 S.W. 3d 572 (Ky. App. 2001); Mr. B's Bar &
Lounge, Inc. v. Louisville, 630 S.W.2d 564 (Ky. App. 1981); Commonwealth of
Kentucky v. Jameson, 215 S.W.3d 9 (Ky. 2007); World Wide Video of Washington,
Inc. v. City of Spokane, 368 F.3d 1186 (9th Cir. 2004); Gammoh v. City of La
Habra, 395 F.3d 1114 (9th Cir. 2005); People ex rel. Deters v. The Lion's Den,
Inc., Case No. 04-CH-26, Modified Permanent Injunction Order (Ill. Fourth
Judicial Circuit, Effingham County, July 13, 2005); Reliable Consultants, Inc.
v. City of Kennedale, No. 4:05-CV-166-A, Findings of Fact and Conclusions of
Law (N.D. Tex. May 26, 2005); Richland Bookmart, Inc. v. Knox County, — F.3d —,
2009 WL 330995 (6th Cir. Feb. 12, 2009); and based upon reports concerning
secondary effects occurring in and around adult entertainment establishments,
including, but not limited to, Austin, Texas - 1986; Indianapolis, Indiana -
1984; Garden Grove, California - 1991; Houston, Texas - 1983, 1997; Phoenix,
Arizona - 1979, 1995-98; Chattanooga, Tennessee - 1999-2003; Los Angeles,
California - 1977; Whittier, California - 1978; Spokane, Washington - 2001; St.
Cloud, Minnesota - 1994; Littleton, Colorado - 2004; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma -
1986; Dallas, Texas - 1997; Ft. Worth, Texas - 2004; Kennedale, Texas - 2005;
Greensboro, North Carolina - 2003; Amarillo, Texas - 1977; Jackson County,
Missouri - 2008; Louisville, Kentucky - 2004; New York, New York Times Square -
1994; and the Report of the Attorney General's Working Group On The Regulation
Of Sexually Oriented Businesses, (June 6, 1989, State of Minnesota), the
Simpsonville City Commission finds:
      (1)   Adult entertainment establishments, as a category of commercial
uses, are associated with a wide variety of adverse secondary effects
including, but not limited to, personal and property crimes, prostitution,
potential spread of disease, lewdness, public indecency, obscenity, illicit
drug use and drug trafficking, negative impacts on surrounding properties,
urban blight, litter, and sexual assault and exploitation.
      (2)   Each of the foregoing negative secondary effects constitutes a harm
which the city has a substantial government interest in preventing and/or
abating. This substantial government interest in preventing secondary effects,
which is the city's rationale for this chapter, exists independent of any
comparative analysis between sexually oriented and non-sexually oriented
establishments. Additionally, the city's interest in regulating adult
entertainment establishments extends to preventing future secondary effects of
either current or future adult entertainment establishments that may locate in
the city. The city finds that the cases and documentation relied on in this
chapter are reasonably believed to be relevant to said secondary effects.
   (C)   The city hereby adopts and incorporates herein its stated findings and
legislative record related to the adverse secondary effects of adult
entertainment establishments, including the judicial opinions and reports
related to such secondary effects.
(Ord. 2009-005, passed 5-20-2009)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the words and phrases defined in the sections
hereunder shall have the meanings therein respectively ascribed to them unless
a different meaning is clearly indicated by the context.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment which, as
one of its principal business activities, offers for sale or rental for any
form of consideration any one or more of the following: books, magazines,
periodicals or other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion  pictures,
video cassettes, compact discs, digital video discs, slides, or other visual
representations which are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas. A principal business
activity exists where the commercial establishment:
      (1)   Has a substantial portion of its displayed merchandise which
consists of said items; or
      (2)   Has a substantial portion of the wholesale value of its displayed
merchandise which consists of said items; or
      (3)   Has a substantial portion of the retail value (defined as the price
charged to customers) of its displayed merchandise which consists of said
items; or
      (4)   Derives a substantial portion of its revenues from the sale or
rental, for any form of consideration of said items; or
      (5)   Maintains a substantial portion of its interior business space for
the display, sale, and/or rental of said items (aisles and walkways used to
access said items shall be included in interior business space maintained for
the display, sale, or rental of said items); or
      (6)   Maintains at least 500 square feet of its interior business space
for the display, sale, and/or rental of said items (aisles and walkways used to
access said items shall be included in interior business space maintained for
the display, sale, or rental of said items) and limits access to the premises
to adults only; or
      (7)   Offers for sale or rental at least 2,000 of the foregoing items and
limits access to the premises to adults only; or
      (8)   Regularly features said items and regularly advertises itself or
holds itself out as an establishment that caters to adult sexual interests by
using "adult," "XXX," "sex," "erotic," or substantially similar language; or
      (9)   Maintains an adult arcade, which means any place to which the
public is permitted or invited wherein coin-operated or slug-operated or
electronically, electrically, or mechanically controlled still or motion
picture machines, projectors, or other image-producing devices are regularly
maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time,
and where the images so displayed are characterized by their emphasis upon
matter exhibiting specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle club, or
similar commercial establishment which regularly features persons who appear
semi-nude.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. An adult bookstore or adult video store,
an adult cabaret, an adult motion picture theater, a semi-nude model studio, or
a sexual device shop.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic reproductions which
are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly shown to more than five
persons for any form of consideration.
   CHARACTERIZED BY. Describing the essential character or quality of an item.
As applied in this chapter, no business shall be classified as an adult
entertainment establishment by virtue of showing, selling, or renting materials
rated NC-17 or R by the Motion Picture Association of America.
   CITY. Simpsonville, Kentucky.
   EMPLOY, EMPLOYEE, AND EMPLOYMENT. Describe and pertain to any person who
performs any service on the premises of an adult entertainment establishment,
on a full time, part time, or contract basis, regardless of whether the person
is denominated an employee, independent contractor, agent, or otherwise.
EMPLOYEE does not include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or
maintenance of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
   ESTABLISH or ESTABLISHMENT. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any adult entertainment
establishment as a new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not an adult
entertainment establishment, to any adult entertainment establishment; or
      (3)   The addition of any adult entertainment establishment to any other
existing adult entertainment establishment.
   HEARING OFFICER.  An attorney, not otherwise employed by the city, who is
licensed to practice law in Kentucky, and retained to serve as an independent
tribunal to conduct hearings under this chapter.
   INFLUENTIAL INTEREST. Any of the following:
      (1)   The actual power to operate the adult entertainment establishment
or control the operation, management or policies of the adult entertainment
establishment or legal entity which operates the adult entertainment
establishment;
      (2)   Ownership of a financial interest of 30% or more of a business or
of any class of voting securities of a business; or
      (3)   Holding an office (e.g., president, vice president, secretary,
treasurer, managing member, managing director, etc.) in a legal entity which
operates the adult entertainment establishment.
   INTERIOR BUSINESS SPACE. The floor area inside an adult entertainment
establishment that is visible or accessible to patrons for any reason,
excluding restrooms.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate an adult entertainment
establishment has been issued, as well as the individual or individuals listed
as an applicant on the application for an adult entertainment establishment
license. In the case of an employee, it shall mean the person in whose name the
adult entertainment establishment employee license has been issued.
   NUDITY or A STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with less than a
fully opaque covering, or the showing of the female breast with less than a
fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple and areola.
   OPERATOR. Any person on the premises of an adult entertainment establishment
who causes the business to function or who puts or keeps in operation the
business or who is authorized to manage the business or exercise overall
operational control of the business premises. A person may be found to be
operating or causing to be operated an adult entertainment establishment
regardless of whether that person is an owner, part owner, or licensee of the
business.
   PERSON. Individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association,
or other legal entity.
   PREMISES. The real property upon which the adult entertainment establishment
is located, and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including, but
not limited to, the adult entertainment establishment, the grounds, private
walkways, and parking lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto, under the
ownership, control, or supervision of the licensee, as described in the
application for an adult entertainment establishment license.
   REGULARLY. The consistent and repeated doing of an act on an ongoing basis.
   SEMI-NUDE or STATE OF SEMI-NUDITY. The showing of the female breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola and extending across the width of
the breast at that point, or the showing of the male or female buttocks. This
definition shall include the lower portion of the human female breast, but
shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breasts
exhibited by a bikini, dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, or similar wearing
apparel provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIO. A place where persons regularly appear in a state of
semi-nudity for money or any form of consideration in order to be observed,
sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by
other persons. This definition does not apply to any place where persons
appearing in a state of semi-nudity did so in a class operated:
      (1)   By a college, junior college, or university supported entirely or
partly by taxation;
      (2)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      (3) In a structure:
         (a)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a semi-nude person is available for
viewing; and
         (b)   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
at least three days in advance of the class.
   SEXUAL DEVICE. Any three-dimensional object designed for stimulation of the
male or female human genitals, anus, buttocks, female breast, or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others and shall include devices
commonly known as dildos, vibrators, penis pumps, cock rings, anal beads, butt
plugs, nipple clamps, and physical representations of the human genital organs.
Nothing in this definition shall be construed to include devices primarily
intended for protection against sexually transmitted diseases or for preventing
pregnancy.
   SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP. A commercial establishment that regularly features
sexual devices. This definition shall not be construed to include any pharmacy,
drug store, medical clinic, any establishment primarily dedicated to providing
medical or healthcare products or services, or any establishment that does not
limit access to its premises or a portion of its premises to adults only.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Includes:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered: human genitals, pubic
region; buttock; and female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following specified crimes for which
less than five years has elapsed since the date of conviction or the date of
release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the later date:
      (1)   Sexual performance by a child; public lewdness; indecent exposure;
indecency with a child; sexual abuse or assault; molestation of a child;
      (2)   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution;
      (3)   Dissemination of obscenity; sale, distribution or display of
harmful material to a minor; possession or distribution of child pornography;
      (4)   Illicit use and distribution of a controlled substance;
      (5)   Engaging in organized criminal activity relating to a sexually-
oriented business;
      (6)   Any attempt, solicitation, or conspiracy to commit one of the
foregoing offenses; or
      (7)   Any offense in another jurisdiction that, had the predicate act(s)
been committed in Kentucky, would have constituted any of the foregoing
offenses.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following:
      (1)   Intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation or sodomy; or
      (2)   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of the
activities described in (a) above.
   SUBSTANTIAL. At least 35% of the item(s) so modified.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF AN ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT.
Any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute an influential interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
   VIEWING ROOM. The room, booth, or area where a patron of an adult
entertainment establishment would ordinarily be positioned while watching a
film, videocassette, digital video disc, or other video reproduction.
(Ord. 2009-005, passed 5-20-2009)
§ 113.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Business license. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an
adult entertainment establishment in the city without a valid adult
entertainment establishment license.
   (B)   Employee license. It shall be unlawful for any person to be an
employee, as defined in this chapter, of an adult entertainment establishment
in the city without a valid adult entertainment establishment employee license,
except that a person who is a licensee under a valid adult entertainment
establishment license shall not be required to also obtain an adult
entertainment establishment employee license.
   (C)   Application. 
      (1)   An applicant for an adult entertainment establishment license or an
adult entertainment establishment employee license shall file in person at the
office of the City Clerk a completed application made on a form provided by the
City Clerk. An adult entertainment establishment may designate an individual
with an influential interest in the business to file its application for an
adult entertainment establishment license in person on behalf of the business.
The application shall be signed as required by division (D) herein and shall be
notarized. An application shall be considered complete when it contains, for
each person required to sign the application, the information and/or items
required in this division (C), accompanied by the appropriate licensing fee:
         (a)   The applicant's full legal name and any other names used by the
applicant in the preceding five years.
         (b)   Current business address or another mailing address for the
applicant.
         (c)   Written proof of age, in the form of a driver's license or a
copy of a birth certificate accompanied by a picture identification document
issued by a governmental agency.
         (d)   If the application is for an adult entertainment establishment
license, the business name, location, legal description, mailing address and
phone number of the adult entertainment establishment.
         (e)   If the application is for an adult entertainment establishment
license, the name and business address of the statutory agent or other agent
authorized to receive service of process.
         (f)   A statement of whether an applicant has been convicted of or has
pled guilty or nolo contendere to a specified criminal activity as defined in
this chapter, and if so, each specified criminal activity involved, including
the date, place, and jurisdiction of each as well as the dates of conviction
and release from confinement, where applicable.
         (g)   A statement of whether any adult entertainment establishment in
which an applicant has had an influential interest, has, in the previous five
years (and at a time during which the applicant had the influential interest):
            1.   Been declared by a court of law to be a nuisance; or
            2.   Been subject to a court order of closure or padlocking.
         (h)   An application for an adult entertainment establishment license
shall be accompanied by a legal description of the property where the business
is located and a sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared but shall be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches. Applicants who are
required to comply with the stage, booth, and/or room configuration
requirements of this chapter shall submit a diagram indicating that the setup
and configuration of the premises meets the requirements of the applicable
regulations.
      (2)   The information provided pursuant to division (C) shall be
supplemented in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
City Clerk within ten working days of a change of circumstances which would
render the information originally submitted false or incomplete.
   (D)   Signature. A person who seeks an adult entertainment establishment
employee license under this section shall sign the application for a license.
If a person who seeks an adult entertainment establishment license under this
section is an individual, he or she shall sign the application for a license as
applicant. If a person who seeks an adult entertainment establishment license
is other than an individual, each person with an influential interest in the
adult entertainment establishment or in a legal entity that controls the adult
entertainment establishment shall sign the application for a license as
applicant. Each applicant must be qualified under this chapter and each
applicant shall be considered a licensee if a license is granted.
   (E)   The information provided by an applicant in connection with an
application for a license under this chapter shall be maintained by the office
of the City Clerk on a confidential basis, and such information may be
disclosed only as may be required, and only to the extent required, by court
order.
(Ord. 2009-005, passed 5-20-2009)
§ 113.04 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Business license. Upon the filing of a completed application for an
adult entertainment establishment license, the City Clerk shall immediately
issue a temporary license to the applicant if the completed application is from
a preexisting adult entertainment establishment that is lawfully operating in
the city and the completed application, on its face, indicates that the
applicant is entitled to an annual adult entertainment establishment license.
The temporary license shall expire upon the final decision of the city to deny
or grant an annual license. Within 20 days of the filing of a completed adult
entertainment establishment license application, the City Clerk shall either
issue a license to the applicant or issue a written notice of intent to deny a
license to the applicant. The City Clerk shall issue a license unless:
      (1)   An applicant is less than 18 years of age.
      (2)   An applicant has failed to provide information required by this
chapter for issuance of a license or has falsely answered a question or request
for information on the application form.
      (3)   The license application fee required by this chapter has not been
paid.
      (4)   The adult entertainment establishment, as defined herein, is not in
compliance with the interior configuration requirements of this chapter or is
not in compliance with the locational requirements of any ordinance in Shelby
County or the City of Simpsonville governing adult uses.
      (5)   Any adult entertainment establishment in which an applicant has had
an influential interest, has, in the previous five years (and at a time during
which the applicant had the influential interest):
         (a)   Been declared by a court of law to be a nuisance; or
         (b)   Been subject to an order of closure or padlocking.
      (6)   An applicant has been convicted of or pled guilty or nolo
contendere to a specified criminal activity, as defined in this chapter.
   (B)   Employee license. Upon the filing of a completed application for an
adult entertainment establishment employee license, the City Clerk shall
immediately issue a temporary license to the applicant if the applicant seeks
licensure to work in a licensed adult entertainment establishment and the
completed application, on its face, indicates that the applicant is entitled to
an annual adult entertainment establishment employee license. The temporary
license shall expire upon the final decision of the city to deny or grant an
annual license. Within 20 days of the filing of a completed adult entertainment
establishment employee license application, the City Clerk shall either issue a
license to the applicant or issue a written notice of intent to deny a license
to the applicant. The City Clerk shall issue a license unless:
      (1)   The applicant is less than 18 years of age.
      (2)   The applicant has failed to provide information as required by this
chapter for issuance of a license or has falsely answered a question or request
for information on the application form.
      (3)   The license application fee required by this chapter has not been
paid.
      (4)   Any adult entertainment establishment in which the applicant has
had an influential interest, has, in the previous five years (and at a time
during which the applicant had the influential interest):
         (a)   Been declared by a court of law to be a nuisance; or
         (b)   Been subject to an order of closure or padlocking.
      (5)   The applicant has been convicted of or pled guilty or nolo
contendere to a specified criminal activity, as defined in this chapter.
   (C)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the number of the license issued to
the licensee(s), the expiration date, and, if the license is for an adult
entertainment establishment, the address of the adult entertainment
establishment. The adult entertainment establishment license shall be posted in
a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment so that it may be read at any time that the business is occupied
by patrons or is open to the public. An adult entertainment establishment
employee shall keep the employee's license on his or her person or on the
premises where the licensee is then working or performing.
(Ord. 2009-005, passed 5-20-2009)
§ 113.05 FEES.
   The initial license and annual renewal fees for adult entertainment
establishment licenses and adult entertainment establishment employee licenses
shall be as follows: $100 for the initial fee for an adult entertainment
establishment license and $50 for annual renewal; $50 for the initial adult
entertainment establishment employee license and $25 for annual renewal.
(Ord. 2009-005, passed 5-20-2009)
§ 113.06 INSPECTION.
   Adult entertainment establishments and adult entertainment establishment
employees shall permit the City Clerk and his or her agents to inspect, from
time to time on an occasional basis, the portions of the adult entertainment
establishment premises where patrons are permitted, for the purpose of ensuring
compliance with the specific regulations of this chapter, during those times
when the adult entertainment establishment is occupied by patrons or is open to
the public. This section shall be narrowly construed by the city to authorize
reasonable inspections of the licensed premises pursuant to this chapter, but
not to authorize a harassing or excessive pattern of inspections.
(Ord. 2009-005, passed 5-20-2009) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.07 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license shall remain valid for a period of one calendar year from
the date of issuance unless otherwise suspended or revoked. Such license may be
renewed only by making application and payment of a fee as provided in this
chapter.
   (B)   Application for renewal of an annual license should be made at least
90 days before the expiration date of the current annual license, and when made
less than 90 days before the expiration date, the expiration of the current
license will not be affected.
(Ord. 2009-005, passed 5-20-2009) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.08 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The City Clerk or designated agent shall issue a written notice of
intent to suspend an adult entertainment establishment license for a period not
to exceed 30 days if the adult entertainment establishment licensee has
knowingly violated this chapter or has knowingly allowed an employee or any
other person to violate this chapter.
   (B)   The City Clerk or designated agent shall issue a written notice of
intent to suspend an adult entertainment establishment employee license for a
period not to exceed 30 days if the employee licensee has knowingly violated
this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-005, passed 5-20-2009)
§ 113.09 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The City Clerk or designated agent shall issue a written notice of
intent to revoke an adult entertainment establishment license or an adult
entertainment establishment employee license, as applicable, if the licensee
knowingly violates this chapter or has knowingly allowed an employee or any
other person to violate this chaper and a suspension of the licensee's license
has become effective within the previous 12-month period.
   (B)   The City Clerk or designated agent shall issue a written notice of
intent to revoke an adult entertainment establishment license or an adult
entertainment establishment employee license, as applicable, if:
      (1)   The licensee has knowingly given false information in the
application for the adult entertainment establishment license or the adult
entertainment establishment employee license;
      (2)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed
possession, use, or sale of controlled substances on the premises of the adult
entertainment establishment;
      (3)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed
prostitution on the premises of the adult entertainment establishment;
      (4)   The licensee knowingly or recklessly operated the adult
entertainment establishment during a period of time when the license was
finally suspended or revoked;
      (5)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed any
specified sexual activity or specified criminal activity to occur in or on the
premises of the adult entertainment establishment; or
      (6)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly allowed a person under the
age of 18 years to consume alcohol or appear in a state of semi-nudity or
nudity on the premises of the adult entertainment establishment.
   (C)   The fact that any relevant conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on the revocation of the license, provided that, if any conviction which
serves as a basis of a license revocation is overturned or reversed on appeal,
that conviction shall be treated as null and of no effect for revocation
purposes.
   (D)   When, after the notice and hearing procedure described in this
chapter, the city revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for one year
and the licensee shall not be issued an adult entertainment establishment
license or adult entertainment establishment employee license for one year from
the date revocation becomes effective.
(Ord. 2009-005, passed 5-20-2009)
§ 113.10 HEARING; LICENSE DENIAL, SUSPENSION, REVOCATION; APPEAL.
   (A)   (1)   When the City Clerk or designated agent issues a written notice
of intent to deny, suspend, or revoke a license, the City Clerk shall
immediately send such notice, which shall include the specific grounds under
this chapter for such action, to the applicant or licensee (respondent) by
personal delivery or certified mail. The notice shall be directed to the most
current business address or other mailing address on file with the City Clerk
for the respondent. The notice shall also set forth the following: The
respondent shall have ten days after the delivery of the written notice to
submit, at the office of the City Clerk, a written request for a hearing. If
the respondent does not request a hearing within said ten days, the City
Clerk's written notice shall become a final denial, suspension, or revocation,
as the case may be, on the thirtieth day after it is issued, and shall be
subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section.
      (2)   If the respondent does make a written request for a hearing within
said ten days, then the City Clerk shall, within ten days after the submission
of the request, send a notice to the respondent indicating the date, time, and
place of the hearing. The hearing shall be conducted not less than ten days nor
more than 20 days after the date that the hearing notice is issued. The City
shall provide for the hearing to be transcribed.
      (3)   At the hearing, the respondent shall have the opportunity to
present all of respondent's arguments and to be represented by counsel, present
evidence and witnesses on his or her behalf, and cross-examine any of the
city's witnesses. The City Clerk shall also be represented by counsel, and
shall bear the burden of proving the grounds for denying, suspending, or
revoking the license. The hearing shall take no longer than two days, unless
extended at the request of the respondent to meet the requirements of due
process and proper administration of justice. The Hearing Officer shall issue a
final written decision, including specific reasons for the decision pursuant to
this chapter, to the respondent within five days after the hearing.
      (4)   If the decision is to deny, suspend, or revoke the license, the
decision shall advise the respondent of the right to appeal such decision to a
court of competent jurisdiction, and the decision shall not become effective
until the thirtieth day after it is rendered. If the Hearing Officer's decision
finds that no grounds exist for denial, suspension, or revocation of the
license, the Hearing Officer shall, contemporaneously with the issuance of the
decision, order the City Clerk to immediately withdraw the intent to deny,
suspend, or revoke the license and to notify the respondent in writing by
certified mail of such action. If the respondent is not yet licensed, the City
Clerk shall contemporaneously therewith issue the license to the applicant.
   (B)   If any court action challenging a licensing decision is initiated, the
city shall prepare and transmit to the court a transcript of the hearing within
30 days after receiving written notice of the filing of the court action. The
city shall consent to expedited briefing and/or disposition of the action,
shall comply with any expedited schedule set by the court, and shall facilitate
prompt judicial review of the proceedings. The following shall apply to any
adult entertainment establishment that is lawfully operating as an adult
entertainment establishment, or any adult entertainment establishment employee
that is lawfully employed as an adult entertainment establishment employee, on
the date on which the completed business or employee application, as
applicable, is filed with the City Clerk: Upon the filing of any court action
to appeal, challenge, restrain, or otherwise enjoin the city's enforcement of
any denial, suspension, or revocation of a temporary license or annual license,
the City Clerk shall immediately issue the respondent a provisional license.
The provisional license shall allow the respondent to continue operation of the
adult entertainment establishment or to continue employment as an adult
entertainment establishment employee and will expire upon the court's entry of
a judgment on the respondent's appeal or other action to restrain or otherwise
enjoin the city's enforcement.
(Ord. 2009-005, passed 5-20-2009)
§ 113.11 TRANSFER OR LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate an adult entertainment establishment under the authority of a
license at any place other than the address designated in the adult
entertainment establishment license application.
(Ord. 2009-005, passed 5-20-2009) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.12 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No adult entertainment establishment shall be or remain open for business
between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
(Ord. 2009-005, passed 5-20-2009) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.13 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS ON
PREMISES.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated an adult entertainment
establishment which exhibits in a booth or viewing room on the premises,
through any mechanical or electronic image-producing device, a film, video
cassette, digital video disc, or other video reproduction characterized by an
emphasis on the display of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas shall comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Each application for an adult entertainment establishment license
shall contain a diagram of the premises showing the location of all operator's
stations, booths or viewing rooms, overhead lighting fixtures, and restrooms,
and shall designate all portions of the premises in which patrons will not be
permitted. Restrooms shall not contain equipment for displaying films, video
cassettes, digital video discs, or other video reproductions. The diagram shall
also designate the place at which the license will be conspicuously posted, if
granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or
architect's blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram shall be
oriented to the north or to some designated street or object and shall be drawn
to a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various
internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy
of plus or minus six inches. The City Clerk may waive the foregoing diagram for
renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously
submitted and certifies that the configuration of the premises has not been
altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of
the premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted.
      (3)   The interior premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting
fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are
permitted access at an illumination of not less than five foot candles as
measured at the floor level. It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any
employees present on the premises, to ensure that the illumination described
above is maintained at all times that the premises is occupied by patrons or
open for business.
      (4)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no specified sexual activity occurs in or on
the licensed premises.
      (5)   It shall be the duty of the operator to post conspicuous signs in
well-lighted entry areas of the business stating all of the following:
         (a)   That the occupancy of viewing rooms less than 150 square feet is
limited to one person.
         (b)   That specified sexual activity on the premises is prohibited.
         (c)   That the making of openings between viewing rooms is prohibited.
         (d)   That violators will be required to leave the premises.
         (e)   That violations of these regulations are unlawful.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the operator to enforce the regulations
articulated in division (5)(a) though (d) above.
      (7)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from an operator's station of every area of
the premises, including the interior of each viewing room but excluding
restrooms, to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose. An
operator's station shall not exceed 32 square feet of floor area. If the
premises has two or more operator's stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose, excluding restrooms, from at least one of the operator's stations.
The view required in this division must be by direct line of sight from the
operator's station. It is the duty of the operator to ensure that at least one
employee is on duty and situated in each operator's station at all times that
any patron is on the premises. It shall be the duty of the operator, and it
shall also be the duty of any employees present on the premises, to ensure that
the view area specified in this division remains unobstructed by any doors,
curtains, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials or enclosures at
all times that any patron is present on the premises.
      (8)   It shall be the duty of the operator to ensure that no porous
materials are used for any wall, floor, or seat in any booth or viewing room.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under division (A)(1)
through (A)(8) above to knowingly fail to fulfill that duty.
   (C)   No patron shall knowingly enter or remain in a viewing room less than
150 square feet in area that is occupied by any other patron.
   (D)   No patron shall knowingly be or remain within one foot of any other
patron while in a viewing room that is 150 square feet or larger in area.
   (E)   No person shall knowingly make any hole or opening between viewing
rooms.
(Ord. 2009-005, passed 5-20-2009) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.14 LOITERING, EXTERIOR LIGHTING AND MONITORING, AND INTERIOR LIGHTING
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the operator of an adult entertainment
establishment to:
      (1)   Ensure that at least two conspicuous signs stating that no
loitering is permitted on the premises are posted on the premises;
      (2)   Designate one or more employees to monitor the activities of
persons on the premises by visually inspecting the premises at least once every
90 minutes or inspecting the premises by use of video cameras and monitors; and
      (3)   Provide lighting to the exterior premises to provide for visual
inspection or video monitoring to prohibit loitering. Said lighting shall be of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which customers are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than one foot candle as measured at the
floor level. If used, video cameras and monitors shall operate continuously at
all times that the premises are open for business. The monitors shall be
installed within an operator's station.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the operator of an adult entertainment
establishment to ensure that the interior premises shall be equipped with
overhead lighting of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which
customers are permitted access at an illumination of not less than five foot
candles as measured at the floor level and the illumination must be maintained
at all times that any customer is present in or on the premises.
   (C)   No adult entertainment establishment shall erect a fence, wall, or
similar barrier that prevents any portion of the parking lot(s) for the
establishment from being visible from a public right-of-way.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under this section to
knowingly fail to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 2009-005, passed 5-20-2009) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.15 APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER TO EXISTING BUSINESSES.
   All preexisting adult entertainment establishments lawfully operating in the
city in compliance with all state and local laws prior to the effective date of
this chapter, and all adult entertainment establishment employees working in
the city prior to the effective date of this chapter, are hereby granted a de
facto temporary license to continue operation or employment for a period of 90
days following the effective date of this chapter. By the end of said 90 days,
all adult entertainment establishments and adult entertainment establishment
employees must conform to and abide by the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-005, passed 5-20-2009)
§ 113.16 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A) No patron, employee, or any other person shall knowingly or
intentionally, in an adult entertainment establishment, appear in a state of
nudity or engage in a specified sexual activity.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally, in an adult entertainment
establishment, appear in a semi-nude condition unless the person is an employee
who, while semi-nude, remains at least six feet from all patrons and on a stage
at least 18 inches from the floor in a room of at least 600 square feet.
   (C)   No employee who regularly appears semi-nude in an adult entertainment
establishment shall knowingly or intentionally touch a customer or the clothing
of a customer on the premises of an adult entertainment establishment.
   (D)   No person shall sell, use, or consume alcoholic beverages on the
premises of an adult entertainment establishment.
   (E)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly allow a person under the age
of 18 years to be or remain on the premises of an adult entertainment
establishment.
   (F)   No operator or licensee of an adult entertainment establishment shall
knowingly violate the regulations in this section or knowingly allow an
employee or any other person to violate the regulations in this section.
   (G)   A sign in a form to be prescribed by the City Clerk, and summarizing
the provisions of divisions (A), (B), (C), (D), and (E) of this section, shall
be posted near the entrance of the adult entertainment establishment in such a
manner as to be clearly visible to patrons upon entry. No person shall cover,
obstruct, or obscure said sign.
(Ord. 2009-005, passed 5-20-2009) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.17 SCIENTER REQUIRED TO PROVE VIOLATION OR BUSINESS LICENSEE LIABILITY.
   This chapter does not impose strict liability. Unless a culpable mental
state is otherwise specified, a showing of a knowing or reckless mental state
is necessary to establish a violation of a provision of this chapter.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, for the purposes of this chapter, an
act by an employee that constitutes grounds for suspension or revocation of
that employee's license shall be imputed to the adult entertainment
establishment licensee for purposes of finding a violation of this chapter, or
for purposes of license denial, suspension, or revocation, only if an officer,
director, or general partner, or a person who managed, supervised, or
controlled the operation of the business premises, knowingly or recklessly
allowed such act to occur on the premises. It shall be a defense to liability
that the person to whom liability is imputed was powerless to prevent the act.
(Ord. 2009-005, passed 5-20-2009)
§ 113.18 FAILURE OF CITY TO MEET DEADLINE NOT TO RISK APPLICANT/LICENSEE
RIGHTS.
   In the event that a city official is required to act or to do a thing
pursuant to this chapter within a prescribed time, and fails to act or to do
such thing within the time prescribed, said failure shall not prevent the
exercise of constitutional rights of an applicant or licensee. If the act
required of the city official under this chapter, and not completed in the time
prescribed, includes approval of condition(s) necessary for approval by the
city of an applicant or licensee's application for an adult entertainment
establishment license or an adult entertainment establishment employee's
license (including a renewal), the license shall be deemed granted and the
business or employee allowed to commence operations or employment the day after
the deadline for the city's action has passed.
(Ord. 2009-005, passed 5-20-2009)
§ 113.19 SEVERABILITY.
   This chapter and each section and provision of said chapter are independent
divisions and subdivisions and, not withstanding any other evidence of
legislative intent, it is declared the controlling legislative intent that if
any provisions of said chapter, or the application to any person or
circumstance is held to be invalid, the remaining sections or provisions and
the application of such sections and provisions to any person or circumstances
other than those to which it is held invalid, shall not be affected, and it is
declared that such sections and provisions would have been passed independently
of such section or provision so known to be invalid. Should any procedural
aspect of this chapter be invalidated, such invalidation shall not affect the
enforceability of the substantive aspects of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-005, passed 5-20-2009)
§ 113.20 CONFLICTING CODE PROVISIONS REPEALED.
   Any provision(s) in the Simpsonville Code of Ordinances specifically in
conflict with any provision in this chapter is hereby deemed inoperative and
repealed.
(Ord. 2009-005, passed 5-20-2009)
§ 113.21 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS
   (A)   The public entrance to an establishment engaging in adult
entertainment activities shall not be located within 1,000 feet of any building
containing a public or private elementary, middle or secondary school,
institution or higher education or business college; any park-mall or park-like
area of open space under the control of a governmental agency; any building
used for a place of religious worship; or any building used for a governmental
function or public library. The distance shall be measured along a straight
line from the nearest property line of the real estate on which the building or
public park-line area is located to the entrance to such establishment engaging
in an adult entertainment activity.
   (B)   The public entrance to an establishment engaging in adult
entertainment activities may not be located within 1,000 feet of an area zoned
as residential, or from an area used for residential purposes. The distance
shall be measured along a straight line from tile boundary line of the newest
area zoned or used for residential purposes to the entrance to such
establishment engaging in an adult entertainment activity.
   (C)   The public entrance to an establishment engaging in adult entertaining
activities shall not be located within 1,000 feet of the public entrance of
another adult entertainment activity establishment.
   (D)   The public entrance to an establishment engaging in adult
entertainment shall not be located within 500 feet of the public entrance of an
establishment licensed to serve alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 2009-005, passed 5-20-2009) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who knowingly violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses
to comply with or resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall
be punishable by a fine not to exceed $500 or imprisonment not to exceed 12
months, or both. Each day a violation is committed, or permitted to continue,
shall constitute a separate offense and shall be fined as such.
   (B)   The city's legal counsel may institute civil proceedings necessary for
the enforcement of this chapter to enjoin, prosecute, restrain, or correct
violations hereof. Such proceedings shall be brought in the name of the city,
provided, however, that nothing in this section and no action taken hereunder,
shall be held to exclude such criminal or administrative proceedings authorized
by other provisions of this chapter, or any of the laws in force in the city or
to exempt anyone violating this code or any part of the said laws from any
penalty which may be incurred.
(Ord. 2009-005, passed 5-20-2009)
CHAPTER 114: TAX ON INSURANCE PREMIUMS
Section
   
114.01   Statement of premiums collected
   
114.02   Premium defined
   
114.03   License tax imposed
   
114.04   Refund
   
114.05   License
   
114.06   Delinquency
   
114.07   Purpose and interpretation
§ 114.01 STATEMENT OF PREMIUMS COLLECTED.
   On or before March 31 of each year, each insurance company doing business in
the city shall file in the office of the City Clerk a statement of all premiums
collected in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty,
   (B)   Automobile,
   (C)   Inland marine,
   (D)   Fire and allied perils,
   (E)   Health, and/or
   (F)   Life.
(Ord. 2007-001, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 114.02 PREMIUM DEFINED.
   PREMIUM as used in this chapter shall include any assessment collection by
any said insurance company on or any payment made to it as herein provided for
insurance on property, persons, or risks within the corporate limits of the
city.
(Ord. 2007-001, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 114.03 LICENSE TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   The license tax imposed by this chapter upon an insurance company with
respect to life insurance policies shall be based upon the first year's premium
and shall be applied to the amount of such premiums actually collected within
each calendar quarter upon the lives of persons residing within the city
limits.
   (B)   The license tax imposed by this chapter upon any insurance company
with respect to any policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be based
upon the premiums actually collected by such company within each calendar
quarter on risks located within the corporation limits of the city on those
classes of businesses which such company is authorized to transact, less all
premiums returned to policyholders; however, the license tax imposed upon
premiums receipts shall not include premiums received for insuring employees
against liability for personal injuries to their employees, or death caused
thereby, under the provisions of the worker's compensation act.
   (C)   Thirty days after the end of each calendar quarter, each company shall
pay to the city a license tax of a sum equal to 5% of the said premiums
received, less the deductions hereinabove set out. There shall be no refund or
proration made on account of cancellation of any insurance policy.
(Ord. 2007-001, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 114.04 REFUND.
   (A)   No insurance company shall be entitled to a refund for any tax
erroneously paid pursuant to the terms of this chapter unless the request for
refund be made to the city in writing six months from the end of the calendar
year on which said tax is paid. Additionally, said request shall be accompanied
by documentation supporting said request which shall include at least the
following:
      (1)   The name and address of each and every insured upon whom tax was
erroneously paid;
      (2)   The type of risk being insured against;
      (3)   The amount of the insurance premium charged by the company; and
      (4)   Such other information as may be reasonably requested by the city.
   (B)   Further, unless request for refund be made as set forth above, no set
off may be made by the company for erroneously paid premiums against future
taxes owed.
(Ord. 2007-001, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 114.05 LICENSE.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
114.04, if any said insurance company has not issued any insurance on property
or persons, or covered any risk, within said city during the preceding calendar
year, then at the time it appoints an agent within said city, or if it does not
write said insurance through an agent then at the time it writes any insurance
on property or persons, or covers any risk within the city, they shall pay a
license fee of $5, which shall be credited upon the amount of license tax due
and payable when said company files its report for said calendar year as
hereinabove provided.
(Ord. 2007-001, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 114.06 DELINQUENCY.
   Any license tax not paid on or before March 1 of each year shall bear
interest at the tax rate as defined in KRS 131.101(6) from the date due until
paid. Such interest payable to the city is separate of penalties provided for
by KRS 91A.080.
(Ord. 2007-001, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 114.07 PURPOSE AND INTERPRETATION.
   The money derived from the license tax herein levied shall be used for
general purposes. This chapter is intended to exercise the city's rights as
granted in KRS 91A.080 and all definitions and interpretations shall be the
same as those under said statute.
(Ord. 2007-001, passed 1-17-2006)
CHAPTER 115: JOB DEVELOPMENT INCENTIVES
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Establishment of incentives
   
115.03   Procedure
   
115.04   Effect of interlocal agreement
   
115.05   Conflict of ordinance
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGREEMENT. Any agreement made pursuant to this chapter between the city and
an approved company with respect to an economic development project.
   APPLICANT. A business whose employees are primarily engaged or will be
engaged in retail, professional, administrative or technical occupations, or a
manufacturer, which business or manufacturer is located, or proposes to locate
its business, in the city, and which commits by agreement to create a minimum
number of new jobs and annual payroll within the city as hereinafter provided.
An APPLICANT shall not include sexually oriented business or businesses that
are primarily engaged in the sale of alcoholic beverages. An APPLICANT may also
be a company who has made investment and/or created infrastructure making it
possible for the aggregate of other employers to meet the minimum requirements
of 100 jobs and/or $5,000,000 in additional payroll.
   APPROVED COMPANY. An applicant that the Mayor deems to have qualified for an
incentive.
   APPROVED COMPANY'S EMPLOYEES. The full-time or part-time employees of an
approved company who perform services within the city and are subject to the
city's occupational license or an occupational license fee from which the city
benefits by way of interlocal agreement with Shelby County government.
   COMMENCEMENT DATE. The date that the incentive is first available to the
approved company as provided in the agreement.
   INCENTIVE. The city is currently party to an interlocal agreement with the
Shelby County Fiscal Court in regard to sharing of occupational license fees
collected by the Shelby County Fiscal Court on entities in the city. The Shelby
County Fiscal Court currently collects fees at the rate of 1%. The city
currently has its own occupational license tax ordinance (Ordinance No. 2016-
001) which assesses fees in the amount of one half of one percent (0.5%) on
applicable entities. The amount of any incentive pursuant to this chapter shall
be calculated pursuant to § 115.04. The INCENTIVE shall be refunded to the
approved company at the end of each incentive year for a term not to exceed
five years, provided the approved company agrees to operate its business within
the city or forfeit and repay to the city its incentive should it relocate or
cease to comply with the terms hereof or with its incentive contract prior to
expiration of the agreed upon term. Provided, however, the incentive addressed
hereby may be available to a company even if it is not the employer withholding
said taxes if the approved company has made investment and/or created
infrastructure making it possible for the aggregate of other employers to meet
the minimum requirement of 100 jobs and/or $5,000,000 in additional payroll.
   INCENTIVE YEAR. The 12-month period beginning on the commencement date, and
each 12 month period thereafter during the term for which the incentive is
available to the approved company.
(Ord. 2013-007, passed 6-4-2013; Am. Ord. 2020-005, passed 3-17-2020; Am. Ord.
2021-005, passed 9-7-2021)
§ 115.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF INCENTIVES.
   (A)   Standard. To the extent any applicant creates a minimum of 100 jobs
("jobs"), and/or creates a minimum annual payroll of $5,000,000 that is subject
to the city's occupational license fee ("payroll") within any given year as
provided in the agreement, the applicant shall qualify for an incentive. Such
incentive will continue for the authorized term of up to five years provided
that the approved company maintains or exceeds the jobs and payroll requirement
during any particular successive year, and otherwise is in compliance with the
terms of the agreement; or
   (B)   Kentucky Economic Development Finance Authority (KEDFA). To the extent
any applicant qualifies for a Kentucky Business Incentive and Financial
Program, administrated by the Kentucky Cabinet for Economic Development, the
City Commission may issue approval of the incentive to the applicant by
resolution, with the following exceptions:
      (1)   Employee benefit minimum requirement. At least 90% of the new,
full-time Kentucky resident employees must receive total hourly compensation
(hourly wages plus employee benefits) of at least 250% of the federal minimum
wage.
      (2)   Term of agreement: up to ten years.
   (C)   In order to be eligible to receive an incentive, an applicant must
first submit a signed request to the Mayor for his or her approval and will
provide any additional information reasonably requested to enable the Mayor to
evaluate the request. The Mayor shall evaluate each application to ensure it
meets the criteria set forth herein. If an application is approved, the Mayor
shall execute an agreement on behalf of the city and deliver to company. No
approved company will be eligible to receive an incentive until the agreement
has been properly executed. The Mayor is entitled to include such terms and
conditions within the request as he/she deems appropriate to ensure that the
city receives the full value of any benefits to be gained, including, without
limitation, provisions requiring continuing operation within the city for a
period beyond the incentive period, provisions for reimbursement of incentive
and potential penalties not to exceed 50% of the incentives offered in the
event of default of the approved company, and appropriate conditions precedent
to the triggering of incentives to ensure the city receives the full revenue
and job benefits deemed appropriate, within the limits set forth in division
(A) of this section.
   (D)   The Mayor shall render a decision on the application within 60 days of
its submission. Any decisions rendered by the Mayor shall be reported to the
City Commission at the next meeting thereof.
   (E)   If the approved company does not comply with the request by failing to
create jobs and/or payroll within any particular year during the term of the
request, then the approved company shall not receive the incentive for that
year.
(Ord. 2013-007, passed 6-4-2013; Am. Ord. 2020-005, passed 3-17-2020; Am. Ord.
2021-005, passed 9-7-2021)
§ 115.03 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   In the case of an incentive, upon entering an agreement with the city,
through its Mayor, the approved company shall withhold and remit to the city
the full amount of the occupational license tax from its approved company
employees consistent with all applicable laws and ordinances, and receive a
reimbursement from the city of the incentive in the form of a refund at the end
of each incentive year.
   (B)   Upon satisfaction that the approved company has met all of the terms
and requirements of the agreement, the city shall remit the incentive to the
approved company within 90 days after the end of each incentive year.
   (C)   Any approved company receiving an incentive shall make its payroll
book and records available to the city at such reasonable times as the city
shall request, and shall file with the city documentation respecting any
employee assessment as the city may require.
   (D)   Notwithstanding other language in this chapter to the contrary stating
that it is applicable to an employer, incentives hereunder may be applied to a
company providing infrastructure and/or investment which enables employers at
said premises to, in the aggregate, provide the minimum jobs and/or payroll
required by this chapter. In such cases, the incentive may be applied to such
investor.
(Ord. 2013-007, passed 6-4-2013; Am. Ord. 2020-005, passed 3-17-2020; Am. Ord.
2021-005, passed 9-7-2021)
§ 115.04 EFFECT OF INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT.
   The following limitations shall apply as maximum incentives. Nothing herein
shall require the city to provide the maximum incentive. However, all
incentives shall be calculated pursuant to the following:
   (A)   So long as the Shelby County Fiscal Court is participating in a
sharing of occupational license fees pursuant to interlocal agreement or by
individual agreement, incentives shall be capped at 50% of the 50% shared by
the county by the city, thus resulting in a maximum incentive of 25% to the
entity.
   (B)   At such time, if ever, as the county is not participating in an
agreement for sharing of occupational license fees within the city, then the
amount of the incentive shall be capped at one half of the fees collected by
the city from the entity pursuant to the interlocal agreement as of March 18,
2016.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prohibit the city and the county from agreeing to
an incentive exceeding amount set forth above if said amount is a result of
agreement by the Shelby County Fiscal Court to share in an amount greater than
that set forth in the interlocal agreement referred to herein above.
   The specific incentive of an approved company shall be as set forth in the
agreement. See definition of INCENTIVE for further detail.
(Ord. 2013-007, passed 6-4-2013; Am. Ord. 2020-005, passed 3-17-2020; Am. Ord.
2021-005, passed 9-7-2021)
§ 115.05 CONFLICT OF ORDINANCE.
   All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict herewith are to the extent of
such conflict, hereby repealed.
(Ord. 2021-005, passed 9-7-2021)
CHAPTER 116: RESTAURANT TAX
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Imposition and payment of tax
   
116.03   Enforcement
   
116.04   Criminal penalties
   
116.05   Information deemed confidential; penalty for disclosure; exceptions
   
116.06   Records
   
116.07   Collection of taxes
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. City of Simpsonville, Kentucky.
   RESTAURANT.
      (1)   Any fixed or mobile commercial establishment that engages in the
preparation and serving of ready-to-eat foods in portions to the consumer,
including but not limited to: restaurants, coffee shops, cafeterias, short
order cafes, luncheonettes, grilles, tea rooms, sandwich shops, soda fountains,
roadside stands, food trucks, street vendor, catering kitchens, delicatessen,
grocery stores, taverns, cocktail lounges, nightclubs or similar places in
which food in prepared for sale for consumption on the premises or elsewhere.
      (2)   RESTAURANT does not include the following:
         (a)   School cafeterias which are operated by the school system and
not an independent corporation, food vending machines, establishments serving
beverages only in single service original containers.
         (b)   Temporary food stands, operated by non-profit organizations.
Temporary food stands operated by an entity other than a non-profit
organization if such temporary food stand is operated in conjunction with any
organized festival or other public event which is sponsored either partly or
entirely by the city, but only if such temporary food stand is operated under
license from the city or agency or department thereof.
         (c)   Hospital cafeterias owned by a governmental entity and not an
independent corporation.
         (d)   Cafeterias which are located inside industrial factories in
which services are limited to employees only.
         (e)   A cafeteria which is located inside any governmental criminal
correctional facility in which services are limited to employees thereof and/or
inmates incarcerated therein.
   TOURISM COMMISSION. The Shelby County Tourist and Convention Commission.
(Ord. 2014-002, passed 2-6-2014)
§ 116.02 IMPOSITION AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   On and after April 1, 2014, every person, company, corporation or other like
or similar persons, groups or organizations doing business as restaurants,
cafes, fast food business or food vendors or like or similar business where
food is prepared for human consumption in the city shall pay monthly to the
Tourism Commission a tax of 3% of the gross retail sales of all food and
beverage, which is defined to mean gross sales excluding state sales tax,
collected by them during the preceding month. Such tax shall be due and payable
to the Tourism Commission 30 days after the last day of each month, together
with a completed return on a form furnished or obtained from the Tourism
Commission, setting forth an aggregate amount of gross sales charged, and
collected during the period to which the tax applies, together with such other
pertinent information as the Tourism Commission may require. Restaurants will
begin collecting the tax on April 1, 2014, and make the first payment before
May 31, 2014.
(Ord. 2014-002, passed 2-6-2014)
§ 116.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   All taxes collected pursuant to this chapter that are not remitted to the
Tourism Commission as required herein shall bear interest at the rate of 12%
per annum on the whole or any part left unpaid which said amount shall be added
to the principal amount due when paid.
   (A)   In the event that any restaurant taxes collected pursuant to this
chapter are not remitted to the Tourism Commission as required herein within 60
days of coming due the Tourism Commission may seek enforcement and collection
through the Simpsonville or Shelby County Attorney’s office or any civil
proceedings available to the city.
   (B)   Any person, owner, corporate officer, director, member partner or any
other individual or entity having an ownership interest in any facility subject
to this chapter is deemed responsible for insuring that all taxes due and owing
pursuant to this chapter are paid in a timely manner, 60 days or more
delinquency on the part of the establishment charged with collecting and paying
the restaurant tax shall be prima facie evidence of a willful intent not to pay
same.
(Ord. 2014-002, passed 2-6-2014)
§ 116.04 CRIMINAL PENALTIES.
   Any person who shall purposely or willfully refuse or fail to file a return
as provided for herein, or pay the tax due, or who shall knowingly file a false
or fraudulent return as required herein, shall be subject to a fine of not less
than $100 nor more than $500 and/or imprisoned in the county jail for up to 12
months.
(Ord. 2014-002, passed 2-6-2014)
§ 116.05 INFORMATION DEEMED CONFIDENTIAL; PENALTY FOR DISCLOSURE; EXCEPTIONS.
   Any information, including returns, documents, or payments made pursuant
hereto and any other information gained by the Tourism Commission or any other
official, agent, or employee of the City/Tourism Commission as a result of any
return, investigation, hearing or verification required or authorized by this
chapter shall be confidential except in accordance with proper judicial order,
or as reasonably necessary in order to prosecute civil or criminal litigation
for collection of the tax imposed herein.
   (A)   Any person or agent divulging such information shall, upon conviction,
be subjected to a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Provided, however, such person may disclose to the Commissioner of the
Revenue Cabinet of the state or his or her duly authorized agent, or the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue Service, or his or her duly authorized agent,
all such information and extend the right of the state and/or to said
Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service, but only upon the condition that
such agency must grant the Tourism Commission the reciprocal right to obtain
information form the files and records fo such other agency, and maintains the
privileged character of the information so furnished to them by the Tourism
Commission.
(Ord. 2014-002, passed 2-6-2014)
§ 116.06 RECORDS.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the restaurant to maintain books,
records, and papers in support of all amount reported on the monthly return.
The Tourism Commission and/or city shall be permitted to examine the books,
records, and papers of the restaurant upon notification in writing to the
restaurant establishment, giving at least three days’ notice of such
examination. Upon request, any restaurant subject to paying the tax imposed
herein shall provide a copy of such restaurant’s Kentucky sales and use tax
return for any period which may be in question. Provided, however, that the
restaurant shall not be obligated to provide a sales and use tax return for any
period longer than five years prior to the date of the request.
   (B)   The Tourism Commission will be permitted to examine the books, records
and papers of the restaurant upon notification in writing to the restaurant.
(Ord. 2014-002, passed 2-6-2014)
§ 116.07 COLLECTION OF TAXES.
   (A)   Restaurant taxes collected in the city shall only be expended within
the guidelines of KRS 91A.350. The Tourism Commission shall retain 50% of the
tax receipts and the city shall receive 50% of the tax to be used for tourism-
related “quality of life” initiatives in the city. These initiatives shall be
reviewed by the Tourism Board to ensure the activity falls within KRS 91A.350.
Potential “quality of life” initiatives that directly impact the tourism
industry include, but are not limited to, the following: Fall Festival, Light
Up Simpsonville, downtown development, and anything that promotes tourism in
Simpsonville.
   (B)   The Tourism Commission will remit a check each month to the city for
50% of the restaurant taxes collected in Simpsonville along with a report and
the city will deposit those monies in a separate account entitle “Simpsonville
Tourism Development Account.” These monies will be used for tourism-related
“quality of life” initiatives. The city would then submit an accounting of
those monies monthly to the Tourism Commission.
(Ord. 2014-002, passed 2-6-2014)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Unreasonable, loud and unnecessary noise
   
130.02   Curfew
   
130.03   Discharge of firearms and other explosives
§ 130.01 UNREASONABLE, LOUD AND UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person and/or persons acting in concert, to
create any unreasonable, loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise of a character,
intensity or duration as to disturb the comfort and repose of any individual,
or which interferes with the peace and quite of other persons in the city. The
conduct shall be deemed noise pollution and a public nuisance.
(Ord. 97-007, passed 7-7-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 CURFEW.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALLOW. Either permit or neglect to refrain or prevent. It requires actual
or constructive knowledge on the part of the parent or guardian; that is, the
parent or guardian must actually know about the child violating this section,
or the circumstances must be such that a reasonable prudent parent or guardian
should have known the child was violating this section.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18, or, as may be otherwise phrased,
any person of the age of 17 or under.
      PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a minor:
         (a)   As a natural or adoptive parents;
         (b)   As a legal guardian;
         (c)   As a person who stand "in loco parentis;" and/or
         (d)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of
court.
      REMAIN. To stay behind, to tarry or to stay unnecessarily upon or in any
public assembly, building, place, street or highway.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 (minor) to
remain in or upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway
within the city at night during the following periods:
      (1)   10:00 p.m. Sunday to 6:00 a.m. Monday;
      (2)   10:00 p.m. Monday to 6:00 a.m. Tuesday;
      (3)   10:00 p.m. Tuesday to 6:00 a.m. Wednesday;
      (4)   10:00 p.m. Wednesday to 6:00 a.m. Thursday;
      (5)   10:00 p.m. Thursday to 6:00 a.m. Friday;
      (6)   11:00 p.m. Friday to 6:00 a.m. Saturday; and
      (7)   11:00 p.m. Saturday to 6:00 a.m. Sunday.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian having legal custody
of a minor to allow the minor to be or remain in or upon a public assembly,
building, place, street or highway in the city under circumstances not
constituting an exception as enumerated in division (D) below during the time
periods contained in division (B) above.
   (D)   In the following exceptional cases a minor in or upon any public
assembly, building, place, street or highway in the city during the nocturnal
hours provided for in division (B) above shall not be considered in violation
of this section:
      (1)   When the minor is accompanied by a parent or guardian;
      (2)   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent or guardian of
the minor;
      (3)   When exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United
States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech
and the right of assembly; provided that, written notice signed by the minor
and countersigned by a parent is in the possession of the minor specifying
when, where and in what manner the minor will be exercising the First Amendment
rights;
      (4)   In case of reasonable necessity, but only after the minor's parent
has communicated to the law enforcement authority of the city the facts
establishing the reasonable necessity;
      (5)    When returning home, by a direct route from, and within one hour
of the termination of, a school activity or any activity of a religious or
other voluntary association; provided that, justification indicating the place
and time of termination of the event can be given to any investigating officer
of the law enforcement authority of the city;
      (6)   When authorized by regulation issued by the City Commission and/or
the Mayor in cases of reasonable necessity involving more minors than may
reasonably be dealt with on an individual basis; (The regulation should be
issued sufficiently in advance to permit publicity through news media and
through other agencies such as the schools. The regulation shall define the
activity, the scope of the use of the public assembly, building, place, street
or highway permitted, and the period of time involved not to extend more than
one hour beyond the time for termination of the activity, and the reason for
finding that such regulation is reasonably necessary.)
      (7)   When engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of Kentucky
authorize a person under 18 years of age to perform;
      (8)   When the minor is, with parental consent, in a motor vehicle with a
lawfully authorized driver; and/or
      (9)   When the minor, who is a duly authorized and licensed driver, is
operating a motor vehicle for the purpose of passing through the city, by
direct route, from one location to another either within or out of the city,
including all minors that may also be within the vehicle.
   (E)   A police officer upon finding or being notified of any minor in or
upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway whose parent is
believed to be in violation of this section shall confront the minor and
request such information as his or her name, age, address of his or her parent
or legal guardian; and upon ascertaining that the parent or guardian is
believed to be in violation of this section, shall follow the duties of a
police officer in citing the parent or guardian for the offense of violating
this section.
(Ord. 95-002, passed 4-11-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS AND OTHER EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fire, discharge or
otherwise cause to be discharged within the city any type of gun, weapon or
mechanical devise which propels or causes to be propelled any hard object with
such force and velocity to do personal injury to a human being or damage to
real or personal property.
         (b)   The prohibition in this section shall apply to all types of
firearms including shot guns, rifles, B.B. guns, pellet guns, bow and arrows,
cross bows and any other mechanical device that fits the foregoing description.
      (2)   The City Commission may, from time to time, approve the issuance of
special permits for the firing or discharging of weapons or mechanical devises
hereinabove referred to in special areas set aside and so conducted so as not
to put the health or safety of the citizens of the city or their property in
jeopardy.
      (3)   This section shall not apply to any peace officer who discharges a
firearm in connection with the performance of his or her duties as a peace
officer or to persons who discharge firearms in defense of person or property.
      (4)   Any adult knowingly permitting his children or children in his or
her custody and care to violate this section shall be guilty of a violation of
this section.
(Ord. 94-6, passed 9-13-1994)
   (B)   It is ordered that the discharge of special devices designed for the
purpose of dispersing the roosting of birds offensive to the environment is
permitted in areas within the city where the birds create a nuisance on
occasions when this problem exists, to be done under the supervision of the
city police officer, between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m.
(Order 4, passed 9-5-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
         
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
         
152.   SUBDIVISIONS AND ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
150.01   Adoption of the Kentucky Building Code
   
150.02   Designated enforcement officer
   
150.03   Building inspection program
   
150.04   Permits and fees
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF THE KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   The Kentucky Building Code, promulgated in 815 KAR 7:120 and the
Kentucky Residential Code promulgated in 815 KAR 7:125 by the Board of Housing,
Buildings and Construction, Commonwealth of Kentucky, are hereby adopted in
full as an ordinance of the City of Simpsonville, of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky as if set out at length herein;
   (B)   A copy of said Kentucky Building Code is on file in the Office of the
City Clerk, and the Clerk shall at all times keep a copy of said building code
for reference; and
   (C)   An attested copy of this chapter shall be transmitted to the
Department of Housing, Buildings, and Construction of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky.
(Ord. 2006-001, passed 2-15-2006; Am. Ord. 2013-002, passed 3-20-2013; Am. Ord.
2015-005, passed 10-15-2015)
§ 150.02 DESIGNATED ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   An officer shall by designated as the local enforcement agent/agency for
said Kentucky Building Code. All building code inspections shall be performed
by persons certified by the Kentucky Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction. All electrical inspections shall be performed by a certified
electrical inspector specifically approved by this jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2006-001, passed 2-15-2006; Am. Ord. 2013-002, passed 3-20-2013; Am. Ord.
2015-005, passed 10-15-2015)
§ 150.03 BUILDING INSPECTION PROGRAM.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 198B.060(8), a building inspection program is hereby
established in the city for application to all buildings, including single-
family dwellings as provided in the adopted codes.
   (B)   No person shall occupy or re-occupy, or let to another to occupy or
re-occupy, any dwelling or dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming units, nor
shall water, electric, or gas utilities be supplied by the city or a utility
company until an occupancy certificate has been issued.
(Ord. 2006-001, passed 2-15-2006; Am. Ord. 2013-002, passed 3-20-2013; Am. Ord.
2015-005, passed 10-15-2015)
§ 150.04 PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   A certificate of occupancy shall be issued within reasonable time
after written application therefor or a statement is given in writing
specifying the reasons why a certificate of occupancy cannot be issued.
   (B)   That the fees for electrical inspections and schedule of fees shall be
as provided for in the schedule attached to Ordinance 2017-002.
   (C)   The certificated of occupancy shall be issued in the name of the owner
as defined herein, and shall state that the dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming
house, or rooming unit is in conformance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2006-001, passed 2-15-2006; Am. Ord. 2013-002, passed 3-20-2013; Am. Ord.
2015-005, passed 10-15-2015; Am. Ord. 2017-002, passed 5-4-2017)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Objectives
   
151.01   Statutory authorization
   
151.02   Findings of fact
   
151.03   Statement of purpose
   
151.04   Objectives
General Provisions
   
151.10   Definitions
   
151.11   Lands to which chapter applies
   
151.12   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
151.13   Establishment of development permit
   
151.14   Compliance
   
151.15   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.16   Interpretation
   
151.17   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
151.18   Severability
Administration
   
151.30   Designation of Local Administrator
   
151.31   Development permit
   
151.32   Duties and responsibilities of Floodplain Administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.40   General construction standards
   
151.41   Specific standards
   
151.42   Standards for streams without established base flood elevation
(unnumbered zones) and/or floodways
   
151.43   Standards for shallow flooding zones
   
151.44   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
151.45   Standards for accessory structures in all zones beginning with the
letter "A"
   
151.46   Critical facilities
Appeals and Variances
   
151.60   Appeals and variance procedures
 
   
151.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Building Regulations; Construction, see
Chapter 150
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
§ 151.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the Commonwealth of Kentucky has in KRS 82.082 delegated
to local government units the authority to adopt regulations designed to
promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry.
Therefore, the City Commission of Simpsonville, Kentucky, hereby adopts the
following floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 2009-010, passed 8-19-2009)
§ 151.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of Simpsonville are subject to periodic
inundations which result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increased flood height and velocity, and by the location
in flood hazard areas of uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to other lands
which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise protected from
flood damage.
(Ord. 2009-010, passed 8-19-2009)
§ 151.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private loss due to flooding by
provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood height or velocity;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which accommodate or channel flood waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
areas.
(Ord. 2009-010, passed 8-19-2009)
§ 151.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines; streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard or other flood-prone areas in such
a manner as to minimize future flood blighted areas caused by flooding;
   (G)   Ensure that potential home buyers are on notice that property is in a
special flood hazard area; and
   (H)   Ensure that those who occupy a special flood hazard area assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. 2009-010, passed 8-19-2009)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the special flood hazard area (SFHA) in which the
principle source of flooding is runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a
combination of both. In A zones, floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but
waves are usually not a significant threat to structures. Areas of 100-year
flood, base flood elevations and flood hazard factors are not determined.
      A1-30 AND AE ZONES. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 1% annual
chance flood (100-year flood). Base flood elevations (BFEs) are determined.
      AH ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where depths are between
one and three feet (usually shallow ponding). Base flood elevations are shown.
      AO ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where water depth is
between one and three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain). Flood
depths are shown.
      AR/A1 - A30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO, AND ARM ZONES. Special flood hazard
areas (SFHAs) that result from the de-certification of a previously accredited
flood protection system that is in the process of being restored to provide a
100-year or greater level of flood protection. After restoration is complete
these areas will still experience residual flooding from other flooding
sources.
      A99 ZONE. That part of the SFHA inundated by the 100-year flood which is
to be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection system
under construction. No base flood elevations are determined.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure, the use of which is incidental
to the use of the principal structure. Accessory structures should constitute a
minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation, and should be
designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of accessory
structures are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay
sheds.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or from the Floodplain
Administrator's ruling on a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on a community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) where the base flood depths range from one to three
feet, there is no clearly defined channel, the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   B AND X ZONES (SHADED). Areas of the 0.2% annual chance (500-year) flood,
areas subject to the 100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot
or with contributing drainage area less than one square mile, and areas
protected by levees from the base flood.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood which has a one percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year (also called the 100-year flood). Base flood is the
term used throughout this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, A1-30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH, and AR/
AO that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that has a
1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a structure having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on all four sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure that is principally aboveground;
including a manufactured home, gas or liquid storage tank, or other man-made
facility or infrastructure. See STRUCTURE.
   C AND X (UNSHADED) ZONES. Areas determined to be outside the 500-year
floodplain.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity having the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY FLOOD HAZARD AREA (CFHA). An area that has been determined by the
Floodplain Administrator (or other delegated, designated, or qualified
community official) from available technical studies, historical information,
and other available and reliable sources, which may be subject to periodic
inundation by floodwaters that can adversely affect the public health, safety
and general welfare. Included are areas downstream from dams.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives to those communities in the regular
program to go beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to develop
extra measures for protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety or a facility which, if unusable or
unreachable because of flooding, would seriously and adversely affect the
health and safety of the public. Critical facilities include, but are not
limited to: housing likely to contain occupants not sufficiently mobile to
avoid injury or death unaided during a flood, schools, nursing homes,
hospitals, police, fire and emergency response installations, vehicle and
equipment storage facilities, emergency operations centers likely to be called
upon before, during and after a flood, public and private utility facilities
important to maintaining or restoring normal services before, during and after
a flood, and those facilities or installations which produce, use or store
volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic and/or water-reactive materials,
hazardous materials or hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. An area in which the flood hazard is undetermined.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter walls,
piling, columns (post and piers), shear walls, or breakaway walls. (See §
151.41 for freeboard requirements for residential and non-residential
structures.)
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A statement certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor on the FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification that verifies a structure's elevation and other related
information to verify compliance with this chapter.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The initial phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP, intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at subsidized
rates on all insurable structures in that community before the effective date
of the initial FIRM.
   ENCLOSURE.  That portion of a structure below the base flood elevation (BFE)
used solely for parking of vehicles, limited storage, or access to the
structure.
   ENCROACHMENT. The physical advance or infringement of uses, plant growth,
fill, excavation, structures, permanent structures or development into a
floodplain, which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for
FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to
as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first floodplain management ordinance adopted by Simpsonville based on
specific technical base flood elevation data which established the area of
special flood hazards.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (500-YEAR FLOOD). The flood that has a 0.2% chance
of being equaled or exceeded in any year. Areas subject to the 500-year flood
have a moderate to low risk of flooding.
   FLOOD, FLOODING, or FLOOD WATER.
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters; the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source;
and/or mudslides (i.e. mudflows). See MUDSLIDE.
      (2)   The condition resulting from flood-related erosion.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated the areas of flood hazards and the regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). A map on which the boundaries of the
flood, mudslide (i.e. mudflow), and flood-related erosion areas having special
hazards have been designated as Zones A, M, and/or E by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM).  A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated special flood hazard areas and risk premium zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) containing
flood profiles, the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), and/or the Flood Boundary
Floodway Map (FBFM), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by flood waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed by a NFIP participating
community to administer and enforce the floodplain management ordinances.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT.  The operation of an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing
natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited to emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management ordinances, and
open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances (such as grading and erosion control), and other applications of
police power, which control development in flood-prone areas. This term
describes federal, state and/or local regulations, in any combination thereof,
which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect, on a FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification stating that a non-residential structure, together with attendant
utilities and sanitary facilities is watertight to a specified design elevation
with walls that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water and all
structural components are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. Also
referred to as the REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. That area of the floodplain on either side of the
regulatory floodway where encroachment may be permitted without additional
hydraulic and/or hydrologic analysis.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood. Freeboard must be applied not
just to the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofing level, but also to
the level of protection provided to all components of the structure, such as
building utilities, HVAC components, etc.
   FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION. As related in §
151.60, means that the variance granted must not cause fraud on or
victimization of the public. In examining this requirement, the City Commission
will consider the fact that every newly constructed structure adds to
government responsibilities and remains a part of the community for 50 to 100
years. Structures that are permitted to be constructed below the base flood
elevation are subject during all those years to increased risk of damage from
floods, while future owners of the property and the community as a whole are
subject to all the costs, inconvenience, danger, and suffering that those
increased flood damages may incur. In addition, future owners may purchase the
property, unaware that it is subject to potential flood damage, and can be
insured only at very high flood insurance rates.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE FACILITY. A facility, structure, or other
development, which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located
or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only a docking or
port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
shipbuilding, ship repair, or seafood processing facilities. The term does not
include long-term storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   GOVERNING BODY. The local governing unit, i.e. county or municipality that
is empowered to adopt and implement ordinances to provide for the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
   HAZARD POTENTIAL. The possible adverse incremental consequences that result
from the release of water or stored contents due to failure of a dam or
misoperation of a dam or appurtenances. The hazard potential classification of
a dam does not reflect in any way the current condition of a dam and its
appurtenant structures (e.g., safety, structural integrity, flood routing
capacity).
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district.
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC).
      (1)   Increased cost of compliance coverage provides for the payment of a
claim for the cost to comply with state or community floodplain management laws
or ordinances after a direct physical loss by flood. When a building covered by
a standard flood insurance policy under the NFIP sustains a loss and the state
or community declares the building to be substantially or repetitively damaged,
ICC will help pay up to $30,000 for the cost to elevate, floodproof, demolish,
or remove the building.
      (2)   ICC coverage is available on residential and non-residential
buildings (this category includes public or government buildings, such as
schools, libraries, and municipal buildings) insured under the NFIP.
   KRS 151.250 - PLANS FOR DAMS, LEVEES, ETC. TO BE APPROVED AND PERMIT ISSUED
BY CABINET - (ENVIRONMENTAL AND PUBLIC PROTECTION CABINET).
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person and no city,
county or other political subdivision of the state, including levee districts,
drainage districts, flood control districts or systems, or similar bodies,
shall commence the construction, reconstruction, relocation or improvement of
any dam, embankment, levee, dike, bridge, fill or other obstruction (except
those constructed by the Department of Highways) across or along any stream, or
in the floodway of any stream, unless the plans and specifications for such
work have been submitted by the person or political subdivision responsible for
the construction, reconstruction or improvement and such plans and
specifications have been approved in writing by the Cabinet and a permit
issued. However, the Cabinet by regulation may exempt those dams, embankments
or other obstructions, which are not of such size or type as to require
approval by the Cabinet in the interest of safety or retention of water supply.
      (2)   No person, city, county, or other political subdivision of the
state shall commence the filing of any area with earth, debris, or any other
material, or raise the level of any area in any manner, or place a building,
barrier or obstruction of any sort on any area located adjacent to a river or
stream or in the floodway of the stream so that such filling, raising, or
obstruction will in any way affect the flow of water in the channel or in the
floodway of the stream unless plans and specifications for such work have been
submitted to and approved by the Cabinet and a permit issued as required in
division (1) above.
      (3)   Nothing in this section is intended to give the Cabinet any
jurisdiction or control over the construction, reconstruction, improvement,
enlargement, maintenance or operation of any drainage district, ditch or system
established for agricultural purposes, or to require approval of the same
except where such obstruction of the stream or floodway is determined by the
cabinet to be a detriment or hindrance to the beneficial use of water resources
in the area, and the person or political subdivision in control thereof so
notified. The Department for Natural Resources through KRS Chapter 350 shall
have exclusive jurisdiction over KRS Chapter 151 concerning the regulation of
dams, levees, embankments, dikes, bridges, fills, or other obstructions across
or along any stream or in the floodway of any stream which structures are
permitted under KRS Chapter 350 for surface coal mining operations.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps, and Flood Insurance Studies. LOMC's include the following
categories:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated SFHA. A LOMA
amends the current effective FIRM and establishes that a specific property is
not located in a SFHA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to manmade changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION - FILL (LOMR F). A determination that a
structure or parcel has been elevated by properly placed engineered fill above
the BFE and is, therefore, excluded from the SHFA.
   LEVEE. A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices. For a
levee system to be recognized, the following criteria must be met:
      (1)   All closure devices or mechanical systems for internal drainage,
whether manual or automatic, must be operated in accordance with an officially
adopted operation manual (a copy of which must be provided to FEMA by the
operator when levee or drainage system recognition is being sought or revised).
      (2)   All operations must be under the jurisdiction of a federal or state
agency, an agency created by federal or state law, or an agency of a community
participating in the NFIP.
   LIMITED STORAGE. An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items which can withstand exposure to the elements and have low
flood damage potential. Such an area must be of flood-resistant material, void
of utilities except for essential lighting, and cannot be temperature
controlled.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The elevation of the sidewalk, patio, deck support,
or basement entry way immediately next to the structure and after the
completion of construction. It does not include earth that is emplaced for
aesthetic or landscape reasons around a foundation wall. It does include
natural ground or properly compacted fill that comprises a component of a
structure's foundation system.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area including
basement. An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, structure access, or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a structure's lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected or attached to the required utilities. The
term also includes park trailers, travel trailers, and similar transportable
structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to
be improved property. The term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a
recreational vehicle (see RECREATIONAL VEHICLE).
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP. The Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The four-digit number on a flood map, followed by a letter
suffix, assigned by FEMA. The first four digits represent the map panel. The
letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised.
(The letter "A" is not used by FEMA, the letter "B" is the first revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The structure value, excluding the land (as agreed between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. Market value can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of structure (actual cash value) or
adjusted assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL (MSL). The average height of the sea for all stages of the
tide. For the purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the MSL is used
as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain as
shown on a community's FIRM. For purposes of this chapter, the term is
synonymous with either National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) 1929 or North
American Vertical Datum (NAVD) 1988.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of mitigation
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the costs of
disaster response and recovery.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e. MUDFLOW). Describes a condition where there is a river, flow,
or inundation of liquid mud down a hillside, usually as a result of a dual
condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water on
the ground, preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
mudslide (i.e. mudflow) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide is
in progress, and will be recognized as such by the Floodplain Administrator
only if the mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage
that occurs.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e. MUDFLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT.  The operation of and overall
program of corrective and preventative measures for reducing mudslide (i.e.
mudflow) damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans,
mudslide control works, and floodplain management regulations.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e. MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA. An area with land surfaces and slopes of
unconsolidated material where the history, geology, and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used as the vertical datum on the older FIRM'S. Refer to
FIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of Simpsonville's floodplain management
regulations and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of Simpsonville's adopted floodplain management ordinances.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL.  Structures that are not designed for human habitation,
including but is not limited to: small business concerns, churches, schools,
farm structures (including grain bins and silos), pool houses, clubhouses,
recreational structures, mercantile structures, agricultural and industrial
structures, warehouses, and hotels or motels with normal room rentals for less
than six months duration.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD). As corrected in 1988, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used on the newer FIRM'S and Digitally Referenced FIRM'S
(DFIRM's). (Refer to FIRM or DFIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes but is not limited to any dam, wall, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, structure, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, due to its location, its propensity to snare or
collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being carried
downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD). (See BASE FLOOD). The flood that
has a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any
flood zone that begins with the letter A is subject to the 100-year flood. Over
the life of a 30-year loan, there is a 26% chance of experiencing such a flood
with the SFHA.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. A community that voluntarily elects to participate
in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management regulations that
are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement that started
on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or after
December 31, 1974, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement, which
started on or before December 31, 1974, or before the effective date of the
initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A means of formally notifying participating NFIP communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations. During periods of probation, each insurance
policy is subject to a $50 surcharge.
   PROGRAM DEFICIENCY. A defect in a community's floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management standards or of the standards of 44 CFR 60.3,
60.4, 60.5, and/or 60.6.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to safety or health
of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons,
or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of
any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of a community's participation in the NFIP where
more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and higher
amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
(See BASE FLOOD).
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. The process by which a community brings a structure or
other development into compliance with state or local floodplain management
regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impact of non-
compliance. Reduced impact may include protecting the structure or other
affected development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement
provisions of the chapter or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or
reducing state or federal financing exposure with regard to the structure or
other development.
   REPAIR. The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing structure.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two or
more separate occasions during a ten-year period where the value of damages
equals or exceeds an average of 50% of the current value of the structure,
beginning on the date when the damage first occurred, or, four or more flood
losses of $1,000 or more over the life of the structure, or, three or more
flood losses over the life of the structure that are equal to or greater than
the current value of the structure.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new or renewal flood insurance coverage shall be
provided for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a
duly constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public
body to be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
are intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy
in flood-prone areas.
   SHEET FLOW AREA. See AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). That portion of the floodplain subject to
inundation by the base flood and/or flood-related erosion hazards as shown on a
FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1 - A30, AH, AO, or AR.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION (includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development). The date a building permit is issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
placement or other improvement is within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
(including manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings, the installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; the installation on
the property of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground;
including manufactured homes, gas or liquid storage tanks, or other man-made
facilities or infrastructures. (See BUILDING).
   SUBDIVISION. Any division, for the purposes of sale, lease, or development,
either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms and
conditions, of any tract or parcel of land into two or more lots or parcels.
   SUBROGATION. An action brought by FEMA to recover insurance money paid out
where all or part of the damage can be attributed to acts or omissions by a
community or other third party.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.  
      (1)   Any damage to a building for which the cost of repairs equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the building prior to the damage occurring.
This term includes structures that are categorized as repetitive loss.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition, REPAIR is considered to occur
when the first repair or reconstruction of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other
structural part of the building commences.
      (3)   The term does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of an historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as an
historic structure.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.  
      (1)   Any combination of reconstruction, alteration, or improvement to a
building, taking place during a one-year period in which the cumulative
percentage of improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the current market value of
the building. For the purposes of this definition, an improvement occurs when
the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of
the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
      (2)   The term does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of an historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as an
historic structure; or
         (c)   Any building that has been damaged from any source or is
categorized as repetitive loss.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS.
Repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of the streets,
utilities, and pads equaling or exceeding 50% of the value of the streets,
utilities, and pads before the repair, reconstruction, or improvement
commenced.
   SUSPENSION.  Removal of a participating community from the NFIP for failure
to enact and/or enforce floodplain management regulations required for
participation in the NFIP. New or renewal flood insurance policies are no
longer available in suspended communities.
   UTILITIES. Includes electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment.
   VARIANCE. Relief from some or all of the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. Failure of a structure or other development to fully comply with
this chapter. A structure or other development without the elevation
certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which water flows at least periodically.
   WATERSHED. All the area within a geographic boundary from which water,
sediments, dissolved materials, and other transportable materials drain or are
carried by water to a common outlet, such as a point on a larger stream, lake,
or underlying aquifer.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X zones shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% probability of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood) in any year. Unshaded X zones (C zones on older
FIRMS) designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is
less than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or a Flood
Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
(Ord. 2009-010, passed 8-19-2009)
§ 151.11 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas (SFHA), areas
applicable to KRS 151.250 and, as determined by the Floodplain Administrator or
other delegated, designated, or qualified community official as determined by
the City Commission of Simpsonville from available technical studies,
historical information, and other available and reliable sources, areas within
the jurisdiction of the City Commission of Simpsonville which may be subject to
periodic inundation by floodwaters that can adversely affect the public health,
safety, and general welfare of the citizens of Simpsonville.
(Ord. 2009-010, passed 8-19-2009)
§ 151.12 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Shelby County,
dated September 2, 2009, with the accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps
(FIRMS), other supporting data and any subsequent amendments thereto, are
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations by
Simpsonville, and for those land areas acquired by Simpsonville through
annexation. This FIS and attendant mapping is the minimum area of applicability
of this chapter and may be supplemented by studies for other areas which allow
implementation of this chapter and which are recommended to the City Commission
by the Floodplain Administrator and are enacted by City Commission pursuant to
statutes governing land use management regulations. The FIS and/or FIRM are
permanent records of Simpsonville and are on file and available for review by
the public during regular business hours at Simpsonville City Hall.
(Ord. 2009-010, passed 8-19-2009)
§ 151.13 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provision of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in the special flood hazard areas (SFHA). See §
151.31 for instructions and explanation.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2009-010, passed 8-19-2009)
§ 151.14 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable state regulations. Violation of the
requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing herein
shall prevent the City Commission from taking such lawful action as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2009-010, passed 8-19-2009)
§ 151.15 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 2009-010, passed 8-19-2009)
§ 151.16 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2009-010, passed 8-19-2009)
§ 151.17 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the City Commission of Simpsonville,
any officer or employee, the Commonwealth of Kentucky, the Federal Insurance
Administration, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency, thereof for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 2009-010, passed 8-19-2009)
§ 151.18 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter and the various parts thereof are hereby declared to be
severable. Should any section of this chapter be declared by the courts to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
chapter as a whole, or any portion thereof other than the section so declared
to be unconstitutional or invalid.
   (B)   If any section, clause, sentence, or phrase of the chapter is held to
be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, then
said holding shall not affect the validity of the chapter as a whole, or any
portion thereof other than the section so declared to be unconstitutional or
invalid.
(Ord. 2009-010, passed 8-19-2009)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.30 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Commission of Simpsonville hereby appoints the Public Works
Director to administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter
by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its provisions,
and is herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2009-010, passed 8-19-2009)
§ 151.31 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or other
development begins within any special flood hazard area established in §
151.14. Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by Floodplain Administrator prior to any development activities, and may
include, but not be limited to, the following: plans in duplicate drawn to
scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in
question; existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage
facilities; and the location of the foregoing. Endorsement of Local
Administrator is required before a state floodplain construction permit can be
processed. Specifically, the following information is required.
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level (MSL) of the
proposed lowest floor (including basement) of all structures in Zone A and
elevation of highest adjacent grade; or
      (2)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure will be floodproofed;
      (3)   All appropriate certifications from a registered professional
engineer or architect that the non-residential floodproofed structure will meet
the floodproofing criteria in §§
151.41(B) and
151.43(B);
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (B)   Construction stage.
      (1)   Upon placement of the lowest floor, and before construction
continues, or floodproofing by whatever construction means, it shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator and to the
state a certification of the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofed
elevation, as built, in relation to mean sea level. In AE, A1-30, AH, and A
zones where the community has adopted a regulatory base flood elevation, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same.
      (2)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
certified professional engineer or architect. Any continued work undertaken
prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder's
risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor and
floodproofing elevation survey data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further
progressive work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or
failure to make said corrections required hereby, shall be cause to issue a
stop-work order for the project.
(Ord. 2009-010, passed 8-19-2009)
§ 151.32 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or staff is hereby appointed,
authorized and directed to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. The Floodplain Administrator is further authorized to render
interpretations of this chapter, which are consistent with its spirit and
purpose by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Permit review. Review all development permits to ensure that:
         (a)   Permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained:
advise permittee that additional federal or state permits may be required, and
if specific federal or state permit requirements are known, require that copies
of such permits be provided and maintained on file with the development permit;
         (c)   Flood damages will be reduced in the best possible manner;
         (d)   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of affected watercourses. For purposes of this chapter, ADVERSELY
AFFECTS means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
      (2)   Review and use of any other base flood data. When base flood
elevation data has not been provided in accordance with §
151.12, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal or
state agency, or other source, in order to administer §§
151.40 through
151.46. Any such information shall be submitted to the City Commission for
adoption.
      (3)   Notification of other agencies.
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities, the Kentucky Division of Water, and
any other federal and/or state agencies with statutory or regulatory authority
prior to any alteration or relocation of the watercourse; and
         (b)   Submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Insurance
Administration, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA); and
         (c)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse is maintained.
      (4)   Documentation of floodplain development. Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed the following:
         (a)   Certification required by §
151.41(A) (lowest floor elevations) as shown on a completed and certified
elevation certificate. Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to
mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
151.31(B);
         (b)   Certification required by §
151.41(B) (elevation or floodproofing of nonresidential structures) as shown on
a completed and certified floodprooofing certificate. Verify and record the
actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the new or
substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed, in accordance with §
151.31(B);
         (c)   Certification required by §
151.41(C) (elevated structures);
         (d)   Certification of elevation required by §
151.44(A) (subdivision standards);
         (e)   Certification required by §
151.41(E) (floodway encroachments);
         (f)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
not diminished;
         (g)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
         (h)   Remedial action. Take action to remedy violations of this
chapter as specified in §
151.99.
      (5)   Map determinations. Make interpretations where needed, as to the
exact location of the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions.
         (a)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. The
person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
151.60(C)(2);
         (b)   When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been
provided in accordance with §
151.12, then the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonable
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
151.40 through
151.46;
         (c)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
Floodplain Administrator shall obtain certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect, in accordance with §
151.41(B) a floodproofing certificate;
         (d)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall
be maintained in the office of the Floodplain Administrator and shall be open
for public inspection.
      (6)   Right of entry.
         (a)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the Administrator has reasonable cause
to believe that there exists in any structure or upon any premises any
condition or ordinance violation which makes such building, structure or
premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the Administrator may enter such
building, structure or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or
perform any duty imposed upon the Administrator by this chapter.
         (b)   If such structure or premises are occupied, he or she shall
first present proper credentials and request entry. If such building,
structure, or premises are unoccupied, he or she shall first make a reasonable
effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control of such
request entry.
         (c)   If entry is refused, the Administrator shall have recourse to
every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
         (d)   When the Administrator shall have first obtained a proper
inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner or
occupant or any other persons having charge, care or control of any building,
structure, or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made as
herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the administrator for the
purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this chapter.
      (7)   Stop work orders. Upon notice from the Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in writing and
shall be given to the owner of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the
person doing the work, and shall state the conditions under which work may be
resumed.
      (8)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Administrator may revoke a permit or approval, issued under
the provisions of this chapter, in case there has been any false statement or
misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or plans on which
the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Administrator may revoke a permit upon determination by the
Administrator that the construction, erection, alteration, repair, moving,
demolition, installation, or replacement of the structure for which the permit
was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the provisions of
this chapter.
      (9)   Liability. Any officer, employee, or member of the Floodplain
Administrator's staff, charged with the enforcement of this chapter, acting for
the applicable governing authority in the discharge of his or her duties, shall
not thereby render himself or herself personally liable, and is hereby relieved
from all personal liability, for any damage that may accrue to persons or
property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his
or her duties. Any suit brought against any officer, employee, or member
because of such act performed by him or her in the enforcement of any provision
of this chapter shall be defended by the Department of Law until the final
termination of the proceedings.
      (10)   Expiration of floodplain construction permit.  A floodplain
construction permit, and all provisions contained therein, shall expire if the
holder of a floodplain construction permit has not commenced construction
within 180 calendar days from the date of its issuance by the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. 2009-010, passed 8-19-2009)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.40 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy;
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or fame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air condition equipment,
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding; and if
   (F)   Within Zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures;
   (G)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (H)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters;
   (I)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding; and
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall
meet the requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter;
   (K)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter,
shall be undertaken only if said non-conformity is not furthered, extended, or
replaced.
(Ord. 2009-010, passed 8-19-2009) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation data have been
provided, as set forth in §
151.12, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest
floor; including basement, mechanical equipment, and ductwork elevated no lower
than at or above the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation perimeter
walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the
unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with
standards of division (C) below.
      (1)   In an AO zone, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a
height equal to or exceeding the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM, or
elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number
is specified.
      (2)   In an A zone, where no technical data has been produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, elevated at or above the base flood
elevation, as determined by this community. The Floodplain Administrator will
determine the method by which base flood elevations are determined. Methods
include but are not limited to detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analyses, use
of existing data available from other sources, use of historical data, best
supportable and reasonable judgement in the event no data can be produced.
Title 401 KAR (Kentucky Administrative Regulations) Chapter 4, Regulation 060,
states as a part of the technical requirements for a state floodplain permit.
The applicant shall provide cross sections for determining floodway boundaries
(and thereby base flood elevations) at any proposed construction site where
FEMA maps are not available. All cross sections shall be referenced to mean sea
level and shall have vertical error tolerances of no more than + five-tenths
(0.5) foot. Cross sections elevations shall be taken at those points which
represent significant breaks in slope and at points where hydraulic
characteristics of the base floodplain change. Each cross section shall extend
across the entire base floodplain and shall be in the number and at the
locations specified by the Cabinet. If necessary to ensure that significant
flood damage will not occur, the Cabinet may require additional cross sections
or specific site elevations which extend beyond those needed for making routine
regulatory floodway boundary calculations.
      (3)   In all other zones, elevated at or above the base flood elevation.
Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest floor
including basement shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or
surveyor, and verified by the community Building Inspection Department to be
properly elevated. Such certification and verification shall be provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure
(including manufactured homes used for non-residential purposes) shall be
elevated to conform with division (A) above or together with attendant utility
and sanitary facilities:
      (1)   Be floodproofed below an elevation at or above the level of the
base flood elevation so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
      (3)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, mechanical equipment,
and ductwork, elevated no lower than at or above the level of the base flood
elevation; or
      (4)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this division are satisfied. Such certification shall be
provided to the official as set forth in §
151.31(A)(3);
      (5)   Manufactured homes shall meet the standards in division (D) below;
      (6)   All new construction and substantial improvement with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements) that are usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, and which are
subject to flooding, shall be constructed of flood resistant materials below an
elevation at or above the base flood elevation, and, shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwater. Opening sizes (FEMA Technical Bulletin 1-
93) for meeting this requirement must meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect;
or
         (b)   Have a minimum of two openings with a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwater.
   (C)   Elevated structures. New construction or substantial improvements of
elevated structures on columns, posts, or pilings (e.g.) that include fully
enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the base
flood elevation shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
      (1)   Opening sizes for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or higher
than the exterior foundation grade); and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
      (2)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator); and
      (3)   The interior portion of such enclosed areas shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
   (D)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   All new or substantially improved manufactured homes placed on
sites located within A, A1-30, AO, AH, and AE on the community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must meet all the requirements for new construction,
including elevation and anchoring.
         (a)   Locations include:
            1.   On individual lots or parcels;
            2.   In expansions to existing manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
            3.   In new manufactured home parks or subdivisions; or
            4.   In substantially improved manufactured home parks or
subdivisions; or
            5.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
            6.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site
upon which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of
a flood.
         (b)   All manufactured homes must be:
            1.   Elevated on a permanent foundation; and
            2.   Have its lowest floor elevated no lower than at or above the
level of the base flood elevation; and
            3.   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (2)   Except manufactured homes that have incurred substantial damage as
a result of a flood, all manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in
an existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated so that:
         (a)   The manufactured home is securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement,
so that either the:
            1.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower
than at or above the level of the base flood elevation; or
            2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less
than 36 inches in height above the highest adjacent grade.
      (3)   (a)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites located within A,
A1-30, AO, AH, and AE on the community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must
either:
            1.   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
            2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
            3.   Meet the permit requirements for new construction of this
chapter, including anchoring and elevation requirements for manufactured homes.
         (b)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is
licensed and insured in accordance with the State of Kentucky motor vehicle
regulations, is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only
by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently
attached additions.
   (E)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
151.12 are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential, the following provisions
shall apply:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other developments unless certification (with
supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in the base
flood elevation levels during occurrence of base flood discharge;
      (2)   If this division is satisfied, all new construction and substantial
improvements and other proposed new development shall comply with all
applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of §§
151.40 through
151.46.
(Ord. 2009-010, passed 8-19-2009) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.42 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION
(UNNUMBERED A ZONES) AND/OR FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
151.12, where streams exist but where no base flood data has been provided or
where base flood data has been provided without floodways, the following
provisions apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures shall be
located within special flood hazard areas, unless certification by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community. The engineering
certification should be supported by technical data that conforms to standard
hydraulic engineering principles.
   (B)   New construction or substantial improvements of structures shall be
elevated or flood proofed to elevations established in accordance with §
151.12.
(Ord. 2009-010, passed 8-19-2009) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.43 STANDARDS FOR SHALLOW FLOODING ZONES.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
151.12 are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have flood
hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet, where a clearly
defined channel does not exist and the water path of flooding is unpredictable
and indeterminate; therefore, the following provisions apply:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO, if no
flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map, above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO, if no
flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely floodproofed either to the base flood elevation or above or, in Zone
AO, to or above the specified flood depth plus a minimum of one foot so that
any space below that level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
Certification is required as stated in §
151.41(B).
(Ord. 2009-010, passed 8-19-2009) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.44 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard
area and the elevation of the base flood and be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage;
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards; and
   (D)   In areas where base flood elevation and floodway data is not available
(Zone A or unmapped streams), base flood elevation and floodway data for
subdivision proposals and other proposed development (including manufactured
home parks and subdivisions) greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is
the lesser, shall be provided.
   (E)   All subdivision plans will include the elevation of proposed structure
(s) and lowest adjacent grade. If the site is filled above the base flood
elevation, the lowest floor and lowest adjacent grade elevations shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2009-010, passed 8-19-2009) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.45 STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES IN ALL ZONES BEGINNING WITH THE
LETTER "A".
   For all accessory structures in special flood hazard areas designated "A"
the following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   Structure must be non-habitable;
   (B)   Must be anchored to resist floatation forces;
   (C)   Will require flood openings/vents no more than one foot above grade,
total openings are to be one square inch per one square foot of floor area, at
least two openings required on opposite walls;
   (D)   Built of flood resistant materials below a level at or above the base
flood elevation;
   (E)   Must elevate utilities above the base flood elevation;
   (F)   Can only be used for storage or parking;
   (G)   Cannot be modified for a different use after permitting.
(Ord. 2009-010, passed 8-19-2009) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.46 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA (100-year floodplain). Construction of
new critical facilities shall not be permissible within the floodway; however,
they may be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated one foot or more above the level of the base flood
elevation at the site. Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to
ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by or released into
floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of the base flood
elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2009-010, passed 8-19-2009) Penalty, see §
151.99
APPEALS AND VARIANCES
§ 151.60 APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Nature of variances.
      (1)   The variance criteria set forth in this section are based on the
general principle of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of property
and are not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for a parcel of
property with physical characteristics so unusual that complying with the
requirements of this chapter would create an exceptional hardship to the
applicant or the surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be
unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique
characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the structure, its
inhabitants, or the property owners.
      (2)   It is the duty of the City Commission to help protect its citizens
from flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of
insuring a structure built below flood level is so serious that variances from
the flood elevation or from other requirements in the flood ordinance are quite
rare. The long-term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can
only be met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance
guidelines provided in this chapter are more detailed and contain multiple
provisions that must be met before a variance can be properly granted. The
criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives
other than a variance are more appropriate.
   (B)   Designation of Variance and Appeal Board.  The City Commission of
Simpsonville shall establish a three member Appeal Board consisting of an
appointee of the Mayor of the City of Simpsonville, an appointee of the Mayor
of the City of Shelbyville and an appointee of the Shelby County Judge
Executive.
   (C)   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board.
      (1)   The Appeal Board shall hear and decide requests for variances from
the requirements of this chapter and appeals of decisions or determinations
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the local Circuit Court, as provided in
Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (D)   Appeals/variance procedures. In passing upon such applications, the
Appeal Board shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors,
all standards specified in other sections of this chapter, and the:
      (1)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
      (2)   Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
      (4)   Importance to the community of the services provided by the
proposed facility;
      (5)   Necessity that the facility be located on a waterfront, in the case
of functionally dependent facility;
      (6)   Availability of alternative locations which are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
      (10)   Expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
      (11)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, water systems, streets, and bridges.
   (E)   Conditions for variances. Upon consideration of the factors listed
above and the purposes of this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway
if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. MINIMUM NECESSARY means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation
from the requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to
an elevation requirement, this means the City Commission need not grant
permission for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation
the applicant proposes, but only to that elevation which the City Commission
believes will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the local
ordinance.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. In the instance of an historical structure, a determination shall be
made that the variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief and not
destroy the historic character and design of the structure.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant (as defined in this chapter); and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood height, additional threats to public safety, cause
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance (as defined in §
151.10), cause fraud or victimization of the public (as defined in §
151.10) or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (5)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
      (6)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) and the Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) upon request.
      (7)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement, and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use provided that the provisions of division (D) above
are satisfied and that the structure or other development is protected by
methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and does not result
in additional threats to public safety and does not create a public nuisance.
   (F)   Variance notification. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted
shall be given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the Shelby County Clerk and shall be recorded in
a manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of
land.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such
variances issued in the community's biennial report submission to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
   (G)   Historic structures. Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of historic structures (see definition in §
151.10) upon determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not
preclude the structure's continued designation as an historic structure and the
variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design
of the structure.
   (H)   No impact certification within the floodway. Variances shall not be
issued within any mapped or designated floodway if any increase in flood levels
during the base flood discharge would result.
(Ord. 2009-010, passed 8-19-2009)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil offense.  If, at any time, development occurs which is not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying
with the terms and conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any
approved modifications, such development shall constitute a civil offense.
   (B)   Notice of violation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator shall issue
a notice to the person responsible for the violation and/or the property owner,
stating the facts of the offense or violation, the section of this chapter and/
or of the permit violated, when it occurred, how the violation is to be
remedied to bring the development into conformity with this chapter or with the
approved permit, and within what period of time the remedy is to occur, which
period of time shall be reasonable and shall be determined by the nature of the
violation and whether or not it creates a nuisance or hazard. The remedy may
include an order to stop work on the development. The notice shall also state
that a citation may be forthcoming in the event that the requested remedies and
corrective actions are not taken, which citation will request a civil monetary
fine and shall state the maximum fine which could be imposed as set forth
below.
   (C)   Notice of citation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator may issue a
citation to the offender stating the violation, prior notices of violation
issued, how the violation is to be remedied to bring the development into
conformity with this chapter or with the approved permit, and within what
period of time the remedy is to occur, and what penalty or penalties are
recommended. When a citation is issued, the person to whom the citation is
issued shall respond to the citation within seven days of the date the citation
is issued by either carrying out the remedies and corrections set forth in the
citation, paying the civil fine set forth in the citation or requesting a
hearing before the governing body. If the person to whom the citation is issued
does not respond to the citation within seven days, that person shall be deemed
to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a violation
occurred shall be considered final.
   (D)   Penalties. Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to
comply with any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and
safeguards established in connection with granting of a variance or special
exceptions, shall constitute a misdemeanor civil offense. Any person who
violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined no more than $1,000 or imprisoned for not
more than 90 days, or both, and in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses
involved in the case. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Floodplain
Administrator from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent
or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2009-010, passed 8-19-2009)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISIONS AND ZONING
Section
   
152.01   Regulations adopted by reference
   
152.02   Official zoning map
§ 152.01 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s subdivision and zoning regulations, as amended from time to time
by the city, are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated as if set out in
full herein. A copy of the regulations shall be maintained in the city offices
and shall be available for public inspection during normal business hours.
(Ord. 2005-012, passed 12-6-2005; Am. Ord. 2006-012, passed 12-5-2006; Am. Ord.
2008-006, passed 4-1-2008; Am. Ord. 2008-13, passed 8-20-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-
002, passed 2-18-2009; Am. Ord. 2009-009, passed 8-4-2009; Am. Ord. 2010-002,
passed 2-17-2010; Am. Ord. 2013-005, passed 5-15-2013; Am. Ord. 2013-013,
passed 11-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-003, passed 4-1-2014; Am. Ord. 2015-008,
passed 12-3-2015; Am. Ord. 2016-001, passed 2-18-2016; Am. Ord. 2017-007,
passed 12-4-2017; Am. Ord. 2020-009, passed 8-3-2020)
§ 152.02 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   The new official zoning map adopted by Ordinance 2008-012 and incorporated
herein by reference shall replace and supersede the prior official zoning map.
A copy of the regulations shall be maintained in the city offices and shall be
available for public inspection during normal business hours.
(Ord. 2008-012, passed 5-29-2008)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   ANNEXATIONS
         
II.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
         
III.   PUBLIC PROJECTS
         
IV.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
         
V.   STREET CLOSINGS
         
VI.   JOINT, COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS
         
VII.   DEDICATIONS
         
VIII.   VACATIONS, EASEMENTS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
83-3     8-10-1983   Annexation of certain unincorporated property
83-5     11-8-1983   Annexation of certain unincorporated property
83-7     11-8-1983   Intent to annex certain property
84-2     3-7-1984    Annexation of certain property
88-2     10-5-1988   Annexation of certain property
89-2     2-10-1989   Annexation of certain property
93-1     6-1-1993    Annexation of certain property
93-4     11-2-1993   Annexation go certain property
93-7     12-9-1993   Intent to annex certain property
98-007   10-20-1998  Intent to annex Kingbrook Commerce Park
98-010   12-1-1998   Annexation of 350 acres of land
98-013   12-22-1998  Annexation of 350 acres of land
98-014   12-22-1998  Annexation of Kingbrook Commerce Park
2000-001 3-9-2000    Annexation of Simpsonville Elementary School
2000-005 6-20-2000   Annexation of Tom Long and Lisa Roy property
2000-014 11-9-2000   Annexation of the former King Walters Farm
01-006   9-11-2001   Annexation of the Timothy L. Pearce property
2002-008 6-14-2002   Annexation of Lots #4 and #5 in Progress Heights
2003-008 12-2-2003   Annexation of the territory known as the Whistlestop
                     Developers, LLC Property
2004-006 10-20-2004  Annexation of the territory known as the Reserve of Todds
                     Station
                     Annexation of 42.8 acres of property located south of the
2007-010 12-4-2007   present city limits on the east and west side of Ky 1848
                     and on the north and south of Ky 1399 and also including
                     I-64 interchange at Ky 1848
                     Annexation of 130.46 acres, more or less, located south of
2008-005 3-19-2008   the present city limits on the west side of Ky 1848 and
                     south of I-64 interchange at Ky 1848
                     Annexation of 9.96 acres, more or less, located south of
2008-007 4-16-08     the present city limits on the east side of Ky 1848 and
                     south of I-64 interchange at Ky 1848
2012-001 2-7-2012    Annexation of 82.356 acres of property located south of I-
                     64 and east of Ky 1848
2012-005 6-20-2012   Annexation of 0.25 acre of property located south of I-64
                     and west of Ky 1848
2012-006 6-20-2012   Annexation of 0.51 acre of property located south of I-64
                     and west of Ky 1848
2012-007 6-20-2012   Annexation of 0.64 acre of property located south of I-64
                     and west of Ky 1848
2012-008 6-20-2012   Annexation of 1.83 acres of property located south of I-64
                     and west of Ky 1848
2012-009 7-3-2012    Annexation of 1.4 acres of property located south of I-64
                     and west of Ky 1848
2012-013 11-21-2012  Annexation of 0.91 acre of property located south of I-64
                     and west of Ky 1848
                     Annexation of 315.407 acres owned by Marshall Planing
2022-006 2-6-2023    Mill, Inc., contiguous with the city limits, located on
                     the northeast side of Ky 1848 and I-64
                     Annexation of 50.227 acres of property owned by Spring
2022-007 12-20-2022  Valley Farms, LLC, adjacent to the city limits, located
                     along the east side of Ky 1848 and south of I-64
                    
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
80-1     - -1980     Creating a community antenna television franchise
94-3     4-5-1994    Granting an electricity distribution franchise
95-005   11-6-1995   Granting a non-exclusive community antenna television
                     franchise to Charter Communications II, L.P.
98-009   10-20-1998  Transfer of control of cable television franchise
                     agreement
2002-005 6-4-2002    Renewal and extension of cable television franchise
                     agreement
2006-013 12-20-2006  Granting a franchise for utility services
2013-012 10-8-2013   Granting a non-exclusive franchise for a cable television
                     system
2014-005 5-21-2014   Establishing for bid a non-exclusive natural gas franchise
2014-006 5-21-2014   Establishing for bid a non-exclusive electric franchise
2014-007 7-1-2014    Granting a non-exclusive natural gas franchise to Atmos
                     Energy for a term of 20 years
2014-008 7-1-2014    Granting a non-exclusive natural gas franchise to
                     Louisville Gas and Electric Company for a term of 20 years
2014-009 7-1-2014    Granting a non-exclusive electric franchise to Kentucky
                     Utilities Corporation for a term of 10 years
2016-006 - -         Creating and establishing for bid a non-exclusive
                     telecommunications franchise for a term of 10 years
                     Creating and establishing for bid a non-exclusive
2017-003 5-18-2017   telecommunications (or related non-cable) franchise for a
                     term of 10 years
2017-008 12-19-2017  Amending the terms of the franchise granted in Ord. 2013-
                     012
2023-002 4-18-2023   Granting a nonexclusive franchise for the operation and
                     maintenance of a cable television system within the city.
                    
 
TABLE III: PUBLIC PROJECTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
81-1     5-11-1981   Authorizing use of city property, streets and alleys for
                     construction of sewer system
81-2     10-5-1981   Authorizing the undertaking of a substantial public
                     project
81-5     10-19-1981  Municipal sewer system and designated area; reserved
89-3     3-8-1989    Authorizing and approving a project to work on the
                     community center
97-006   6-12-1997   Authorizing and approving actions taken by Building
                     Corporation for improvement of community center
2002-02  4-2-2002    Authorizing the undertaking of sanitary sewer public
                     project
2005-011 11-16-2005  Approving a lease for the financing of a public project
2007-007 9-4-2007    Issuing an industrial building taxable convertible revenue
                     bond, Neff Packaging Solutions Project
                     Authorizing and approving the issuance of general
2016-008 8-18-2016   obligation bonds, Series 2016, for the purpose of
                     financing all or a portion of various infrastructure
                     improvements
                     Authorizing the issuance of general obligation note,
2020-002 2-3-2020    Series 2020N-1, for the purpose of financing all or a
                     portion of municipal sanitary sewer system improvements
                    
 
TABLE IV: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
87-1     3-4-1987    Changing a 30.76-acre tract of land to R-3-S
88-1     8-2-1988    Changing a 2.14-acre tract of land from IC-S to R-3-S
                     Changing a 7.32-acre tract of land from R-3-S to I-S;
88-4     11-1-1988   changing a 20.0-acre tract of land from R-3-S to C-S;
                     changing a 4.14-acre tract of land from R-3-S to C-S
88-5     11-1-1988   Changing a 1.18-acre tract of land from IC-S to R-3-S
89-1     1-12-1989   Establishing PUD-S; classifying Rolling Ridge as PUD-S
89-7     11-8-1989   Changing the lot on Maplewood Drive from R-1-S to R-2-S
92-2     8-4-1992    Changing two tracts of Purnell Sausage Company from R-1-
                     S to IND-S
93-2     6-1-1993    Changing a 9.0-acre tract of land from A to R-3-S
94-5     7-8-1994    Changing a 47.4-acre tract of land from A to R-S-3
94-7     9-13-1994   Changing a 1.343-acre tract of land from IC-S to C-S
96-02    7-17-1996   Changing a 4.85-acre tract of land from R-3S to C-4
97-001   4-1-1997    Changing a 24.4-acre tract of land from R-3 to C-4
97-004   6-3-1997    Changing a 1.48-acre tract of land from C and R-1 to C-4
98-012   12-22-1998  Changing a 2.45-acre tract of land from C and AG to C-4
99-001   6-1-1999    Changing a 0.55-acre tract of land from R-1-S to C-4
99-004   7-6-1999    Changing a 0.643-acre tract of land from R-1-S to C-4
99-005   7-13-1999   Changing a 108.31-acre tract of land from R-1-S and AG to
                     R-4
99-007   10-5-1999   Changing a 1.408-acre tract of land from R-1-S to C-4
2000-006 6-20-2000   Changing a 2.99-acre tract of land from A to R-4
2000-012 10-26-2000  Changing a 0.32-acre tract of land from R-1 to C-4
2000-015 11-9-2000   Changing a 6.97-acre tract of land from A to R-4
01-008   11-14-2001  Changing a 0.658-acre tract of land from R-2 to C-3
01-011   11-14-2001  Changing a 20.33-acre tract of land from A and R-1 to R-3
2003-02  5-13-2003   Changing a lot situated at the northwest corner of
                     Shelbyville Road (US 60) and Second Street from R-2 to C-2
2004-002 6-1-2004    Changing an 80.73-acre tract from A to R-4, and a 51.01-
                     acre tract from A to R-2
2004-008 11-17-2004  Changing a 19.47-acre tract from AG to R-2
2005-001 3-1-2005    Changing a .48-acre tract from A to C-3
2005-002 5-12-2005   Changing a 29-acre tract from I-C and I-1 to X-2 (PUD)
2005-005 6-15-2005   Changing a .37-acre tract from R-2 to C-3
2005-006 6-15-2005   Changing a .19-acre tract from R-2 to C-3
2006-003 6-6-2006    Changing a .493-acre tract from R-1 to C-4
2006-004 6-6-2006    Changing a .249-acre tract from R-2 to C-2
2006-006 8-1-2006    Changing a 4.441-acre tract from AG and R-1 to R-2
2006-010 11-7-2006   Changing a .48-acre tract from R-1 to C-3
2008-010 5-6-2008    Changing a 1.99 acre tract at 7387 Shelbyville Road from
                     R-2 to C-3
                     Changing various properties on the north and south sides
2010-003 3-2-2010    of U.S. 60 from R-1 and R-2 single-family and two-family
                     residential zones, C, C-2, C-3, C-4 (commercial zones) to
                     VCFD (Village Center Forum District)
                     Changing the zoning classification of a tract of land
2011-007 12-21-2011  owned by Purnell Brothers Realty from C (Commercial) to I-
                     1 (Light Industrial) on a 2.43 acre tract adjacent to the
                     present Purnell Sausage Company
                     Changing the zoning classification of a tract of land
2012-012 9-19-2012   located on the south side of I-64 and on the west side of
                     Buck Creek Road from A (Agricultural) to X-1 (Limited
                     Interchange)
                     Changing the zoning classification of a tract of land
2012-015 12-19-2012  located on Ky 1848 from A (Agricultural) to X-1 (Limited
                     Interchange)
                     Changing the zoning classification of a tract of land
                     located on the east side of Antioch Pike, known as Lots 4
2016-011 11-17-2016  and 5 Campbell Property, address being 401 Third Street,
                     from R-1 (Low Density Residential District) to C-4
                     (Highway Commercial)
                     Changing the zoning classification of a tract of land
2016-012 11-17-2016  located at 405 Third Street, from R-1 (Low Density
                     Residential District) to C-4 (Highway Commercial)
                     Changing the zoning classification of two tracts of land
2020-012 10-5-2020   on Old Veechdale Road from R-3 (Medium Density Residential
                     District) with PUD-S to R-4 (Multi Family Residential
                     District)
                     Changing the zoning classification on 71.12 acres located
                     on Buck Creek Road (KY 1848) and Interstate 64, being
2021-001 4-20-2021   conveyed to Trio Realty Company, from IC (Interchange
                     Commercial), X-1 (Limited Interchange) and A
                     (Agricultural) to I-1 (Light Industrial)
                     Changing the zoning classification of (1) 8.957 acres
                     annexed to the city years ago, from Interchange (IC) to
                     Light Industrial (I-1); and (2) 315.407 acres, located on
2022-006 2-6-2023    the northeast side of Ky 1848 and I-64, now annexed to the
                     city, from Agricultural (A) Interchange (IC) and Light
                     Industrial (I-1) to Interchange (IC) and Light Industrial
                     (I-1)
                    
 
TABLE V: STREET CLOSINGS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
82-2     3-9-1982    Closing a portion of a public way
82-3     4-7-1982    Closing a portion of a public way
82-5     10-5-1982   Amendment; closing a portion of a public way
83-4     11-7-1983   Closing a portion of a public way
83-6     11-7-1983   Closing a portion of a public way
99-010   12-7-1999   Closing a portion of Third Street
01-009   11-6-2001   Closing an alley along Spring Street
01-012   12-27-2001  Closing an alley along Spring Street and Second Street
2007-009 9-19-2007   Closing a 40-foot roadway starting at U.S. 60 and a 10-
                     foot alley near said 40-foot roadway
2011-002 5-3-2011    Closing an alley along the west side of Todd's Point Road
2013-008 6-4-2013    Closing Proctor Lane along the west side of Buck Creek
                     Road
2014-001 1-15-2014   Closing Second Street between Spring Street and Highway 60
                    
 
TABLE VI: JOINT, COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
89-5     5-10-1989   Approving participation in interlocal agreement for self-
                     insurance, investment of public funds and the like
89-6     5-10-1989   Approving participation in KMRMA General Insurance Trust
                     An interlocal cooperation agreement between the City of
2019-001 4-16-2019   Shelbyville, the City of Simpsonville, and Shelby County
                     re-establishing a Joint Tourism and Convention Commission
                     and levying a transient room tax
                    
 
TABLE VII: DEDICATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
78-001   3-13-1978   Dedication, as public streets, of privately constructed
                     streets
 
TABLE VIII: VACATIONS, EASEMENTS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2003-005 9-2-2003    Relinquishing the westernmost 15 feet and the easternmost
                     15 feet of the Second Street right-of-way
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Cites Codes Section
KRS Cites             Codes Section
6.050                 32.47
6.955—6.975         33.04
Ch. 13A               93.02
Ch. 13B               93.06
15.409                34.26
Ch. 31                34.26
42.450—42.495       33.04
Chapter 45A           34.26
Chapter 56            34.26
Chapter 61            32.21
61.080                38.12
61.090                38.12
61.168                34.26
61.169                34.26
61.252                38.11
61.810                38.13,
                      38.68
61.815                38.13
61.823(2) - (4)       91.15
61.870                34.01
61.870—61.884       34.27,
                      38.72
61.872(4)             34.16
61.872(5)             34.17
61.872(6)             34.18
61.874(1)—(3)       34.22
61.874(3)             34.23
61.874(4)             34.23
61.874(5)             34.24
61.874(6)             34.24
61.878                34.01,
                      34.26
61.878(1)             34.26
61.880                34.19
61.884                34.21
62.060                31.04
65.003                38.03
65.067                31.04
65.120                Chapter 72
65.8840(1)(e)         92.01
65.8840(6), (7), (8)  92.04
66.660                91.06
67.750                110.25
67.753                110.28
67.758                110.32
67.760                110.30
67.763                110.27
67.765                110.27
67.768                110.30
67.770                110.31
67.773                110.30
67.775                110.25,
                      110.33
67.778                110.34
67.780                110.29
67.783                110.29
67.785                110.29
67.788                110.32
67.790                110.35,
                      110.99
82.082                38.03,
                      151.01
82.625                72.21,
                      72.22
Chapter 83A           50.01
83A.010(3)            10.02
83A.010(6)            10.02
83A.010(8)            10.02
83A.030(2)            30.02
83A.040(1)            31.21
83A.040(2)            31.21
83A.040(2)(b)         31.21
83A.040(2)(d)         31.21
83A.040(3)            31.21
83A.040(4)            32.01
83A.040(5)            32.02
83A.040(6)            31.21,
                      32.02
83A.040(7)            31.21,
                      32.02
83A.040(8)            31.21,
                      32.02
83A.040(9)            31.03
83A.050               31.20
83A.060(1)            32.35
83A.060(2)            32.36
83A.060(3)            32.37
83A.060(4)            32.38
83A.060(5)            32.39
83A.060(6)            32.22
83A.060(7)            32.38
83A.060(8)            32.40,
                      32.41
83A.060(9)            32.42
83A.060(10)           32.43
83A.060(11)           32.44
83A.060(12)           32.44
83A.060(13)           32.44
83A.060(14)           32.46
83A.060(15)           32.47
83A.065               72.99
83A.070               31.02
83A.075               31.02
83A.080               38.04
83A.080(1)            31.35
83A.080(2)            31.35
83A.080(3)            31.03,
                      31.20
83A.080(4)            31.20
83A.085               31.36
83A.090               32.04
83A.130               31.21
83A.140(1)            30.01
83A.140(2)            30.02
83A.140(3)            32.03
83A.140(4)            31.21,
                      32.20
83A.140(5)            32.03
83A.140(6)            32.04
83A.140(7)            32.21
83A.140(8)            32.03
83A.175               32.02
91A.010               33.01
91A.010(8)            10.02
91A.020               33.02
91A.030               33.03
91A.040               33.04
91A.050               33.04
91A.060               33.05
                      110.27,
91A.080               114.06,
                      114.07
91A.200               33.21
91A.210               33.20
91A.220               33.21
91A.230               33.22
91A.240               33.23
91A.250               33.24
91A.260               33.25
91A.270               33.26
91A.280               33.27
91A.290               33.28
91A.350               116.07
92.280(2)             110.27
92.281                110.27
96.360                50.99
96.539                50.13
Chapter 97            36.05
Chapter 107           33.21
Chapter 116           31.20
Chapter 117           31.20
Chapter 118           31.20
Chapter 119           31.20
Chapter 120           31.20
Chapter 121           31.20
131.101(6)            114.06
131.190               34.26
132.285               35.01
134.800               35.04
134.810               35.04
136.120               110.27
Chapter 151           151.10
151.250               151.10,
                      151.11
154.20-250—154.20-28110.27
Chapter 154           34.26
174.100               91.15
174.100(1)            91.16,
                      91.17
174.100(2)            91.17
174.100(3)            91.17,
                      91.18
174.100(4)            91.18,
                      91.19
174.100(5)            91.19,
                      91.20
178.290               91.06
189.020               71.27
189.080               75.05
189.125               75.05
189.285               73.02
189.286               75.02,
                      75.05
189.287               73.01
189.290               71.25
189.330(8)            71.02
189.338               70.15
189.394               71.05
189.450(2)            72.24
189.580               71.15
189.820               75.05
189.930               71.26
189.993(8)            71.99
196.099               34.01
198B.060(8)           150.03
211.700 et seq.       51.09
226.010               112.01
226.020               112.02
226.030               112.07
226.040               112.03
226.050               112.04
226.070               112.03
226.080               112.05
226.090               112.06
226.100               112.08
226.990(1)            112.99
226.990(3)            112.99
Chapter 227           93.07
227.700—227.750     93.01,
                      93.06
227.700               93.01,
                      93.03
227.702—227.715     93.01
227.702               93.01
227.704               93.01
227.706               93.01
227.708               93.01
227.710               93.02
227.715               93.03
227.715(7) - (9)      93.03
227.720               93.04
227.730               93.05
227.750               93.06
227.990(4)            93.99
Chapter 243           110.27
257.100               90.06
257.100(4)            90.01
Chapter 281           72.21
304.39-080            75.05
Chapter 350           151.10
Chapter 386           10.02
Chapter 386A          10.02
411.500—411.570     Chapter 92
                      Adopting Ordinance,
Chapter 424           33.04,
                      33.24,
                      33.25
424.220               33.04
436.600               90.04,
                      90.99
446.010(1)            10.02
446.010(2)            10.02
446.010(6)            10.02
446.010(8)            10.02
446.010(9)            10.02
446.010(10)           10.02
446.010(12)           10.02
446.010(13)           10.02
446.010(14)           10.02
446.010(15)           10.02
446.010(17)           10.02
446.010(18)           10.02
446.010(23)           10.02
446.010(25)           10.02
446.010(26)           10.02
446.010(27)           10.02
446.010(28)           10.02
446.010(30)           10.02
446.010(31)           10.02,
                      72.20
446.010(33)           10.02
446.010(36)           10.02
446.010(37)           10.02
446.010(39)           10.02
446.010(43)           10.02
446.010(46)           10.02
446.010(47)           10.02
446.010(49)           10.02
446.010(55)           10.02
446.020(1)            10.03
446.020(2)            10.03
446.030               10.04
446.050               10.05
446.060               10.06
446.080(1)            10.03
446.080(3)            10.03
446.080(4)            10.03
446.090               10.07
446.100               10.08
446.110               10.09
446.140               10.01
520.010               34.01
525.125               90.03
525.130               90.03
532.090(2)            72.99
534.040(2)(a)         72.99
                      
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
78-001   3-13-1978   TSO VII
80-1     - -1980     TSO II
80-3     10-14-1980  31.20
81-1     5-11-1981   TSO III
81-2     10-5-1981   TSO III
81-5     10-19-1981  TSO III
                     31.35,
82-1     2-2-1982    36.01—
                     36.04
82-3     4-7-1982    TSO V
82-5     10-5-1982   TSO V
83-3     8-10-1983   TSO I
83-4     11-7-1983   TSO V
83-6     11-7-1983   TSO V
83-5     11-8-1983   TSO I
83-7     11-8-1983   TSO I
84-1     2-7-1984    36.06
84-2     3-7-1984    TSO I
87-1     3-4-1987    TSO IV
88-1     8-2-1988    TSO IV
88-2     10-5-1988   TSO I
88-4     11-1-1988   TSO IV
88-5     11-1-1988   TSO IV
89-1     1-12-1989   TSO IV
89-2     2-10-1989   TSO I
89-3     3-8-1989    TSO III
89-4     6-6-1989    71.05
89-5     5-10-1989   TSO VI
89-6     5-10-1989   TSO VI
89-7     11-8-1989   TSO IV
92-2     8-4-1992    TSO IV
93-1     6-1-1993    TSO I
93-2     6-1-1993    TSO IV
93-4     11-2-1993   TSO I
93-7     12-9-1993   TSO I
94-3     4-5-1994    TSO II
94-5     7-8-1994    TSO IV
94-6     9-13-1994   130.03
94-7     9-13-1994   TSO IV
94-8     1-7-1994    36.05
95-002   4-11-1995   130.02
Order 4  9-5-1995    130.03
95-005   11-6-1995   TSO II
96-02    7-17-1996   TSO IV
97-001   4-1-1997    TSO IV
97-004   6-3-1997    TSO IV
97-006   6-12-1997   TSO III
97-007   7-7-1997    130.01
98-007   10-20-1998  TSO I
98-009   10-20-1998  TSO II
98-010   12-1-1998   TSO I
98-012   12-22-1998  TSO IV
98-013   12-22-1998  TSO I
98-014   12-22-1998  TSO I
99-001   6-1-1999    TSO IV
99-004   7-6-1999    TSO IV
99-005   7-13-1999   TSO IV
99-007   10-5-1999   TSO IV
99-010   12-7-1999   TSO V
2000-001 3-9-2000    TSO I
2000-005 6-20-2000   TSO I
2000-006 6-20-2000   TSO IV
2000-010 9-5-2000    31.35
2000-012 10-26-2000  TSO IV
2000-014 11-9-2000   TSO I
2000-015 11-9-2000   TSO IV
01-006   9-11-2001   TSO I
01-008   11-14-2001  TSO IV
01-009   11-6-2001   TSO V
01-011   11-14-2001  TSO IV
01-012   12-27-2001  TSO V
2002-02  4-2-2002    TSO III
2002-005 6-4-2002    TSO II
2002-008 6-14-2002   TSO I
2003-002 5-13-2003   TSO IV
2003-005 9-2-2003    TSO VIII
2003-007 9-4-2003    35.05
2003-008 12-2-2003   TSO I
2004-002 6-1-2004    TSO IV
2004-004 9-7-2004    35.05
04-005   10-20-2004  51.01 -
                     51.06
2004-006 10-20-2004  TSO I
2004-008 11-17-2004  TSO IV
2005-001 3-1-2005    TSO IV
2005-002 5-12-2005   TSO IV
2005-005 6-15-2005   TSO IV
2005-006 6-15-2005   TSO IV
2005-008 10-11-2005  35.05
2005-011 11-16-2005  TSO III
2005-012 12-16-2005  152.01
2006-001 2-15-2006   150.01 -
                     150.04
2006-003 6-6-2006    TSO IV
2006-004 6-6-2006    TSO IV
06-005   11-7-2006   51.01 -
                     51.22
2006-006 8-1-2006    TSO IV
2006-008 9-20-2006   35.05
2006-010 11-7-2006   TSO IV
2006-011 11-7-2006   32.21
2006-012 12-5-2006   152.01
2006-013 12-20-2006  TSO II
2007-001 1-17-2007   114.01 -
                     114.07
2007-002 5-16-2007   36.05
2007-004 7-3-2007    36.05
2007-007 9-4-2007    TSO III
2007-008 9-20-2007   35.05
2007-009 9-19-2007   TSO V
2007-010 12-4-2007   TSO I
2008-004 2-20-2008   92.04
2008-005 3-19-2008   TSO I
2008-006 4-1-2008    152.01
2008-007 4-16-2008   TSO I
2008-009 5-6-2008    Adopting Ordinance
2008-010 5-6-2008    TSO IV
2008-012 5-29-2008   152.02
2008-013 8-20-2008   152.01
2008-014 8-27-2008   35.05
2009-002 2-18-2009   152.01
2009-003 4-7-2009    91.40 -
                     91.48
                     113.01 -
2009-005 5-20-2009   113.21,
                     113.99
                     50.01 -
2009-006 6-17-2009   50.10,
                     50.99
2009-008 8-4-2009    36.06
2009-009 8-4-2009    152.01
                     151.01 -
                     151.04,
                     151.10 -
                     151.18,
2009-010 8-19-2009   151.30 -
                     151.32,
                     151.40 -
                     151.46,
                     151.60,
                     151.99
2009-012 9-4-2009    35.05
2010-003 3-2-2010    TSO IV
2010-006 5-19-2010   36.05
2010-008 9-9-2010    35.05
2011-001 5-3-2011    50.04
2011-002 5-3-2011    TSO V
2011-004 6-15-2011   51.01 -
                     51.22
2011-005 9-1-2011    35.05
2011-006 12-21-2011  37.01
2011-007 12-21-2011  TSO IV
2012-001 2-7-2012    TSO I
2012-002 3-6-2012    50.02
2012-004 6-5-2012    93.07, 93.99
2012-005 6-20-2012   TSO I
2012-006 6-20-2012   TSO I
2012-007 6-20-2012   TSO I
2012-008 6-20-2012   TSO I
2012-009 7-3-2012    TSO I
2012-011 9-14-2012   35.05
2012-012 9-19-2012   TSO IV
2012-013 11-21-2012  TSO I
2012-014 12-14-2012  36.07
2012-015 12-19-2012  TSO IV
2013-001 2-6-2013    50.11
2013-002 3-20-2013   150.01 -
                     150.04
2013-004 5-15-2013   Adopting Ordinance
2013-005 5-15-2013   152.01
2013-006 6-4-2013    35.07
2013-007 6-4-2013    115.01 -
                     115.04
2013-008 6-4-2013    TSO V
2013-010 8-6-2013    Adopting Ordinance
2013-011 8-21-2013   35.05
2013-012 10-8-2013   TSO II
2013-013 11-20-2013  152.01
2014-001 1-15-2014   TSO V
2014-002 2-6-2014    116.01 -
                     116.07
2014-003 4-1-2014    152.01
2014-005 5-21-2014   TSO II
2014-006 5-21-2014   TSO II
2014-007 7-1-2014    TSO II
2014-008 7-1-2014    TSO II
2014-009 7-1-2014    TSO II
2014-010 7-16-2014   110.10
2014-012 8-20-2014   35.05
2014-014 1-6-2015    37.01
2015-004 8-20-2015   35.05
2015-005 10-15-2015  150.01-
                     150.04
2015-008 12-3-2015   152.01
2015-009 12-17-2015  32.21
2016-001 2-18-2016   152.01
                     110.25 -
2016-002 3-17-2016   110.37,
                     110.99
2016-004 4-21-2016   110.27
2016-006 - -         TSO II
                     72.20 -
2016-007 7-7-2016    72.29,
                     72.99
2016-008 8-18-2016   TSO III
2016-009 8-18-2016   35.05
2016-010 11-3-2016   Adopting Ordinance
2016-011 11-17-2016  TSO IV
2016-012 11-17-2016  TSO IV
2017-002 5-4-2017    150.04
2017-003 5-18-2017   TSO III
2017-004 5-18-2017   32.21
2017-006 8-15-2017   35.05
2017-007 12-4-2017   152.01
2017-008 12-19-2017  TSO II
2018-003 5-7-2018    50.12
2018-004 6-19-2018   50.13
2018-006 9-4-2018    35.05
2019-001 4-16-2019   36.07,
                     TSO VI
2019-003 9-3-2019    35.05
2019-005 9-3-2019    37.01
2020-001 1-6-2020    50.01,
                     50.03
2020-003 2-3-2020    70.40 -
                     70.49
                     38.01 -
                     38.04,
                     38.10 -
                     38.29,
2020-004 2-18-2020   38.40 -
                     38.45,
                     38.60 -
                     38.72,
                     38.99
2020-005 3-17-2020   115.01 -
                     115.04
2020-007 5-19-2020   Adopting Ordinance
2020-008 7-6-2020    50.12
2020-009 8-3-2020    152.01
2020-011 9-22-2020   35.05
2021-001 4-20-2021   TSO IV
2021-004 9-7-2021    35.05
2021-005 9-7-2021    115.01 -
                     115.05
                     75.01 -
2022-002 8-1-2022    75.05,
                     75.99
2022-005 8-17-2022   35.05
2022-006 2-6-2023    TSO I,
                     TSO IV
2022-00  12-20-2022  TSO I
2023-001 3-6-2023    36.07
2023-002 4-18-2023   TSO II
2023-004 7-18-2023   37.01
2023-006 8-15-2023   35.05
                    
 
