SOUTHGATE, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-10 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 24-06, passed 5-15-2024
State legislation current through 2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 10-01
CITY OF SOUTHGATE
CAMPBELL COUNTY, KENTUCKY
ENACTING AS AN ORDINANCE, A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF SOUTHGATE,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE
WHEREAS, the present general ordinances of the City of Southgate are incomplete
and inadequate and the manner of arrangement, classification and indexing
thereof is insufficient to meet the immediate needs of the City; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the Commonwealth of Kentucky empower
and authorize the Legislative Body of this City to revise, amend, restate,
codify and to compile any existing ordinance or ordinances and all new
ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate the
ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Body of the City of Southgate has authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of
Southgate a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in
book form;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Legislative Body of the City of Southgate
that:
   Section 1
The general ordinances of the City of Southgate as herein revised, amended,
restated, codified, and compiled in book form are adopted as and shall
constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the City of Southgate.”
   Section 2
The Code as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the following titles:
   TABLE OF CONTENTS
   Chapter
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      10.   Rules of Construction; General Penalty
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      30.   General Provisions
      31.   City Council, Officers, and Employees
      32.   City Organizations
      33.   Code of Ethics
      34.   City Policies
      35.   Finance and Revenue; Taxation
      36.   Personnel
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      50.   Waste Collection
      51.   Sewers
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      70.   General Provisions
      71.   Traffic Regulations
      72.   Parking Regulations
      73.   Traffic Schedules
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      90.   Nuisances
      91.   Animals
      92.   Abandoned Vehicles
      93.   Streets and Sidewalks
      94.   Fire Prevention and Protection
      95.   Parks and Recreation
      96.   Fair Housing
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      110.   Occupational License Taxes
      111.   Alcoholic Beverage Control Code
      112.   Insurance Companies
      113.   Satellite Receiving Antennas
      114.   Sexually Oriented Businesses
      115.   Amusements
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      130.   Offenses Involving Minors
      131.   Offenses Against Property
      132.   Dangerous Activities and Substances
      133.   Felon Registration
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      150.   General Provisions
      151.   Flood Damage Prevention
      152.   Building Code
      153.   Subdivision Regulations
      154.   Zoning Code
      155.   Comprehensive Plan
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      I.   Contracts and Agreements
      II.   Zoning Map Changes
      III.   Street Vacations
      IV.   Franchises
      V.   Annexations
      VI.   Detachments
   Section 3
All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in the Code shall be
deemed repealed from and after the effective date of the Code, except as they
are included and re-ordained in whole or in part in the Code; provided that
such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty incurred or any
right established prior to the effective date of the Code, nor shall such
repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money,
annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises or granting special
rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the
issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of
real or personal property, granting or accepting easements or plats, accepting
dedications of land to public use, vacating or setting the boundaries of
streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal affect any other
ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not
contained in or covered by the Code.
   Section 4
The Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and approval
by the City Legislative Body and the Clerk of the City of Southgate is hereby
authorized and ordered to file a copy of the Code in the Office of the City
Clerk.
   Section 5
The Code shall be in full force and effect from and after its date of passage,
approval and publication as required by law. The Code shall be presumptive
evidence in all courts and places of the ordinance and all provisions,
sections, penalties and regulations therein contained, and of the date of
passage, and that the same is properly signed, attested, recorded and approved,
and that any public hearings and notices thereof as required by law have been
given.
   Section 6
   All Ordinances or parts of Ordinances, in conflict herewith are to that
extent only hereby repealed.
   Section 7
   This Ordinance shall take effect and be in full force from and after its
passage, approval and publication according to law.
                  CITY OF SOUTHGATE, KENTUCKY
                  A MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF THE FOURTH CLASS
                  _____________________________________
                  Jim Hamberg, Mayor
Attest:   _________________________________
      Jody, Anderson, City Clerk
1st Reading: 5/5/10
2nd Reading: 5/19/10
Publication: 6/10/10
ORDINANCE NO. 15-07
COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY
CITY OF SOUTHGATE
CAMPBELL, KENTUCKY
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF SOUTHGATE, KENTUCKY.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, OH has completed
the 2015 S-1 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Southgate,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statues;
WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SOUTHGATE OF THE COUNTY OF
CAMPBELL, COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY, AS FOLLOWS:
   Section 1
That the 2015 S-1 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Southgate, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto adopted by reference as if set out in its
entirety.
   Section 2
That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its date
of passage, approval, and publication as required by law.
Passed this 2nd day of September, 2015.
                  _____________________________________
                              JIM HAMBERG
                              Mayor
ATTESTED:
______________________________
BRANDI BARTON
City Clerk
First Reading: 8/19/15
Second Reading: 9/2/15
Published date: 9/10/15
ORDINANCE NO. 17-01
COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY
CITY OF SOUTHGATE
CAMPBELL, KENTUCKY
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF SOUTHGATE, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, OH has
completed the 2016 S-2 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Southgate, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances, namely §§ 90.03 and 91.99, for
clarity and consistency;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SOUTHGATE OF THE COUNTY OF
CAMPBELL, COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY, AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1
That the 2016 S-2 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Southgate, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, is adopted by reference as if set out in
its entirety.
Section 2
That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its date
of passage, approval, and publication as required by law.
Passed this 1st day of February 2017.
         _____________________________________
                  JAMES HAMBERG
                     Mayor
ATTESTED:
______________________________
BRANDI BARTON
City Clerk
 
First Reading: 1/18/17
Second Reading: 2/1/17
Published date: 2/9/17
ORDINANCE NO. 18-01
COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY
CITY OF SOUTHGATE
CAMPBELL, KENTUCKY
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF SOUTHGATE, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, OH has
completed the 2017 S-3 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Southgate, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SOUTHGATE OF THE COUNTY OF
CAMPBELL, COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY, AS FOLLOWS:
   Section 1
That the 2017 S-3 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Southgate, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, is adopted by reference as if set out in
its entirety.
   Section 2
That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its date
of passage, approval, and publication as required by law.
Passed this 7th day of March 2018.
                                       _____________________________________
                                       JAMES HAMBERG
                                       Mayor
ATTESTED:
______________________________
BRANDI BARTON
City Clerk
First Reading: 2/21/18
Second Reading: 3/7/18
Published date:
ORDINANCE NO. 19-01
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF SOUTHGATE, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, OH has
completed the 2018 S-4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Southgate, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SOUTHGATE OF THE COUNTY OF
CAMPBELL, COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY, AS FOLLOWS:
   Section 1
That the 2018 S-4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Southgate, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, is adopted by reference as if set out in
its entirety.
   Section 2
That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its date
of passage, approval, and publication as required by law.
Passed this 6th day of March 2019.
                                       James Hamberg /s/
                                       JAMES HAMBERG
                                       Mayor
ATTESTED:
Brandi Barton /s/
BRANDI BARTON
City Clerk
First Reading: 2/6/19
Second Reading: 3/6/19
Published date:
ORDINANCE NO. 20-03
COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY
CITY OF SOUTHGATE
CAMPBELL, KENTUCKY
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF SOUTHGATE, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, OH has
completed the 2019 S-5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Southgate, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SOUTHGATE OF THE COUNTY OF
CAMPBELL, COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY, AS FOLLOWS:
   Section 1
That the 2019 S-5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Southgate, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, is adopted by reference as if set out in
its entirety.
   Section 2
That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its date
of passage, approval, and publication as required by law.
Passed this 1st day of April 2020.
                                       James Hamberg /s/
                                       JAMES HAMBERG
                                       Mayor
ATTESTED:
Brandi Barton /s/
BRANDI BARTON
City Clerk
First Reading: 2/19/2020
Second Reading: 4/1/2020
Published date:
ORDINANCE NO. 21-01
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF SOUTHGATE, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, OH has
completed the 2020 S-6 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Southgate, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SOUTHGATE OF THE COUNTY OF
CAMPBELL, COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY, AS FOLLOWS:
   Section 1
That the 2020 S-6 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Southgate, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, is adopted by reference as if set out in
its entirety.
   Section 2
That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its date
of passage, approval, and publication as required by law.
Passed this 20th day of January 2021.
                        James Hamberg /s/
                        JAMES HAMBERG
                        Mayor
ATTESTED:
Brandi Barton /s/
BRANDI BARTON
City Clerk
First Reading: 1/6/2021
Second Reading: 1/20/2021
Published date: 1/28/2021
ORDINANCE NO. 22-01
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF SOUTHGATE, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, OH has
completed the 2021 S-7 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Southgate, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SOUTHGATE OF THE COUNTY OF
CAMPBELL, COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY, AS FOLLOWS:
   Section 1
That the 2021 S-7 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Southgate, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, is adopted by reference as if set out in
its entirety.
   Section 2
That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its date
of passage, approval, and publication as required by law.
Passed this 19 day of January, 2022.
                        James Hamberg /s/
                        JAMES HAMBERG
                        Mayor
ATTESTED:
Brandi Barton /s/
BRANDI BARTON
City Clerk
First Reading: 1/5/22
Second Reading: 1/19/22
Published date: 1/27/22
ORDINANCE NO. 23-02
   COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY
   CITY OF SOUTHGATE
   CAMPBELL, KENTUCKY
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF SOUTHGATE, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, OH has
completed the 2023 S-8 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Southgate, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SOUTHGATE OF THE COUNTY OF
CAMPBELL, COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY, AS FOLLOWS:
   Section 1
That the 2023 S-8 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Southgate, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, is adopted by reference as if set out in
its entirety.
   Section 2
That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its date
of passage, approval, and publication as required by law.
Passed this 1 day of March, 2023.
                                       James Hamberg /s/
                                       JAMES HAMBERG
                                       Mayor
ATTESTED:
Brandi Barton /s/
BRANDI BARTON
City Clerk
 
First Reading: 2/15/23
Second Reading: 3/1/23
Published date:
ORDINANCE NO. 24-01
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF SOUTHGATE, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, OH has
completed the 2023 S-9 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Southgate, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SOUTHGATE OF THE COUNTY OF
CAMPBELL, COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY, AS FOLLOWS:
   Section 1
That the 2023 S-9 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Southgate, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, is adopted by reference as if set out in
its entirety.
   Section 2
That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its date
of passage, approval, and publication as required by law.
Passed this 17th day of January, 2024.
                                       James Hamberg /s/
                                       JAMES HAMBERG
                                       Mayor
ATTESTED:
Brandi Barton /s/
BRANDI BARTON
City Clerk
First Reading: 1/3/24
Second Reading: 1/17/24
Published date:
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
City of Southgate, Kentucky, Code of Ordinances, for which designation
“codified ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code, title, chapter, and
section headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the
code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to those
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code, other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see KRS 446.140
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature, except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   BUSINESS TRUST. Includes, except when utilized in KRS Chapter 386, a
“statutory trust” as organized under KRS Chapter 386A.
(KRS 446.010(6))
   CATTLE. Includes horse, mule, ass, cow, ox, sheep, hog, or goat of any age
or sex.
(KRS 446.010(8))
   CERTIFIED MAIL. Any method of governmental, commercial, or electronic
delivery that allows a document or package to have proof of:
      (1)   Sending the document or package;
      (2)   The date the document or package was delivered or delivery was
attempted; and
      (3)   The signature of the receipt of the document or package.
(KRS. 446.010(9))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Southgate,
Kentucky, irrespective of its population or legal classification.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(11))
   COUNCIL. The city legislative body.
(KRS 83A.010(5))
   COUNTY. Campbell County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(16))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor.
(KRS 83A.010(6))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
business trust, statutory trust, or limited liability company, includes all
those incorporated or formed by authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(19))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(24))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Council Member.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Southgate, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH.
(KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited PARTNERSHIPS.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers, and other persons with similar authority
to make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   REGISTERED MAIL. Any governmental, commercial, or electronic method of
delivery that allows a document or package to have:
      (1)   Its chain of custody recorded in a register to enable its location
to be tracked;
      (2)   Insurance available to cover its loss; and
      (3)   The signature of the recipient of the document or package available
to the sender.
(KRS 446.010(36))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property, except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, and mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, and its officers or an agency thereof; or any
duly authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, schoolyard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even-numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected, and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN. Includes AFFIRMED in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Exists when there is an unexpired part of a term of
office without a lawful incumbent therein, when the person elected or appointed
to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has been no
election to fill the office at the time appointed by law. It applies whether
the vacancy is occasioned by death; resignation; removal from the state,
county, city, or district; or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing, as well as to several persons or things. (KRS
446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females, as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases, and
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to that meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or notice shall mean the
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving that authority to a majority of the
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include those acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance that, if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional, the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise;
the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with and
dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council would
not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part; or the
remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of being executed
in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council, as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment,
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to
any offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings.
   (B)   If any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any
provision of the new ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party
affected, be applied to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein.
      (1)   Any chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances
may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages.
      (2)   Subsequent ordinances as printed or omitted shall be prima facie
evidence of the subsequent ordinances until Council shall adopt a new code of
ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in this code should be used by the
city to amend, add, or repeal a chapter, section, or division of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the
codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
bearing the latest passage date shall prevail.
   (B)   If the conflicting provisions bear the same passage date, the conflict
shall be so construed as to be consistent with the meaning or legal effect of
the questions of the subject matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error be discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any word or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the
intention of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no
meaning can be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or
words was clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be
corrected, and the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will
conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same
effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as originally
published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985; Ord. 30, passed - -; Ord. passed 1-1-1995; Ord.
passed - -)
   (B)   If a Kentucky Revised Statutes (KRS) cite is included in the history,
this indicates that the text of the section reads word-for-word the same as the
statute. Example:
(KRS 83A.090)
   (C)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see KRS 61.870 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation, and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see KRS 83A.065
   Maximum fine for violations, see KRS 534.040(2)(c)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   CITY COUNCIL, OFFICERS, AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   CODE OF ETHICS
      
34.   CITY POLICIES
      
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
      
36.   PERSONNEL
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Specific corporate powers of the city
   
30.02   Branches of the city government
§ 30.01 SPECIFIC CORPORATE POWERS OF THE CITY.
   The city shall have the specific corporate power to sue and be sued;
contract and be contracted with; acquire and hold property for municipal
purposes; have a common seal and change it at pleasure; receive property of
every kind and character for municipal, educational, charitable, and
recreational purposes; and control and distribute the same for the purposes of
gift. The city shall also have any other powers as pertinent sections of the
statutes may prescribe.
(1993 Code, § 20.01)
§ 30.02 BRANCHES OF THE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   The government of the city shall be vested in a legislative and executive
branch. No department shall exercise any power properly belonging to either of
the others, except as provided by law.
(1993 Code, § 20.02)
CHAPTER 31: CITY COUNCIL, OFFICERS, AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   City government, officers, and employees; generally
   
31.02   Compensation of City Council Members and Mayor
City Council
   
31.15   Generally
   
31.16   Meetings and special sessions
   
31.17   Journal
   
31.18   Rules of procedure
   
31.19   Order of business
   
31.20   Budget proposal
City Officers and Employees
   
31.35   Mayor
   
31.36   City Clerk
   
31.37   City Treasurer
   
31.38   City Attorney
   
31.39   City Police Chief
   
31.40   City Engineer
   
31.41   City Building Inspector
   
31.42   City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
   
31.43   Appointment of additional employees
   
31.44   Nonpartisan elections
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 CITY GOVERNMENT, OFFICERS, AND EMPLOYEES; GENERALLY.
   (A)   The government of the city shall be vested in a Mayor and a City
Council.
   (B)   The City Council shall consist of six Council Members who shall be
elected at large.
   (C)   There shall also be a City Police Chief, City Inspector, and any other
officers and employees as may be necessary for the conduct of the affairs of
the city as provided by state law.
(1993 Code, § 21.01)
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION OF CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS AND MAYOR.
   The compensation for the Mayor and City Council shall be increased annually
on March 1 of each and every year commencing 3-1-1990. The increase shall be
the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index as set forth by the state
pursuant to KRS 83A.075.
(1993 Code, § 21.15) (Ord. 91-11, passed 10-2-1991)
CITY COUNCIL
§ 31.15 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Each City Council Member shall be an elector, qualified voter, and
resident of the city. No person who has been defeated in any primary shall be a
candidate for any city office in the same year.
   (B)   Each City Council Member shall be elected by the qualified voters of
the city at the regular general election which is to be held in November 1969
and each two years thereafter and shall take office on January 1 succeeding his
or her election. He or she shall take the constitutional oath of office and
hold office for two years or until his or her successor is elected or appointed
and qualified.
   (C)   The City Council shall establish any rules for the conduct of its
proceedings as may be necessary and may punish any City Council Member or other
person for disorderly behavior at any meeting.
   (D)   The City Council shall have the power to pass ordinances which are not
in conflict with the Constitutions of the United States and the state; however,
no ordinance or resolution granting a franchise for any purpose shall be passed
by the City Council on the date of its introduction, within five days
thereafter, or at any time other than at a regular meeting and no resolution or
order for the payment of money shall be passed at any time other than at a
regular meeting. The City Council shall have any other powers as are prescribed
by law.
   (E)   The City Council shall receive any compensation as is fixed by the
City Council.
(1993 Code, § 20.03)
§ 31.16 MEETINGS AND SPECIAL SESSIONS.
   (A)   The regular meetings of the City Council shall be held on the first
and third Wednesdays of each month commencing at the time of 7:30 p.m., and all
meetings shall be held in the City Council chamber on the second floor of the
City Building located at 122 Electric Avenue, Southgate, Kentucky; however, if
for any reason it is impracticable to hold a meeting at the place designated,
it may be held elsewhere.
   (B)   A majority of the City Council Members shall constitute a quorum.
   (C)   The Mayor may call a special session by reasonable notice whenever he
or she considers it necessary and shall call a special session whenever
requested in writing by four City Council Members.
   (D)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council and shall
decide all points of order. He or she may vote only in the case of a tie.
(1993 Code, § 20.04)
§ 31.17 JOURNAL.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall keep a complete journal of all proceedings of the
City Council. The City Council shall approve the journal at each meeting, and
the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem shall sign it.
   (B)   The journal of the City Council is a public record and shall be
preserved and entitled to full faith and credit as such.
(1993 Code, § 20.05)
§ 31.18 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   It is now provided that Robert’s Rules of Order for deliberate assemblies is
adopted as controlling in the proceedings of the City Council in all cases in
which these rules are applicable, not inconsistent with any rule adopted by the
City Council, or not contrary to any provision of law.
(1993 Code, § 20.06)
§ 31.19 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The business and proceedings of the City Council at each called meeting
shall be conducted as nearly as practicable according to the following order:
salute to the flag; roll call; approval of the minutes of the previous meeting;
reports of the city officers; reports of the committees; introduction and
reading of ordinances and resolutions; miscellaneous business; reading of
communications; presentation and reading of bills; and adjournment.
(1993 Code, § 20.07)
§ 31.20 BUDGET PROPOSAL.
   (A)   The annual budget proposal shall detail the raising of revenue from
all sources, including grants and transfers, and the spending of money for
specified programs, functions, activities, or objectives of the city, including
all principal and interest due on debts for the budget year. The total of
anticipated revenue shall equal or exceed the total of proposed expenditures.
   (B)   The form of the annual budget proposal shall be consistent in form, to
the extent practical, with the accounting system of the city.
   (C)   The annual budget proposal shall provide a complete program and
financial plan for all funds for the budget year. It shall contain a budget
message as specified in the state statutes and a budget summary as specified in
division (D) below supported by an estimate of the fund balance carried forward
as specified in division (E) below; an estimate of all anticipated revenue of
the city compared to previous years as specified in division (F) below;
proposed expenditures compared to previous years as specified in division (G)
below; and an estimate of anticipated transfers as specified in division (H)
below.
   (D)   At the end of the annual budget proposal, there shall appear a summary
of the budget which need not be itemized further than by principal sources of
anticipated revenue and proposed expenditures by program, function, activity,
or objective of the city in such a manner as to present a simple and clear
summary of the detailed estimates of the budget components.
   (E)   Each fund balance available for appropriation shall be limited to the
amount by which assets are estimated to exceed liabilities at the beginning of
the budget year.
   (F)   In parallel columns opposite the several items of anticipated revenue,
there shall be placed the amount of each item actually received during the next
preceding fiscal year; the total amount of each item actually received to the
time of the preparation of the annual budget proposal, plus the anticipated
receipts for the remainder of the current fiscal year estimated as accurately
as possible; and the amount of each item anticipated to be received during the
budget year estimated as accurately as possible.
   (G)   In parallel columns opposite the several items of proposed
expenditures, there shall be placed the amount of each item actually expended
during the next preceding fiscal year; the total amount of each item actually
expended to the time of the preparation of the annual budget proposal, plus the
anticipated expenditures for the remainder of the current fiscal year estimated
as accurately as possible; and the amount of each item anticipated to be
appropriated during the budget year estimated as accurately as possible.
   (H)   Any anticipated excess revenue, if legally available for general
purposes and to the extent the excess is to be used to support other funds,
shall be stated as a transfer item in the annual budget proposal.
(1993 Code, § 20.08)
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 31.35 MAYOR.
   (A)   The Mayor shall have and possess the same qualifications as City
Council Members.
   (B)   The Mayor shall be elected by the qualified voters of the city of the
regular general election which is to be held in November 1969 and each four
years thereafter and shall take office on January 1 succeeding his or her
election. He or she shall take the constitutional oath of office and hold
office for four years or until his or her successor is elected or appointed and
qualified.
   (C)   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the city and shall
have general supervision over its affairs; see that all ordinances of the city
are strictly enforced and observed; preside at all meetings of the City Council
and, in the case of a tie vote, vote on any question before the City Council;
countersign all warrants drawn by the City Clerk on the city treasury; sign all
written contracts entered into by the city; have the power to administer oaths
and affirmations, take affidavits, and certify them under his or her hand; sign
all instruments which require the seal of the city; sign all deeds or
conveyances executed by the city and acknowledge the execution of all
instruments executed by the city which need to be acknowledged; sign the
minutes of all meetings held by the City Council after their adoption and
approval; and sign all ordinances adopted by the City Council.
   (D)   The Mayor may approve or veto any ordinance or resolution and may veto
any separate item of an ordinance appropriating money. Any ordinance,
resolution, or item of an appropriation ordinance vetoed by the Mayor may be
passed over as provided in the state statutes.
   (E)   If the Mayor fails to sign an ordinance or resolution or to render it
to the City Clerk with his or her written objection within ten days after
passage, the ordinance or resolution shall take effect without his or her
signature.
   (F)   The Mayor may require written information from any city officer on any
subject relating to the duties of that officer. He or she shall be the head of
the city police and may command them in the performance of their duties. He or
she shall be the conservator of peace and, when he or she considers it
necessary to enforce the laws of the city, save lives or property, or quell
riots or mobs, he or she may summon into service any citizen, either civil or
military; and, in those cases, he or she shall be present and command in
person. The City Council shall by ordinance prescribe fines and penalties for
disobedience of the orders and summons of the Mayor. The Mayor shall perform
any other duties as may be imposed upon him or her by ordinance.
(1993 Code, § 21.02)
§ 31.36 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   No person shall be eligible for the Office of City Clerk unless he or
she is a qualified elector within the city and has been a resident for at least
one year prior to his or her appointment.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall be appointed by the Mayor and approved by the
City Council on January 1 succeeding his or her election or as soon thereafter
as is practicable. He or she shall take the constitutional oath of office and,
before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, shall execute bond to
the city in the penal sum of $2,000, which bond, after the approval of the City
Council, shall be filed with the Mayor. The City Clerk shall hold office for
two years from the date of his or her appointment or until his or her successor
is appointed and qualified, subject to removal for good cause at any time by
the Mayor.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to keep a complete journal of
all proceedings of the City Council and any other records as may be required
and to discharge any other duties as the City Council may require.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall receive any compensation as is established by the
City Personnel and Pay Classification Plan.
(1993 Code, § 21.04)
§ 31.37 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall be appointed by the Mayor and approved by the
City Council on January 1 succeeding his or her election or as soon thereafter
as is practicable. He or she shall take the constitutional oath of office and,
before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, shall execute bond to
the city in the penal sum of $3,000, which bond, after the approval of the City
Council, shall be filed with the City Clerk. The City Treasurer shall hold
office for two years from the date of his or her appointment or until his or
her successor is appointed and qualified, subject to removal for good cause at
any time by the Mayor.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the City Treasurer to receive and safely keep
all money belonging to the city. He or she shall pay it out as directed by
order of the Mayor. He or she shall keep an accurate account of all receipts
and disbursements showing when, from whom and to whom, for what purpose, and on
what account city funds were received or paid and shall exhibit the accounting
so kept. At the first regular meeting of the City Council, the City Treasurer
shall send his or her monthly report each month to the City Council, which
report shall have been credited by the Financial Committee. Every three months,
the City Treasurer shall make a financial exhibit giving a statement of all
receipts with their sources.
   (C)   The City Treasurer shall receive any compensation as is established by
the City Personnel and Pay Classification Plan.
(1993 Code, § 21.05)
§ 31.38 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The City Attorney must be a practicing attorney and a resident of the
state.
   (B)   The City Attorney shall be appointed by the Mayor and approved by the
City Council on January 1 succeeding his or her election or as soon thereafter
as is practicable. He or she shall take the constitutional oath of office
before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties and shall hold office
for two years from the date of his or her appointment or until his or her
successor is appointed and qualified, subject to removal for good cause at any
time by the Mayor.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to advise the city
authorities and officers on all legal matters pertaining to the business of the
city; to represent the city in a legal capacity; to draft all ordinances as the
City Council may desire and direct; to prosecute diligently the collection of
all delinquent taxes, assessments, licenses, and fees placed in his or her
hands for collection; and to discharge any other duties as may be required of
him by the City Council. The City Attorney shall attend the meetings of the
City Council, advise it on all matters of legislation or legal proceedings, and
perform any other duty required by the city.
   (D)   The City Attorney shall receive any compensation as is established by
contract. For his or her services in collecting delinquent taxes, assessments,
licenses, and fees, the City Attorney shall receive a sum equal to the amount
of additional interest collected on the delinquent taxes, assessments,
licenses, and fees. The City Council may, in special cases, employ a qualified
attorney who shall receive any compensation as the City Council prescribes.
(1993 Code, § 21.06)
§ 31.39 CITY POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   No person shall be eligible for the Office of City Police Chief unless
he or she is a resident of the state; at least 21 years of age; able to read
and write the English language intelligibly; and of sober, moral, and sagacious
character. No person who has been convicted of a felony shall be eligible for
the appointment. After his or her appointment, he or she shall not interfere in
any election.
   (B)   The Police Chief shall be appointed by the Mayor and approved by the
City Council on January 1 succeeding his or her election or as soon thereafter
as is practicable. He or she shall take the constitutional oath of office and,
before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, shall execute bond to
the city in the penal sum of $2,500, which bond, after the approval of the City
Council, shall be filed with the City Clerk. The Police Chief shall hold office
for not longer than two years from the date of his or her appointment or until
his or her successor is appointed and qualified, subject to removal for good
cause at any time by the Mayor.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Police Chief to be second in command to
the Mayor. He or she shall attend all sessions of the City Council, execute its
orders, and preserve order at its sessions. He or she shall cause proceedings
to be instituted against anyone carrying on business or doing any act without a
license for which a license is required. The Police Chief and every member of
the police force, whether directed to them or not, may execute warrants of
arrest, processes, subpoenas, and attachments for witnesses. They may arrest,
if prescribed by law, for offenses against ordinances or municipal regulations
of the city and shall have the same power of arrest for offenses against the
state as the Sheriff.
   (D)   The Police Chief shall receive any compensation as is established by
the City Personnel and Pay Classification Plan.
(1993 Code, § 21.07)
§ 31.40 CITY ENGINEER.
   (A)   The City Engineer shall be appointed by the Mayor and approved by the
City Council on January 1 succeeding his or her election or as soon thereafter
as is practicable. He or she shall hold office for two years, subject to
removal for good cause at any time by the Mayor.
   (B)   The City Engineer shall keep an office within the city; see that all
public works and improvements are executed according to contract, plans, and
specifications; and certify that they are so executed. It shall be the duty of
the City Engineer to advise city authorities and officers on all engineering
matters which may arise and pertain to the business of the city.
   (C)   The City Engineer shall perform any other duties as are required of
him or her by ordinance not inconsistent with the law.
   (D)   The City Engineer shall receive any compensation as is established by
contract.
(1993 Code, § 21.08)
§ 31.41 CITY BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall be appointed by the Mayor and approved by
the City Council on January 1 succeeding his or her election or as soon
thereafter as is practicable. The Building Inspector shall hold office for two
years from the date of his or her appointment or until his or her successor is
appointed and qualified, subject to removal for good cause at any time by the
Mayor.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to enforce all laws
relating to the construction, alteration, repair, removal, and demolition of
buildings and structures. The Building Inspector may permit, on the basis of
duly authenticated reports from recognized sources, the use of new materials or
modes of construction not provided for and may adopt the accepted standards of
material or workmanship of federal or state bureaus, national technical
organizations , or fire underwriters. He or she shall be under the direct
control of the Mayor. All licenses and building fees shall be paid to the
Building Inspector, who shall transfer them to the City General Fund within
five days after receiving the same. The Building Inspector shall make a written
report to the City Council monthly, quarterly, semiannually, or annually, as
required by the City Council, summarizing all activities of his or her office
for the previous specified period.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall receive any compensation as is
established by the City Council.
(1993 Code, § 21.09)
§ 31.42 CITY ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator shall be appointed by the
Mayor and approved by the City Council on January 1 succeeding his or her
election or as soon thereafter as is practicable. The Alcoholic Beverage
Control Administrator shall hold office for two years from the date of his or
her appointment or until his or her successor is appointed and qualified,
subject to removal for good cause at any time by the Mayor. The office of the
Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator may be combined with and made a part
of any other position or office of the city, at the discretion of the Mayor.
Before entering upon his or her duties, the Alcoholic Beverage Control
Administrator shall take the oath of office required by law.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
to establish all regulations for the administration and control of alcoholic
beverage licensees and licensed premises as provided by law.
   (C)   The Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator shall receive any
compensation as is established by the City Council.
(1993 Code, § 21.10)
§ 31.43 APPOINTMENT OF ADDITIONAL EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Mayor and/or the City Council may appoint any other employees as
it deems necessary to conduct the affairs of the city consistent with state
laws.
   (B)   All city officers, including City Council Members, shall take office
on January 1 following their election or appointment. Any officer appointed by
the City Council shall be appointed by the City Council elected at the November
election preceding the commencement of his or her term.
(1993 Code, § 21.11)
§ 31.44 NONPARTISAN ELECTIONS.
   (A)   The election of city officers for the city shall conform to all state
statutes that relate to nonpartisan elections.
   (B)   The city hereby foregoes the conduct of a nonpartisan primary election
for the nomination of candidates to city elective office pursuant to KRS
83A.045(2)(b).
(1993 Code, § 21.12) (Ord. 91-02, passed 2-6-1991)
CHAPTER 32: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Police Department
   
32.01   Creation
   
32.02   Law Enforcement Foundation Program Fund
   
32.03   Educational requirements
   
32.04   In-service training
   
32.05   Salary incentives
   
32.06   Applicable laws
   
32.07   Size and location of the Police Department
   
32.08   Police Department Rules and Regulations Manual adopted
   
32.09   Portions of the Police Department Rules and Regulations Manual deleted
   
32.10   Authorization to carry concealed and deadly weapons
   
32.11   Police Department accreditation policies and procedures adopted by
reference
Vacant Property Review Commission
   
32.25   Statutory authority
   
32.26   Establishment
   
32.27   Membership
   
32.28   Effective date
Tourist and Convention Committee
   
32.40   Creation
   
32.41   Composition
   
32.42   Vacancies
   
32.43   Terms
   
32.44   Officers
   
32.45   Meetings and quorum
   
32.46   Audit
   
32.47   Transient room tax
Code Enforcement Board
   
32.50   Definitions
   
32.51   Creation and membership
   
32.52   Enforcement powers
   
32.53   Appointment of members; term of office; removal from office; oath
   
32.54   Organization of Board; meetings; quorum
   
32.55   Conflict of interest
   
32.56   Powers of the Code Enforcement Board
   
32.57   Enforcement proceedings
   
32.58   Hearing; notice; and final order
   
32.59   Presentation of cases
   
32.60   Appeals; final judgement
   
32.61   Lien; fines, charges and fees
   
32.62   Lienholder notification system
   
32.63   Liens
   
32.64   Immediate action
 
   
32.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   City Council, Officers, and Employees, see
Ch. 31
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.01 CREATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created the City Police Department.
   (B)   The following positions are established within the City Police
Department:
      (1)   Chief of Police;
      (2)   Police Lieutenant;
      (3)   Police Sergeant;
      (4)   Police Specialist;
      (5)   Police Detective; and
      (6)   Police Officer (Patrol Officer).
(Ord. 02-2000, passed 3-1-2000; Ord. 18-03, passed 3-7-2018)
§ 32.02 LAW ENFORCEMENT FOUNDATION PROGRAM FUND.
   The city declares its intention to participate in the Law Enforcement
Foundation Program Fund established by the state statutes.
(1993 Code, § 23.05)
§ 32.03 EDUCATIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Each officer employed on or after 7-1-1973 shall have, as a minimum
educational attainment, a high school degree or its equivalent as determined by
the State Law Enforcement Council.
   (B)   Each officer employed on or after 7-1-1973 shall, within one year of
his or her date of employment, complete a basic training course of at least
400-hours duration at a school certified or recognized by the State Law
Enforcement Council.
(1993 Code, § 23.06)
§ 32.04 IN-SERVICE TRAINING.
   (A)   Each officer, whether originally employed before or after 7-1-1972,
shall successfully complete each year an in-service training course of 40-hours
duration appropriate to his or her rank and responsibility at a school
certified or recognized by the State Law Enforcement Council.
   (B)   Each officer shall receive in each calendar year five days off with
pay for the purpose of taking the required in-service training.
(1993 Code, § 23.07)
§ 32.05 SALARY INCENTIVES.
   No officer shall have his or her base salary reduced or be denied a normal
salary increase to which he or she is otherwise entitled because of the salary
incentive payments provided under the state statutes.
(1993 Code, § 23.08)
§ 32.06 APPLICABLE LAWS.
   The Police Department and each officer shall comply with all provisions of
law applicable to local police, including the transmission of data to the
Bureau of Criminal Information and Statistics, as required by the state
statutes.
(1993 Code, § 23.09)
§ 32.07 SIZE AND LOCATION OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The Police Department and each officer shall further comply with all
reasonable rules and regulations appropriate to the size and location of the
City Police Department to facilitate the administration of the Fund and further
the purposes of the state statutes.
(1993 Code, § 23.10)
§ 32.08 POLICE DEPARTMENT RULES AND REGULATIONS MANUAL ADOPTED.
   The Police Department Rules and Regulations Manual is adopted by reference.
(1993 Code, § 23.11)
§ 32.09 PORTIONS OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT RULES AND REGULATIONS MANUAL DELETED.
   (A)   The Police Department Rules and Regulations Manual was hereby amended
in that §§ 14.42, 14.43, and 14.44 are deleted and eliminated in their
entirety.
   (B)   Any police officer who is guilty of violating any Police Department
rules and regulations, and has been so found, shall be subject to action as set
forth in the City Personnel Policies and Procedures Manual.
   (C)   A copy of the Police Department Rules and Regulations and of the
Personnel Policies and Procedures Manual are available for inspection during
regular business hours in the office of the city, 122 Electric Avenue,
Southgate, Kentucky.
(1993 Code, § 23.12) (Ord. 92-02, passed 2-19-1992)
§ 32.10 AUTHORIZATION TO CARRY CONCEALED AND DEADLY WEAPONS.
   (A)   All members of the City Police Department who carry deadly weapons on
or about their persons when performing their duties as members of the Police
Department be and the same hereby are authorized to carry concealed deadly
weapons on or about their persons at all times within the state.
   (B)   The deadly weapons which may be carried by the members of the Police
Department are those weapons that are usually carried by the officers in
performing their duties when on regular duty within the city.
   (C)   It is the intent and purpose of this section to protect the members of
the City Police Department from prosecution under the provisions of KRS 527.020
(3) on those occasions as are specified in the statute.
(1993 Code, § 23.13) (Ord. 91-04, passed 3-20-1991)
§ 32.11 POLICE DEPARTMENT ACCREDITATION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ADOPTED BY
REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Southgate Police Department accreditation policies and procedures
are hereby adopted by reference as if set out here in full.
   (B)   A copy of the policies and procedures shall at all times remain on
file in the office of the Police Chief for the city.
(Ord. 18-10, passed 7-31-2018)
VACANT PROPERTY REVIEW COMMISSION
§ 32.25 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   The provisions of KRS 99.700 through 99.730 are hereby adopted and made
applicable by reference, as authorized by KRS 83A.060(5), to the corporate
limits of the city. A copy of the statutes are attached to the ordinance
codified herein and made a part hereof by reference.
(1993 Code, § 82.11) (Ord. 91-10, passed 10-2-1991)
§ 32.26 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established, pursuant to the above-named statutes, the City
Vacant Property Review Commission as of the effective date of this subchapter,
which shall certify properties as blighted or deteriorated to the City Council.
(1993 Code, § 82.11) (Ord. 91-10, passed 10-2-1991)
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned urban properties tax, see §
35.22
§ 32.27 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Generally. The Vacant Property Review Commission membership is as
follows.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   The Commission shall consist of three members appointed by the
Mayor for terms of four years. The members shall be citizens of the city.
      (2)   Vacancies shall be filled by the Mayor for the unexpired portion of
the term.
      (3)   Each member shall be at least 21 years of age. No officer or
employee of the city whose duties include enforcement of city housing,
building, plumbing, fire, or related codes shall be appointed to the
Commission.
      (4)   A member of the Commission may be removed by the Mayor for cause,
after a hearing by the Mayor, and after having been given reasonable notice of
charges and/or complaints.
      (5)   The Mayor shall designate one of the members of the Commission to
be Chairperson and one to be Vice-Chairperson. The Commission shall submit an
annual report of its activities to the Mayor.
      (6)   Members shall serve without compensation.
(1993 Code, § 82.11) (Ord. 91-10, passed 10-2-1991)
§ 32.28 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective and be in force from and after its
passage and publication according to law.
(1993 Code, § 82.11) (Ord. 91-10, passed 10-2-1991)
TOURIST AND CONVENTION COMMITTEE
§ 32.40 CREATION.
   There is created the Tourist and Convention Committee, established for the
purpose of promoting recreational, tourist, and convention activity in the
city.
(1993 Code, § 22.01)
§ 32.41 COMPOSITION.
   (A)   Generally. The Tourist and Convention Committee shall be composed of
seven members, who shall serve without compensation, be citizens and voters of
the county, and be jointly appointed by the Mayor and the County Judge
Executive.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Two Committee members shall be from a list of not less than four
names submitted by the local city hotel and motel association or, in the
absence of that association, by the Northern Kentucky Chamber of Commerce.
      (2)   One Committee member shall be from a list of not less than two
names submitted by the local county hotel and motel association or, in the
absence of that association, by the local city hotel and motel association or,
in the absence of either a city or county hotel and motel association, by the
Northern Kentucky Chamber of Commerce.
      (3)   One Committee member shall be from a list of not less than two
names submitted by the local restaurant association or, in the absence of that
association, by the Northern Kentucky Chamber of Commerce.
      (4)   One Committee member shall be from a list of not less than two
names submitted by the Northern Kentucky Chamber of Commerce.
      (5)   One Committee member shall be appointed by the Mayor.
      (6)   One Committee member shall be appointed by the County Judge
Executive.
(1993 Code, § 22.02)
§ 32.42 VACANCIES.
   Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner that the original appointments
are made.
(1993 Code, § 22.03)
§ 32.43 TERMS.
   The Committee members shall be appointed for terms of three years; however,
of the initial appointments, two Committee members shall be appointed for terms
of four years, and three Committee members shall be appointed for terms of one
year.
(1993 Code, § 22.04)
§ 32.44 OFFICERS.
   The Tourist and Convention Committee shall annually elect from its
membership a Chairperson, a Secretary, and a Treasurer and shall make the
contracts necessary to effectively carry out the purposes of the state
statutes. These contracts may include, but not be limited to, the procurement
of promotional, advertising, and other services and materials relating to the
promotion of tourist and convention business. Contracts of the type enumerated
shall be made only with persons, organizations, and firms with experience and
qualifications for providing promotional services and materials, such as
advertising firms, chambers of commerce, publishers, and printers.
(1993 Code, § 22.05)
§ 32.45 MEETINGS AND QUORUM.
   The Tourist and Convention Committee shall meet at least monthly in regular
session at the City Building and may hold any other meetings as are necessary
to transact its business. Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson or
by the written call of any two Committee members. A majority of the membership
shall constitute a quorum for transacting business; but a majority vote, in
person, of the entire membership shall be required to take any official action
or to approve any contract.
(1993 Code, § 22.06)
§ 32.46 AUDIT.
   The books of the Tourist and Convention Committee shall be audited annually
by an independent auditor, who shall make a report to the Committee, to the
organizations submitting names from which Committee members are selected, and
to the County Judge Executive.
(1993 Code, § 22.07)
§ 32.47 TRANSIENT ROOM TAX.
   Prior to November 1, the Tourist and Convention Committee shall annually
submit to the City Council a request for funds for the operation of the
Committee for the ensuing year. For the purposes of operating the Tourist and
Convention Committee and to finance the cost of the acquisition, construction,
operation, and maintenance of facilities useful in the attraction and promotion
of tourist and convention business, there is imposed a transient room tax of 3%
of the gross rentals. On and after January 1, every person, company,
corporation, or other like or similar person, group, or organization doing
business as a motor court, motel, hotel, inn, or like or similar accommodation
business within the city shall pay quarterly into the city treasury for the
periods ending September 30, December 31, March 31, and June 30 of each year a
transient room tax of 3% of the gross rentals for every occupancy of a suite or
room charged and collected by the business during the quarterly periods. The
transient room tax shall be due and payable on or before the last day of the
month next following the last day of each quarterly period and shall be
submitted, along with a return on a form furnished by or obtained from the City
Treasurer setting forth the aggregate amount of the gross rentals charged and
collected during the preceding quarter for every occupancy to which the
transient room tax applies, together with any other pertinent information the
City Treasurer may require. The transient room tax shall not apply to rentals
paid on occupancies of 90 consecutive days or longer. The transient room tax
shall be in addition to other taxes.
(1993 Code, § 22.08) Penalty, see §
32.99
CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
§ 32.50 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   ABATEMENT COSTS. A city’s necessary and reasonable costs for and associated
with clearing, preventing unauthorized entry to, or demolishing all or a
portion of a structure or premises, or taking any other action with regard to a
structure or premises necessary to remedy a violation and to maintain and
preserve the public health, safety and welfare in accordance with any city
ordinance.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. An administrative body created and acting under the
authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act, KRS 65.8801 to
65.8839.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A city police officer, safety officer, citation
officer, or other public law enforcement officer with the authority to issue a
citation.
   FINAL ORDER. Any order:
      (1)   Issued by the Code Enforcement Board following a hearing in
accordance with §
32.58(E);
      (2)   Created because a violator neither paid nor contested the citation
within seven days as provided in §
32.57(F); or
      (3)   Created because a violator failed to appear at a hearing the
violator requested to contest the citation as provided in §
32.58(C).
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
   ORDINANCE. An official action of the local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and
shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by the city
legislative body which embodies all or part of an ordinance.
   OWNER. A person, association, corporation, partnership or other legal entity
having a legal or equitable title in real property.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, including any structures upon it.
(Ord. 16-10, passed 10-19-2016)
§ 32.51 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby created within the city, pursuant to KRS 65.8801 through
65.8839 a Code Enforcement Board which shall be composed of three members, all
of whom shall be residents of the city for a period of at least one year prior
to the creation of the Board and shall reside there throughout the term in
office.
(Ord. 16-10, passed 10-19-2016)
§ 32.52 ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial
orders and impose civil fines as a method of enforcing city ordinances when a
violation of the ordinance has been classified as a civil offense.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Board shall not have the authority to enforce any
ordinance regulating conduct which would also, under any provision of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes, constitute a criminal offense or a moving motor
vehicle offense.
(Ord. 16-10, passed 10-19-2016)
§ 32.53 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; OATH.
   (A)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be appointed by the Mayor
of the city, subject to approval by the City Council.
   (B)   The initial appointments to the Board shall be as follows:
      (1)   One member shall be appointed for a term of one year.
      (2)   One member shall be appointed for a term of two years.
      (3)   One member shall be appointed for a term of three years.
   (C)   All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of three years. A
member may be reappointed, subject to the approval of the City Council.
   (D)   The Mayor may appoint, subject to the approval of the City Council,
two alternate members to serve on the Code Enforcement Board in the absence of
regular members. Alternate members shall meet all of the qualifications and
shall be subject to all of the requirements that apply to regular members of
the Code Enforcement Board.
   (E)   Any vacancy on the board shall be filled by the Mayor, subject to
approval of the City Council, within 60 days of the vacancy. If the vacancy is
not filled within that time period, the remaining Code Enforcement Board
members shall fill the vacancy. A vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of
the unexpired term.
   (F)   A Board member may be removed from office by the Mayor for misconduct,
inefficiency, or willful neglect of duty. The Mayor shall submit a written
statement to the member and the City Council setting forth the reasons for
removal. The member so removed shall have the right of appeal to the Campbell
Circuit Court.
   (G)   All members of the Code Enforcement Board shall, before entering upon
the duties of their office, take the oath of office prescribed by § 228 of the
Kentucky Constitution.
   (H)   No member of the Board shall hold any elected or appointed office,
whether paid or unpaid, or any other positions or employment with the city.
(Ord. 16-10, passed 10-19-2016)
§ 32.54 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD; MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall annually elect a Chair from among its
members. The Chair shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member of
the Board. In the absence of the chair, the remaining members of the Board
shall select a member to preside in place of and exercise the powers of the
chair.
   (B)   Regular meetings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be held pursuant
to the Board’s bylaws. Meetings other than those regularly scheduled shall be
special meetings or emergency meetings held in accordance with the requirements
of the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (C)   All meetings and hearings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be
public meetings held in accordance with the requirements of KRS 65.8815(5) and
the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (D)   The presence of at least a majority of the Code Enforcement Board’s
entire membership and/or alternate membership shall constitute a quorum. The
affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of the board shall be necessary for
any official action to be taken.
   (E)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Code Enforcement
Board and the vote of any member on any issue decided by the board shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Ord. 16-10, passed 10-19-2016)
§ 32.55 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Any member of the Code Enforcement Board who has any direct or indirect
financial or personal interest in any matter to be decided shall disclose the
nature of the interest, shall disqualify himself from voting on the matter in
which he has an interest, and shall not be counted for purposes of establishing
a quorum.
(Ord. 16-10, passed 10-19-2016)
§ 32.56 POWERS OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.
   The City of Southgate Code Enforcement Board shall have the following powers
and duties:
   (A)   To adopt rules and regulations to govern its operations and the
conduct of its hearings consistent with this chapter.
   (B)   To conduct hearings to determine if there has been a violation of an
chapter over which it has jurisdiction.
   (C)   To subpoena alleged violators, witnesses and evidence to its hearings.
Subpoenas issued by the Code Enforcement Board may be served by any Code
Enforcement Officer.
   (D)   To take testimony under oath. The Chair shall have the authority to
administer oaths for the purpose of taking testimony.
   (E)   To make findings of fact and issue orders necessary to remedy any
violation of a city ordinance or code provision which the Board is authorized
to enforce.
   (F)   To impose civil fines, as authorized, on any person found to have
violated an ordinance over which the Board has jurisdiction.
(Ord. 16-10, passed 10-19-2016)
§ 32.57 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Code Enforcement Board:
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings shall only be initiated by the issuance of a
citation by a Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Except when immediate action is necessary pursuant to §
32.64, if a Code Enforcement Officer believes, based on his personal
observation or investigation, that a person has violated a city ordinance, he
shall issue a notice of violation allowing the alleged violator a specified
period of time to remedy the violation without incurring a fine. If the alleged
violator fails or refuses to remedy the violation within the time specified,
the Code Enforcement Officer is authorized to issue a citation.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall issue a citation by one of the
following methods:
      (1)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
      (2)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person 18 years of age or
older who is on the premises, if the alleged violator is not on the premises at
the time the citation is issued; or
      (3)   Posting a copy of the citation in a conspicuous place on the
premises and mailing a copy of the citation by regular, first-class mail to the
owner of record of the property, if no one is on the premises at the time the
citation is issued.
   (D)   The citation issued by the Code Enforcement Officer shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (4)   The date and time the offense was committed;
      (5)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (6)   The section of the code or the number of the ordinance violated;
      (7)   The name of the Code Enforcement Officer;
      (8)   The civil fine that may be imposed for the violation;
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (10)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation within the time allowed: the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board to contest the citation; the determination that the violation
was committed shall be final; the citation as issued shall be deemed a final
order determining that the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine
as set forth in the citation; and the person shall be deemed to have waived the
right to appeal the final order to District Court.
   (E)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall notify the Code Enforcement Board by delivering the citation to
City Clerk.
   (F)   (1)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven days of the date of issuance by either paying the civil
fine or requesting, in writing, a hearing to contest the citation. If the
person fails to respond to the citation within seven days, the person shall be
deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a
violation was committed shall be
considered final. In this event, the citation as issued shall be deemed a final
order determining that the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine
as set forth in the citation, and the person shall be deemed to have waived the
right to appeal the final order to District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the notice.
(Ord. 16-10, passed 10-19-2016)
§ 32.58 HEARING; NOTICE; AND FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing has been requested, the Code Enforcement Board or its
administrative staff shall schedule a hearing.
   (B)   Not less than seven days before the date of the hearing, the Code
Enforcement Board shall notify the requester of the date, time, and place of
the hearing. The notice may be given by regular first-class mail; certified
mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at
the person's usual place of residence with any individual residing therein who
is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of the notice.
   (C)   (1)   Any person requesting a hearing who fails to appear at the time
and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to a
hearing to contest the citation, and the determination that a violation was
committed shall be final. In this event, the citation as issued shall be deemed
a final order determining the violation was committed and imposing the civil
fine set forth in the citation, and the alleged violator shall be deemed to
have waived the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the notice.
   (D)   All testimony at the hearing shall be taken under oath and recorded.
Testimony shall be taken from the Code Enforcement Officer, the alleged
violator, and any witnesses to the violation offered by the Code Enforcement
Officer or alleged violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but
fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (E)   The Code Enforcement Board shall, based on the evidence, determine
whether a violation was committed. If it is determined that no violation was
committed, an order dismissing the citation shall be entered. If it is
determined that a violation was committed, an order may be issued upholding the
citation. The Board may impose a fine up to the maximum authorized by
ordinance, or require the offender to remedy a continuing violation to avoid a
fine, or both.
   (F)   (1)   Every final order following a hearing shall be reduced to
writing, which shall include the findings and conclusions reached and the date
the order was issued. A copy shall be furnished to the person named in the
citation.
      (2)   If the person named in the citation is not present when the final
order is issued, the order shall be delivered to the person by regular first-
class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by
leaving the notice at the person’s usual place of residence with any individual
residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the
contents of the notice.
(Ord. 16-10, passed 10-19-2016)
§ 32.59 PRESENTATION OF CASES.
   Each case before the Code Enforcement Board shall be presented by an
attorney selected by the city, a Code Enforcement Officer for the city, or by a
member of the city’s administrative staff. The City Attorney may either be
counsel to the Code Enforcement Board or may present cases before the Code
Enforcement Board, but shall in no case serve in both capacities.
(Ord. 16-10, passed 10-19-2016)
§ 32.60 APPEALS; FINAL JUDGEMENT.
   (A)   An appeal from a final order of the Code Enforcement Board following a
hearing conducted pursuant to §
32.58(E) may be made to the Campbell District Court within 30 days of the date
the order is issued. The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint
and a copy of the final order in the same manner as any civil action under the
Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   If no appeal from a final order of the Code Enforcement Board is filed
within the time period set in division (A), the Code Enforcement Board’s order
shall be deemed final for all purposes.
(Ord. 16-10, passed 10-19-2016)
§ 32.61 LIEN; FINES, CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   The city shall possess a lien on property owned by the person found by
a nonappealable final order as defined by §
32.50(D), or by a final judgment of the court, to have committed a violation of
a city ordinance. The lien shall be for all civil fines assessed for the
violation and for all charges and fees incurred by the city in connection with
the enforcement of the ordinance, including abatement costs. An affidavit of
the Code Enforcement Officer shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
amount of the lien and regularity of the proceedings pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to
65.8839.
   (B)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The lien
shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear
interest until paid. The lien shall continue for ten years following the date
of the nonappealable final order or final court judgment.
   (C)   Subject to §§
32.62 and
32.63, the lien shall take precedence over all other liens, except state,
county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial
proceedings, including a foreclosure action.
   (D)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (A), the person found
to have committed the violation shall be personally responsible for the amount
of all civil fines assessed for the violation and for all charges, fees and
abatement costs incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of the
chapter. The city may bring a civil action against the person and shall have
the same remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt.
(Ord. 16-10, passed 10-19-2016)
§ 32.62 LIENHOLDER NOTIFICATION SYSTEM.
   The city shall obtain and maintain priority over previously filed liens, as
provided in §
32.61, in accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   Individuals and entities, including but not limited to lienholders,
may register with the city to receive electronic notification of final orders
entered pursuant to §§
32.50 through
32.64.
   (B)   In order to receive the notification, the registrant shall submit the
following information to the City Clerk:
      (1)   Name;
      (2)   Mailing address;
      (3)   Phone number; and
      (4)   Electronic mailing address.
   (C)   A registrant may use the form provided on the city website to submit
the information required by division (B). It shall be the responsibility of the
registrant to maintain and update the required contact information with the
city. The city shall inform a registrant of any evidence received that the
electronic mailing address is invalid or not functional so that the registrant
may provide an updated electronic mailing address.
   (D)   No less than once a month, but no more frequently than once per week,
the city shall send electronic mail notification of all final orders entered
pursuant to §§
32.50 through
32.64 since the last date of notification to each party registered pursuant to
this section. The notification shall provide an electronic link to the city
code enforcement database located on the city website. The database shall
include the following information regarding each final order:
      (1)   The name of the person charged with a violation;
      (2)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (3)   The last known mailing address for the owner of the premises where
the violation occurred;
      (4)   A specific description of the citation leading to the final order,
including the citation detail set forth in KRS 65.8825(4)(a) to (h), which may
be satisfied by including a copy of the full citation;
      (5)   The findings of the final order, including the penalty or penalties
imposed by the final order, which may be satisfied by providing a copy of the
full final order; and
      (6)   The status of the final order in regards to its ability to be
appealed pursuant to KRS 65.8831.
   (E)   If an appeal is filed on a final order pursuant to this chapter, the
city shall send electronic mail notification to all registrants.
   (F)   Within ten days of the issuance of a final order pursuant to this
chapter, the city shall update its code enforcement database on the city
website to reflect the issued final order.
   (G)   The city shall maintain the records created under this section for ten
years following their issuance.
(Ord. 16-10, passed 10-19-2016)
§ 32.63 LIENS.
   (A)   A lienholder of record who has registered pursuant to §
32.62(B) may, within 45 days from the date of issuance of notification under §
32.62(D):
      (1)   Correct the violation, if it has not already been abated; or
      (2)   Pay all civil fines assessed for the violation, and all charges and
fees incurred by the city in connection with enforcement of this chapter,
including abatement costs.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action if necessary under §
32.64 of this subchapter.
   (C)   The lien provided by §
32.61 shall not take precedence over previously recorded liens if:
      (1)   The city failed to comply with the requirements of §
32.62 for notification of the final order; or
      (2)   A prior lienholder complied with division (A).
   (D)   A lien that does not take precedence over previously recorded liens
under division (C) shall, if the final order remains partially unsatisfied,
continue to take precedence over all other subsequent liens except liens for
state, county, school board and city taxes.
   (E)   The city may record a lien before the 45 day period established in
division (A) expires. If the lien is fully satisfied prior to the expiration of
the 45 day period, the city shall release the lien in the County Clerk’s office
where the lien is recorded within 15 days of satisfaction.
   (F)   Failure of the city to comply with §
32.62 or this section, or failure of a lien to take precedence over previously
filed liens as provided in division (C) of this section, shall not limit or
restrict any other remedies the city has against the property of the violator.
(Ord. 16-10, passed 10-19-2016)
§ 32.64 IMMEDIATE ACTION.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is reason to believe
that the violation presents a serious threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of the violation
will be irreparable or irreversible.
(Ord. 16-10, passed 10-19-2016)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Section
32.47.
      (1)   Any tax imposed by §
32.47 which remains unpaid after it becomes due as set forth shall have added
to it a penalty of 10%, together with interest at the rate of 1/2% for each
month or fraction thereof of delinquency, until paid.
      (2)   Any person, firm, or corporation who knowingly files a false or
fraudulent return required by §
32.47 shall be fined in an amount of not more than $100, imprisoned not more
than 30 days, or both fined and imprisoned.
   (C)   As it applies to §
32.50 et seq., unless otherwise specified, violations of ordinances that are
enforced by the City Code Enforcement Board shall be subject to a penalty of
$50 per day per violation, up to a maximum of $10,000 per citation.
(1993 Code, § 22.99) (Am. Ord. 16-10, passed 10-19-2016)
CHAPTER 33: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
33.001   Title
   
33.002   Findings
   
33.003   Purpose and authority
   
33.004   Definitions
   
33.005   Effective date
Standards of Conduct
   
33.020   Conflicts of interest; generally
   
33.021   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
33.022   Receipt of gifts
   
33.023   Use of city property, equipment, and personnel
   
33.024   Representation of interests before city government
   
33.025   Misuse of confidential information
   
33.026   Post-employment restriction
   
33.027   Honoria
Workplace Violence and Workplace Harassment
   
33.030   Intent
   
33.031   Workplace violence defined
   
33.032   Workplace bullying defined
   
33.033   Professionalism
   
33.034   Violations/complaint procedure
Financial Disclosure
   
33.040   Who must file
   
33.041   When to file statements; amended statements
   
33.042   Form of the statement of financial interests
   
33.043   Control and maintenance of the statements of financial interests
   
33.044   Contents of the financial interests statement
   
33.045   Noncompliance with filing requirement
Nepotism
   
33.060   Nepotism prohibited
Enforcement
   
33.075   Board of Ethics created
   
33.076   Alternate members
   
33.077   Facilities and staff
   
33.078   Powers and duties of the Board of Ethics
   
33.079   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
33.080   Notice of hearings
   
33.081   Hearing procedure
   
33.082   Appeals
   
33.083   Limitation of actions
   
33.084   Advisory opinions
   
33.085   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
 
   
33.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Southgate Code
of Ethics.”
(Ord. 94-17, passed 11-2-1994)
§ 33.002 FINDINGS.
   The legislative body of the city finds and declares that:
   (A)   Public office and employment with the city are public trusts;
   (B)   The vitality and stability of the government of this city depends upon
the public’s confidence in the integrity of its elected and appointed officers
and employees. Whenever the public perceives a conflict between the private
interests and public duties of a city officer or employee, that confidence is
imperiled; and
   (C)   The government of this city has a duty to provide its citizens with
standards by which they may determine whether public duties are being
faithfully performed, and to make its officers and employees aware of the
standards which the citizenry rightfully expects them to comply with while
conducting their public duties.
(Ord. 94-17, passed 11-2-1994)
§ 33.003 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of the city shall be clearly established, uniform in their
application, and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees of the
city with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest
which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS 65.003, as enacted by the 1994 State General Assembly.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.003.
(Ord. 94-17, passed 11-2-1994)
§ 33.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF ETHICS. The City of Southgate Board of Ethics, which is created and
vested by this chapter with the responsibility of enforcing the requirements of
the city’s code of ethics.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation, or any legal entity through which business is conducted for
profit.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city office.
An individual is a CANDIDATE when the individual files a notification and
declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State, is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration of
intent to be a write-in candidate with the County Clerk or Secretary of State.
   CITY. The City of Southgate, Kentucky.
   CITY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, nonstock corporation, or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by this city.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city. The term EMPLOYEE
shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of their employees.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent, or grandchild.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in the
officer’s or employee’s household, or a person claimed by the officer or
employee, or the officer’s or employee’s spouse, as a dependent for tax
purposes.
   OFFICER. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   A legislative body member;
      (3)   The City Clerk;
      (4)   Any person who occupies a nonelected office created under KRS
83A.080; or
      (5)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency by the city.
(Ord. 94-17, passed 11-2-1994)
§ 33.005 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take full force and effect immediately upon publication
as required by KRS 83A.060.
(Ord. 94-17, passed 11-2-1994)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 33.020 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST; GENERALLY.
   (A)   Generally. Every officer and employee of the city and every city
agency shall comply with the following standards of conduct.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of any
officer or employee, shall have an interest in a business, or engage in any
business, transaction, or activity, which is in substantial conflict with the
proper discharge of the officer’s or employee’s public duties.
      (2)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use
his or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or
advantages for himself or herself or others.
      (3)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or refrain from
taking any discretionary action, agree to take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action, or induce or attempt to induce any other officer or
employee to take or refrain from taking any discretionary action on any matter
before the city in order to obtain a financial benefit for any of the
following:
         (a)   The officer or employee;
         (b)   A family member;
         (c)   An outside employer;
         (d)   Any business in which the officer or employee, or any family
member, has a financial interest; and/or
         (e)   Any business with which the officer or employee, or any family
member, is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or
professional relationship.
      (4)   No officers or employee shall be deemed in violation of any
provision in this section if, by reason of the officer’s or employees’s
participation, vote, decision, action, or inaction, no financial benefit
accrues to the officer or employee, a family member, an outside employer, or a
business as defined in divisions (B)(3)(d) and (B)(3)(e) above, as a member of
any business, occupation, profession, or other group, to any greater extent
than any gain could reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member of the
business, occupation, profession, or other group.
      (5)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected
by his or her participation, vote, decision, or other action taken within the
scope of his or her public duties shall disclose the precise nature and value
of the interest, in writing, to the governing body of the city or city agency
served by the officer or employee, and the disclosure shall be entered on the
official record of the proceedings of the governing body. The officer or
employee shall refrain from taking any action with respect to the matter that
is the subject of the disclosure.
(Ord. 94-17, passed 11-2-1994) Penalty, see §
32.999
§ 33.021 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Generally. No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall
directly or through others undertake, execute, hold, or enjoy, in whole or in
part, any contract made, entered into, awarded, or granted by the city or a
city agency, except as follows.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   The prohibition in division (A) above shall not apply to contracts
entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for city office,
before an appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency office, or
before an employee was hired by the city or a city agency. However, if any
contract entered into by a city or city agency officer or employee before he or
she became a candidate, was appointed to office, or was hired as an employee,
is renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes the appointed office,
or is hired as an employee, then the prohibition in division (A) above shall
apply to the renewal of the contract.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (A) above shall not apply if the
contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the
officer or employee is authorized to participate in establishing the contract
specifications, awarding the contract, or managing contract performance after
the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any of the authorities
set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or employee shall have no
interest in the contract, unless the requirements set forth in division (B)(3)
below are satisfied.
      (3)   The prohibition in division (A) above shall not apply in any case
where the following requirements are satisfied.
         (a)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer’s or employee’s interest in the contract are publicly disclosed
at a meeting of the governing body of the city or city agency.
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
         (c)   A finding is made by the governing body of the city or city
agency that the contract with the officer or employee is in the best interests
of the public and the city or city agency because of price, limited supply, or
other specific reasons.
         (d)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
(Ord. 94-17, passed 11-2-1994) Penalty, see §
32.999
§ 33.022 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly, or
indirectly through any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift
having a fair market value of more than $100 from a single source per year,
whether in the form of money, service, loan, travel, entertainment,
hospitality, thing, promise, or any other form, under circumstances in which it
could reasonably be inferred that the gift was intended to influence, or could
reasonably be expected to influence, the officer or employee in the performance
of his or her public duties.
(Ord. 94-17, passed 11-2-1994) Penalty, see §
32.999
§ 33.023 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT, AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any city
time, funds, personnel, equipment, or other personal or real property for the
private use of any person, unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy; and/or
   (B)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that the use is available to the general public.
(Ord. 94-17, passed 11-2-1994) Penalty, see §
32.999
§ 33.024 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall represent
any person or business, other than the city, in connection with any cause,
proceeding, application, or other matter pending before the city or any city
agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an employee from representing
another employee or employees where the representation is within the context of
official labor union or similar representational responsibilities.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matters concerning his or her own interests.
   (D)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward
or other thing of value is promised to, given to, or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(Ord. 94-17, passed 11-2-1994) Penalty, see §
32.999
§ 33.025 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall intentionally
use or disclose information acquired in the course of his or her official
duties if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further his or her
personal financial interest or that of another person or business. Information
shall be deemed confidential if it is not subject to disclosure pursuant to the
State Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 through 61.884, at the time of its use or
disclosure.
(Ord. 94-17, passed 11-2-1994) Penalty, see §
32.999
§ 33.026 POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall appear or
practice before the city or any city agency with respect to any matter on which
the officer or employee personally worked while in the service of the city or
city agency for a period of one year after the termination of the officer’s or
employee’s service with the city or city agency.
(Ord. 94-17, passed 11-2-1994) Penalty, see §
32.999
§ 33.027 HONORARIA.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall accept any
compensation, honorarium, or gift with a fair market value greater than $100 in
consideration of an appearance, speech, or article unless the appearance,
speech, or article is both related to the officer’s or employee’s activities
outside of municipal service and is unrelated to the officer’s or employee’s
service with the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency from receiving and retaining from the city or on behalf
of the city actual and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the
officer or employee in connection with an appearance, speech, or article,
provided that the officer or employee can show by clear and convincing evidence
that the expenses were incurred or received on behalf of the city or city
agency and primarily for the benefit of the city or city agency and not
primarily for the benefit of the officer or employee or any other person.
(Ord. 94-17, passed 11-2-1994) Penalty, see §
32.999
WORKPLACE VIOLENCE AND WORKPLACE HARASSMENT
§ 33.030 INTENT.
   The intent of this subchapter is to create a workplace environment that is
free from workplace bullying and does not tolerate violence, incivility, or
bullying of employees by co-workers, supervisors, elected officials, or
appointed officials. For the purpose of this subchapter the terms WORKPLACE or
WORKSITE mean all public and private venues where employees are conducting
duties on behalf of the city, and includes city offices, city streets, public
and private meetings, and city-owned buildings. In some instances, the worksite
may be negatively impacted if an employee is bullied or harassed by a co-
worker, supervisor, elected official or appointed official, outside of work
hours and in non-public or semi-public venues, if the effect of that conduct
causes disruption to the employee's personal life and/or normal, day-to-day
work activities.
(Ord. 17-05, passed 7-5-2017)
§ 33.031 WORKPLACE VIOLENCE DEFINED.
   (A)   Definition. WORKPLACE VIOLENCE is any act or threat of physical
violence, harassment, intimidation, or other threatening, disruptive behavior
that occurs at a work site. It ranges from threats and verbal abuse to physical
assaults and even homicide.
   (B)   Violent acts or threats made by an employee, elected official,
appointed official, or member of the public against another person will be
acted upon immediately and with the full resources of the city. This includes
any violence of threat made on city property, at city worksites or events
(including Council Meetings) or under circumstances that may negatively affect
the city's ability to conduct business.
   (C)   Prohibited conduct includes but is not limited to:
      (1)   Causing physical injury to another person;
      (2)   Making threatening remarks;
      (3)   Name-calling, verbal taunts, heckling, hissing, booing, mocking,
and similar activities;
      (4)   Aggressive, hostile or bullying behavior that creates a reasonable
fear of injury to another person or unreasonably subjects another individual to
emotional distress;
      (5)   Intentionally damaging employer property or the property of another
employee;
      (6)   Possession of a weapon while on city property or while on city
business;
      (7)   Committing acts motivated by, or related to, political retaliation
or workplace harassment; and
      (8)   Aggressive, bullying or stalking behavior either at a worksite, or
at other venues, which creates a reasonable fear of job-related retaliation.
   (D)   Any potentially dangerous situations must be reported immediately. The
city will actively intervene in any hostile or violent situation.
   (E)   The need for mutual respect and the opportunity to work together in a
peaceful, mutually rewarding and efficient work environment provides the
foundations upon which these rules are established.
(Ord. 17-05, passed 7-5-2017)
§ 33.032 WORKPLACE BULLYING DEFINED.
   (A)   Definition. WORKPLACE BULLYING is intentional behavior by any
employee, supervisor, elected official, or appointed official aimed at an
individual employee or group of employees that a reasonable person would find
hostile, intimidating, offensive or intended to create an abusive work
environment.
   (B)   Disciplinary action undertaken by the Mayor or the Mayor's subordinate
officer or designee pursuant to KRS 83A.130 generally does not fall within the
definition of workplace bullying. Likewise, City Council investigations
conducted pursuant to KRS 83A.130(13) will not fall under the definition of
WORKPLACE BULLYING.
   (C)   Examples of workplace bullying. Examples of workplace bullying
include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following:
      (1)   Verbal abuse such as the use of derogatory remarks, insults, name-
calling, and epithets;
      (2)   Verbal, nonverbal or physical conduct of a threatening,
intimidating, or humiliating nature;
      (3)   Stalking employees inside or outside of the workplace, or causing
them to be stalked or harassed or intimidated by others;
      (4)   Disruption of employees' personal lives through: stalking or
spreading gossip or rumors about employees; causing others to gossip or spread
rumors about employees; or through social media posts; or
      (5)   Taunting or goading employees to the point that they engage in
misconduct.
   (D)   Unlike workplace violence, workplace bullying is not limited to the
worksite or workplace, and may exist in any public or private venue, worksite
or workplace. Workplace bullying is prohibited conduct which is aimed at the
individual employee, regardless of venue, by a co-worker, supervisor, elected
official, or appointed official, that under any objective review a reasonable
person, confronted with the same or similar circumstances, would find to be
hostile, intimidating, offensive, or intended to create an abusive work
environment.
(Ord. 17-05, passed 7-5-2017)
§ 33.033 PROFESSIONALISM.
   In addition to prevention of workplace violence and workplace bullying, the
city is dedicated to promoting professionalism, efficiency, productivity, and
cooperation among its employees, elected officials, appointed officials, and
members of the public. Therefore, the city expects the various stakeholders to
be sensitive to how we conduct ourselves in and about city workplaces, city
events, and at public meetings. Although the city cannot possibly provide an
exhaustive list of impermissible behavior, the following provides some examples
for guidance:
   (A)   Insubordination or failure to cooperate with fellow employees and/or
supervisors, or directives of the City Council or Mayor;
   (B)   Usurpation of or interference with executive functions of city
government by individual city councilmembers; or the usurpation of or
interference with legislative functions of city government by the Mayor.
   (C)   Horseplay, gambling or instigating or participating in a physical
altercation;
   (D)   Falsifying/making a material omissions on, or altering the city's
records, time cards, report forms, application materials, etc.;
   (E)   Intolerant, abusive, demeaning, prejudicial comments (including
yelling) and/or actions towards employees, members of the public, elected or
appointed officials or any other person;
   (F)   Using, processing or being under the influence of alcohol or unlawful
drugs while on duty, while on the city's property, or city events;
   (G)   Bringing unauthorized firearms, explosives or other dangerous
materials on the city's property without explicit prior authorization by the
city;
   (H)   Divulging confidential information to others without express
authorization by the city; or coercing others to disclose confidential
information, which is confidential to the city or to or about an individual
employee;
   (I)   Immoral conduct; or incivility, including name-calling, verbal taunts,
heckling, hissing, booing, mocking, and similar activities;
   (J)   Engaging in unlawful harassment of another person as defined by KRS
525.00; and
   (K)   Using a position of authority to unreasonably coerce other city
officials to take enforcement or disciplinary action against an employee. This
does not prohibit lawful exercise of legitimate supervisory authority, and
discretionary decision-making authority vested in the Mayor and executive
branch supervisory and/or the enforcement authority and discretion vested in
appointed city officers, or the legitimate exercise of legislative authority of
the City Council.
(Ord. 17-05, passed 7-5-2017)
§ 33.034 VIOLATIONS/COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Public meetings. Any person who conducts his/herself in such a manner
as to violate this subchapter at a public meeting shall be warned once to cease
and desist from such actions. If the person refuses or fails to stop such
activities, he/she shall be removed from the meeting by the police and warned
that future similar actions shall result in the immediate ejection from the
meeting and/or may be banned from future meetings on a permanent or temporary
basis in accordance with Kentucky law.
   (B)   Employee at workplace. Any employee who believes he or she has been
subjected to offensive; and harassing behavior by a co-worker, member of the
public, elected official, supervisor or vendor has an obligation to directly
inform the offending person that the conduct is offensive and must stop.
   (C)   If this direct communication with the offending person is not
successful, the employee should promptly report the incident(s) and the names
of the individuals involved to his or her supervisor, or in the case of a
department head to the Mayor, who shall cause a preliminary investigation of
all such claims and take appropriate corrective action, if any.
   (D)   Confidentially to the extent possible will be maintained and no
reprisals or retaliation will result from the good faith reporting of
intolerant behavior. Reports made in bad faith may be subject to disciplinary
action.
   (E)   In determining if the alleged conduct constitutes workplace violence
or workplace bullying, the totality of the circumstances, the nature of the
conduct, the frequency and scope of the conduct, and the context in which the
alleged conduct occurred will be investigated by the Mayor or the Mayor's
designee.
   (F)   Any employee found to have engaged in such impermissible behavior may
in accordance with the city's personnel policies be subject to disciplinary
action, including, but not limited to, warning, suspension or termination
subject to applicable procedure requirements.
   (G)   Any appointed or elected official found to have engaged in such
impermissible conduct may be subject to sanction by the City Council up to and
including a public reprimand; referral by the Mayor to the Northern Kentucky
Ethics Enforcement Committee for investigation and determination of additional
sanctions; and/or referral by the Mayor to the County Attorney for possible
prosecution under KRS 522.020.
(Ord. 17-05, passed 7-5-2017)
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 33.040 WHO MUST FILE.
   The following classes of officers and employees of the city and city
agencies shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the Board
of Ethics:
   (A)   Elected city officials;
   (B)   Candidates for elected city office;
   (C)   Members of the City Planning and Zoning Commission and the Board of
Adjustment; and
   (D)   Members of the Board of Ethics created by this chapter.
(Ord. 94-17, passed 11-2-1994)
§ 33.041 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this
subchapter shall be filed with the Board of Ethics, or the administrative
official designated as the custodian of its records by the Board of Ethics, no
later than 4:00 p.m. 4-15-1996. All subsequent statements of financial interest
shall be filed no later than 4:00 p.m. on April 30 each year, provided that:
      (1)   An officer or employee newly-appointed to fill an office or
position of employment with the city or a city agency shall file his or her
initial statement no later than 30 days after the date of the appointment; and
      (2)   The candidate for city office shall file his or her initial
statement no later than 30 days after the filing deadline for the elected city
office for which that person became a candidate.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board, the officer or
employee shall, no later than 30 days after becoming aware of the material
change, file an amended statement with the Board.
(Ord. 94-17, passed 11-2-1994; Ord. 96-05, passed 9-18-1996; Ord. 97-01, passed
3-19-1997; Ord. 97-06, passed 5-21-1997)
§ 33.042 FORM OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form prescribed by
the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated by the Board of
Ethics. The Board, or the designated administrative official, shall deliver a
copy of the form to each officer and employee required to file the statement,
by first-class mail or hand delivery, no later than January 31 of each year.
The failure of the Board, or the designated administrative official, to deliver
a copy of the form to any officer or employee shall not relieve the officer or
employee of the obligation to file the statement.
(Ord. 94-17, passed 11-2-1994)
§ 33.043 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF THE STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics shall be the “official custodian” of the
statements of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance
of the statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests
shall be maintained by the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated by the Board of Ethics as the “custodian,” as public documents,
available for public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the Board, or
the designated administrative official, for a period of five years after
filing, provided that:
      (1)   Upon the expiration of three years after a person ceases to be an
officer or employee of the city or a city agency, the Board shall cause to be
destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those statements
filed by the person; and
      (2)   Upon the expiration of three years after any election at which a
candidate for elected city office was not elected or nominated, the Board shall
cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those
statements filed by the person.
(Ord. 94-17, passed 11-2-1994)
§ 33.044 CONTENTS OF THE FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number, and
home address of the filer;
      (2)   The title of the filer’s office, office sought, or position of
employment;
      (3)   The occupation of the filer and the filer’s spouse;
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer and
the filer’s immediate family members exceeding $5,000 during the preceding
calendar year, and the nature of the income (e.g., salary, commission,
dividends, retirement fund distribution, and the like);
      (5)   The name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had at any time
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 at fair market value
or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (6)   The name and address of any business located outside of the state,
if the business has engaged in any business transactions with the city during
the past three years, or which is anticipated to engage in any business
transactions with the city, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s
immediate family had at any time during the preceding calendar year an interest
of $10,000 at fair market value or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (7)   A designation as commercial, residential, or rural, and the
location of all real property within the city other than the filer’s primary
residence, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 or more;
      (8)   Each source by name and address of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of $100 or more from any single source, excluding
gifts received from family members, received by the filer or any member of the
filer’s immediate family during the preceding calendar year; and
      (9)   The name and address of any creditor owed more than $10,000, except
debts arising from the purchase of a primary residence or the purchase of
consumer goods which are bought or used primarily for person, family, or
household purposes.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of individual
clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income.
(Ord. 94-17, passed 11-2-1994)
§ 33.045 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT.
   The Board of Ethics, or the designated administrative official, shall notify
by certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial
interests who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete
statement, or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed by the
Board. The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall
establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied, and
shall advise the person of the penalties for a violation.
(Ord. 94-17, passed 11-2-1994) Penalty, see § 32.999
NEPOTISM
§ 33.060 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall advocate,
recommend, or cause the employment, appointment, promotion, transfer, or
advancement of a family member to an office or authorized permanent full-time
position with the city or a city agency.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall supervise or
manage the work of a family member in an authorized permanent full-time
position.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall participate in any action relating to the
employment or discipline of a family member, except that this prohibition shall
not prevent an elected or appointed official from voting on or participating in
the development of a budget which includes compensation for a family member,
provided that the family member is included only as a member of a class of
persons or a group, and the family member benefits to no greater extent than
any other similarly situated member of the class or group.
   (D)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to 11-
2-1994.
(Ord. 94-17, passed 11-2-1994) Penalty, see § 32.999
ENFORCEMENT
§ 33.075 BOARD OF ETHICS CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board of Ethics which shall have the
authorities, duties, and responsibilities as set forth in this chapter to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics shall consist of three members who shall be
appointed by the executive authority of the city, subject to the approval of
the legislative body (if different from the executive authority). The initial
members of the Board of Ethics shall be appointed within 60 days of the
effective date of this chapter. No member of the Board of Ethics shall hold any
elected or appointed office, whether paid or unpaid, or any position of
employment with the city or any city agency. The members shall serve for a term
of three years; except that, with respect to the members initially appointed,
one member shall be appointed for a term of one year, one member shall be
appointed for a term of two years, and one member shall be appointed for a term
of three years. Thereafter, all appointments shall be for a term of three
years. Each member of the Board of Ethics shall have been a resident of the
city for at least one year prior to the date of the appointment and shall
reside in the city throughout the term in office. The members of the Board of
Ethics shall be chosen by virtue of their known and consistent reputation for
integrity and their knowledge of local government affairs. The members may be
reappointed for any number of consecutive terms.
   (C)   A member of the Board of Ethics may be removed by the executive
authority, subject to the approval of the legislative body (if different from
the executive authority), for misconduct, inability, or willful neglect of
duties. Before any member of the Board of Ethics is removed from office under
this section, the member shall be afforded the opportunity for a hearing before
the executive authority and the legislative body.
   (D)   Vacancies on the Board of Ethics shall be filled within 60 days by the
executive authority, subject to the approval of the legislative body. If a
vacancy is not filled by the executive authority within 60 days, the remaining
members of the Board of Ethics shall fill the vacancy. All vacancies shall be
filled for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (E)   Members of the Board of Ethics shall serve without compensation,
unless otherwise approved by the legislative body, but shall be reimbursed for
all necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their
duties.
   (F)   The Board of Ethics shall, upon the initial appointment of its
members, and annually thereafter, elect a Chairperson from among the
membership. The Chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting
member of the Board.
   (G)   Meetings of the Board of Ethics shall be held, as necessary, upon the
call of the Chairperson or at the written request of a majority of the members.
   (H)   The presence of all three members is required to constitute a quorum
and the affirmative vote of two or more members shall be necessary for any
official action to be taken. Any member of the Board of Ethics who has a
conflict of interest with respect to any matter to be considered by the Board
shall disclose the nature of the conflict, shall disqualify himself or herself
from voting on the matter, and shall not be counted for purposes of
establishing a quorum.
   (I)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board of Ethics and
the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in
the minutes.
(Ord. 94-17, passed 11-2-1994)
§ 33.076 ALTERNATE MEMBERS.
   The executive authority of the city, with the approval of the legislative
body, may appoint two alternate members of the Board of Ethics who may be
called upon to serve when any regular member of the Board is unable to
discharge his or her duties. An alternate member shall be appointed for a term
of one year. Alternate members shall meet all qualifications and be subject to
all of the requirements of this chapter that apply to regular members.
(Ord. 94-17, passed 11-2-1994)
§ 33.077 FACILITIES AND STAFF.
   Within the limits of the funds appropriated by the legislative body in the
annual budget, the city shall provide the Board of Ethics, either directly or
by contract or agreement, with the facilities, materials, supplies, and staff
needed for the conduct of its business.
(Ord. 94-17, passed 11-2-1994)
§ 33.078 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF ETHICS.
   (A)   Generally. The Board of Ethics shall have the following powers and
duties.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   To initiate on its own motion, receive and investigate complaints,
hold hearings, and make findings of fact and determinations with regard to
alleged violations of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   To issue orders in connection with its investigations and hearings
requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to the proceedings and to order testimony to be
taken by deposition before any individual designated by the Board who has the
power to administer oaths;
      (3)   To administer oaths and to issue orders requiring the attendance
and testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating
to an investigation or hearing being conducted by the Board;
      (4)   To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to
the executive authority of the city, the city legislative body, the governing
body of any city agency, the County Attorney, or other appropriate person or
body, as necessary;
      (5)   To render advisory opinions to city and city agency officers and
employees regarding whether a given set of facts and circumstances would
constitute a violation of any provision of this chapter;
      (6)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all
officers and employees of the city and city agencies who are subject to its
terms by issuing appropriate orders and imposing penalties authorized by this
chapter;
      (7)   To control and maintain all statements of financial interests that
are required to be filed by this chapter and to ensure that the statements are
available for public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter and the State Open Records Act;
      (8)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business that may be required by the executive authority or legislative body of
the city; and
      (9)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter, provided that the
rules, regulations, and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law.
(Ord. 94-17, passed 11-2-1994)
§ 33.079 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Board of Ethics, or the administrative
official designated by the Board of Ethics. All complaints shall be in writing,
signed by the complainant, and shall meet any other requirements established by
the Board of Ethics. The Board of Ethics shall acknowledge receipt of a
complaint to the complainant within ten working days from the date of receipt.
The Board shall forward within ten working days, to each officer or employee of
the city or city agency who is the subject of the complaint, a copy of the
complaint and a general statement of the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Within 30 days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the Board of
Ethics shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations contained
in the complaint. The Board shall afford a person who is the subject of the
complaint an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the complaint. The
person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to appear and be
heard under oath, and to offer evidence in response to the allegations.
   (C)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Board of Ethics shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Board, except:
      (1)   The Board may turn over to the State Attorney or County Attorney
evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings; and
      (2)   If the complainant or alleged violator publicly disclose the
existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Board may publicly confirm the
existence of the inquiry, and, at its discretion, make public any documents
which were issued to either party.
   (D)   The Board shall make a determination based on its preliminary inquiry
whether the complaint is within its jurisdiction and, if so, whether it alleges
a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation of
this chapter. If the Board concludes that the complaint is outside of its
jurisdiction, frivolous, or without factual basis, the Board shall immediately
terminate the inquiry, reduce the conclusion to writing, and transmit a copy of
its decision to the complainant and to all officers or employees against whom
the complaint was filed.
   (E)   If the Board of Ethics concludes, based upon its preliminary inquiry,
that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations
sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Board shall notify the officer or employee who is the subject of the complaint
and may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances such as lack of significant
economic advantage or gain by the officer or employee, lack of economic loss to
the city and its taxpayers, or lack of significant impact on public confidence
in city government, issue in writing a confidential reprimand to the officer or
employee concerning the alleged violation and provide a copy of the
confidential reprimand to the executive authority and governing body of the
city or city agency; and/or
      (2)   Initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation.
   (F)   Any person who knowingly files with the Board a false complaint
alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter by an officer or employee
of the city or any city agency shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 94-17, passed 11-2-1994) Penalty, see § 32.999
§ 33.080 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   If the Board of Ethics determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, the Board shall issue an order setting
the matter for a hearing within 30 days of the date the order is issued, unless
the alleged violator petitions for and the Board consents to a later date. The
order setting the matter for hearing, along with a copy of any pertinent
regulations of the Board relating to the hearing, shall be sent to the alleged
violator within 24 hours of the time the order setting a hearing is issued.
(Ord. 94-17, passed 11-2-1994)
§ 33.081 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The State Rules of Civil Procedure and the State Rules of Evidence
shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Board of Ethics; however, the
hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in accordance
with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Board so as to afford
all parties the full range of due process rights required by the nature of the
proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator, or his
or her representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Board in connection with the
matter to be heard. The Board shall inform the alleged violator, or his or her
representative, of any exculpatory evidence in its possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a Board hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by the presiding officer.
      (1)   All parties shall have the right to call and examine witnesses, to
introduce exhibits, to cross-examine witnesses, to submit evidence, and to be
represented by counsel.
      (2)   All witnesses shall have the right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Board, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (E)   All hearings of the Board of Ethics shall be public, unless the
members vote to go into executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810.
   (F)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Ethics shall, as
soon as practicable, begin deliberations in executive session for the purpose
of reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether a
violation of this chapter has been proven. Within 30 days after completion of
the hearing, the Board shall issue a written report of its findings and
conclusions.
   (G)   If the Board concludes in its report that no violation of this chapter
has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this determination to
the officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint and to the party
who filed the complaint.
   (H)   If the Board concludes in its report that in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and convincing proof of a
violation of this chapter, the Board may:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation;
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the executive authority and governing body
of the city or city agency with which the violator serves;
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the executive authority and the governing
body that the violator be sanctioned as recommended by the Board, which may
include a recommendation for discipline or dismissal, or removal from office;
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $1,000; and/or
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this chapter or state laws
to the County Attorney or State Attorney of the jurisdiction for prosecution.
(Ord. 94-17, passed 11-2-1994)
§ 33.082 APPEALS.
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the Board of Ethics may appeal the finding to the County Circuit
Court within 30 days after the date of the final action by the Board of Ethics
by filing a petition with the Court against the Board. The Board shall transmit
to the Clerk of the Court all evidence considered by the Board at the public
hearing.
(Ord. 94-17, passed 11-2-1994)
§ 33.083 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one year after
the violation is discovered.
(Ord. 94-17, passed 11-2-1994)
§ 33.084 ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics may render advisory opinions concerning matters
under its jurisdiction, based upon real or hypothetical facts and
circumstances, upon its own initiative, or when requested by any officer or
employee of the city or a city agency who is covered by this chapter.
   (B)   An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions. The request for an advisory opinion
shall remain confidential unless confidentiality is waived, in writing, by the
requestor.
   (C)   The Board may adopt regulations, consistent with the State Open
Records Law, to establish criteria under which it will issue confidential
advisory opinions. All other advisory opinions shall be public documents,
except that before an advisory opinion is made public, it shall be modified so
that the identity of any person associated with the opinion shall not be
revealed.
   (D)   The confidentiality of an advisory opinion may be waived either:
      (1)   In writing by the person who requested the opinion; or
      (2)   By majority vote of the members of the Board, if a person makes or
purports to make public the substance or any portion of an advisory opinion
requested by or on behalf of the person. The Board may vote to make public the
advisory opinion request and related materials.
   (E)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be binding on the
Board in any subsequent proceeding concerning the facts and circumstances of
the particular case if no intervening facts or circumstances arise which would
change the opinion of the Board if they had existed at the time the opinion was
rendered. However, if any fact determined by the Board to be material was
omitted or misstated in the request for an opinion, the Board shall not be
bound by the opinion.
   (F)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be admissible in
the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil proceeding for violations of
this chapter for actions taken in reliance on that opinion.
(Ord. 94-17, passed 11-2-1994)
§ 33.085 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall subject to
reprisal, or directly or indirectly use, or threaten to use, any official
authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage,
restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce, or discriminate against any
person who in good faith reports, discloses, divulges, or otherwise brings to
the attention of the Board of Ethics or any other agency or official of the
city or the state any facts or information relative to an actual or suspected
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting disciplinary or
punitive action if an officer or employee of the city or any city agency
discloses information which he or she knows:
      (1)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity;
      (2)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of the
State Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 through 61.884; and/or
      (3)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Ord. 94-17, passed 11-2-1994) Penalty, see § 32.999
§ 33.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this chapter,
any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by the
Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to a civil fine imposed by the
Board of Ethics not to exceed $1,000, which may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails to pay the penalty
within a prescribed period of time.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by
the Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall
forfeit to the city or the city agency an amount equal to the economic benefit
or gain which the officer or employee is determined by the Board to have
realized as a result of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt, if the offender
fails to pay the amount of the forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board of Ethics that an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency is guilty of a violation of this
chapter shall be sufficient cause for removal, suspension, demotion, or other
disciplinary action by the executive authority of the city or city agency, or
by any other officer or agency having the power of removal or discipline. Any
action to remove or discipline any officer or employee for a violation of this
chapter shall be taken in accordance with all applicable ordinances and
regulations of the city and all applicable laws of the state.
   (D)   Any violation of §
33.021 shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, the court
may void any contract entered into in violation of §
33.021. Additionally, a violation of this section shall be grounds for removal
from office or employment with the city in accordance with any applicable
provisions of state law and ordinances, rules, and regulations of the city.
   (E)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who fails or
refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice under §
32.045 within the time period established in the notice shall be guilty of a
civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed by the Board in an
amount not to exceed $25 per day, up to a maximum total civil fine of $500. Any
civil fine imposed by the Board under this section may be recovered by the city
in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails or refuses to pay
the penalty within a prescribed period of time. Any person who intentionally
files a statement of financial interests which he or she knows to contain false
information or intentionally omits required information shall be guilty of a
Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 94-17, passed 11-2-1994)
CHAPTER 34: CITY POLICIES
Section
   
34.01   911 emergency telephone service
   
34.02   Collection of occupational license taxes
   
34.03   Reasonable assistance to handicapped individuals
   
34.04   Grievance procedure set forth by the Americans with Disabilities Act;
appeal process
Cross-reference:
   Occupational License Taxes, see
Ch. 110
§ 34.01 911 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SERVICE.
   The city hereby authorizes the establishment of 911 emergency telephone
service within its boundaries with a maximum fee of $3.30 per access line per
month not to exceed a total cost of 25 access lines per month on each monthly
telephone bill.
(1993 Code, § 55.01) (Ord. 00-13, passed 1-3-2001; Ord. 05-14, passed 11-16-
2005; Ord. 05-16, passed 1-4-2006)
§ 34.02 COLLECTION OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAXES.
   (A)   The executive authority of the city may, and is hereby authorized to,
contract with the County Fiscal Court for the collection of the occupational
license tax.
   (B)   This section shall become effective and be in force from and after its
passage and publication according to law.
(Ord. 02-08, passed 3-20-2002)
§ 34.03 REASONABLE ASSISTANCE TO HANDICAPPED INDIVIDUALS.
   The city shall render reasonable assistance to all handicapped individuals
exercising rights as set forth in this code.
(1993 Code, § 25.05) (Ord. 92-04, passed 4-1-1992)
§ 34.04 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE SET FORTH BY THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT;
APPEAL PROCESS.
   (A)   All complaints or requests regarding access or alleged discrimination
shall be made in writing and submitted to the City Clerk. A decision addressing
the complaint or request will be made within 15 days by the City Clerk. The
complainant will be notified of the decision and a record of the complaint or
request and the action taken will be maintained.
   (B)   If the decision of the City Clerk is not to the satisfaction of the
complainant, it may be appealed within 30 days of notification of the decision
to the Mayor. The appeal shall be in writing, stating the nature of the
complaint and the reason for the appeal. Within 30 days, the Mayor shall hold
an open public hearing to resolve the complaint. All proceedings of the hearing
will be recorded, transcribed, and maintained. A determination will be made by
the Mayor within 30 days of the hearing. The decision of the Mayor is final.
   (C)   A record of action taken on each request or complaint will be
maintained as part of the records or minutes at each level of the grievance
process.
   (D)   The individual’s right to prompt an equitable resolution of the
complaint will not be impaired by the pursuit of other remedies such as filing
the complaint with the United States Department of Justice or any other
appropriate federal agency. Furthermore, the filing of a lawsuit in state or
federal district court can occur at any time. The use of this grievance
procedure is not a prerequisite to the pursuit of other remedies.
(1993 Code, § 25.04) (Ord. 92-05, passed 4-1-1992)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Franchise tax on financial institutions
Property Taxation
   
35.15   Property assessment
   
35.16   Fiscal year
   
35.17   County assessment
   
35.18   County supervision, equalization, and review
   
35.19   Tax levy
   
35.20   Tax collection
   
35.21   Delinquent tax collection
   
35.22   Abandoned urban properties tax
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 FRANCHISE TAX ON FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed on all financial institutions, as defined in
KRS Ch. 136, located within the corporate limits of the city, for the 1996 tax
year and all subsequent years, a franchise tax at the rate of 0.025% on all
deposits, as defined in KRS Ch. 136, maintained by those financial
institutions.
   (B)   For transition purposes, the 1996 tax year will be treated differently
in terms of collection of taxes than for all subsequent years. For the 1996 tax
year, the following timetable is hereby established: The city will issue tax
bills to financial institutions no later than 5-1-1997. Payment of the tax
shall be due with a 2% discount by 5-31-1997, or without the discount by 6-30-
1997.
   (C)   For all tax years subsequent to the 1996 tax year, the following
timetable is hereby established: The city will issue tax bills to financial
institutions no later than December 1 of each year. Payment of the tax shall be
due with a 2% discount by December 31 of each year, or without the discount by
January 31 of each year.
   (D)   The city shall have a lien for taxes upon any and all property subject
to the tax imposed by this section, which lien shall be superior to all
encumbrances prior or subsequent.
   (E)   All taxes due in accordance with this section which are not paid
before 6-30-1997 for tax year 1996, or which are not paid before January 31 for
all subsequent years tax years, shall be deemed delinquent and shall be subject
to a penalty of 10% and shall bear interest at the rate of 12% per annum.
   (F)   All moneys collected pursuant to this section shall be paid into the
City General Fund to be used for the payment of proper expenditures as
determined by the City Council.
   (G)   The City Clerk is hereby directed to send a copy of this section to
the Commissioner of the State Department of Revenue.
   (H)   This section shall become effective and be in force from and after its
passage and publication according to law.
(Ord. 96-07, passed 10-2-1996)
PROPERTY TAXATION
§ 35.15 PROPERTY ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   All real and personal property within the city and all personal
property, except for tangible personal property having an actual and bona fide
situs within the city, which is owned by any person domiciled or actually
residing within the city on the assessment date hereinafter provided for, any
corporation having its chief office or place of business within the city on
that date, and/or any franchise of the same shall be subject to assessment and
taxation for the general purposes of the city during the next succeeding fiscal
year unless exempt from taxation by the State Constitution or state statutes.
   (B)   In addition, any franchise granted in whole or in part by the city
shall be assessed and taxed by the city, notwithstanding the fact that the
corporation owning or exercising the franchise may have its office or place of
business elsewhere.
(1993 Code, § 54.01)
§ 35.16 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city shall begin on July 1 of each succeeding year
and shall extend through June 30 of each succeeding year.
(1993 Code, § 54.02)
§ 35.17 COUNTY ASSESSMENT.
   The annual assessment made for county tax purposes, when supervised as
required by law, shall be the basis for the levying of the ad valorem tax for
the city for the fiscal year beginning on 7-1-1978, and each fiscal year
thereafter; and the assessment date for the city shall correspond with the
assessment date for county.
(1993 Code, § 54.03)
§ 35.18 COUNTY SUPERVISION, EQUALIZATION, AND REVIEW.
   (A)   The assessment made for county tax purposes of all real and personal
property within the city for the basis of levying the ad valorem tax for the
city shall be subject to supervision, equalization, and review in the same
manner as provided for in the state statutes.
   (B)   All notices to taxpayers for inspection of the tax roll and all other
notices required to be given by the County Property Valuation Administrator
shall be deemed to be notice from the city.
   (C)   All provisions for appeal as set forth in the state statutes shall be
applicable to appeals from the adoption of the county assessment by the city.
(1993 Code, § 54.04)
§ 35.19 TAX LEVY.
   Upon its receipt from the County Property Valuation Administrator that
portion of his or her records which represents the assessment of the property
within the city, the City Council shall, by ordinance, levy an ad valorem tax
and franchise tax at a rate sufficient to produce revenues for the purposes of
the city during the next fiscal year; however, the rate shall not exceed that
rate which is permitted by the state statutes.
(1993 Code, § 54.05)
§ 35.20 TAX COLLECTION.
   (A)   As soon as practicable after the County Property Valuation
Administrator has furnished the assessment lists and the City Council has
levied the tax at the determined rate, the City Clerk shall, from the
assessment lists, make out the tax bills for the ad valorem tax for the year.
The City Clerk shall then mail the tax bills to the appropriate persons for
payment.
   (B)   The City Clerk or the City Treasurer shall report in a timely fashion
to the City Council the amount of the tax or any other money he or she has
collected.
(1993 Code, § 54.06)
§ 35.21 DELINQUENT TAX COLLECTION.
   (A)   If any tax has remained delinquent for a period of three years, then
the City Treasurer shall prepare a list, verify it, and deliver the list to the
City Attorney. It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to diligently
prosecute the collection of the delinquent tax, and he or she shall take the
action necessary to protect the liens of the city for the tax. The City Council
may from time to time direct the City Treasurer to deliver to the City Attorney
any other bills as it deems necessary; however, any tax delinquent for a period
of three years shall be turned over to the City Attorney without further order
at any particular time.
   (B)   In addition to the tax, the city shall be entitled to collect all
interest, penalties, fees, costs, reasonable attorney fees, and other expenses
incurred by the city in the process of collecting the tax and the city shall
have all rights as provided for by law, including, but not limited to, the
rights set forth in KRS 134.420.
   (C)   The city shall have a lien for all delinquent taxes on all property
subject to the taxation of the city, together with all penalties and interest
that may have accrued thereon, which lien shall be superior to all other liens
and encumbrances.
(1993 Code, § 54.07) (Ord. 6-07, passed 11-1-2006; Ord. 23-06, passed 9-6-2023)
§ 35.22 ABANDONED URBAN PROPERTIES TAX.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED URBAN PROPERTY. Shall have the same meaning as in KRS 132.012.
   (B)   Abandoned urban property is hereby established as a separate
classification of real property for the purposes of ad valorem taxation.
   (C)   The rate of taxation levied upon abandoned urban properties shall be
$0.75 on each $100 of assessed value, or such higher amount as is hereafter
constitutionally authorized.
   (D)   Prior to November 30 of each year, the city shall determine which
properties in the city are abandoned urban properties and shall prepare and
furnish a list of abandoned urban properties located in the city to the
Treasurer and to the Campbell County Property Valuation Administrator.
   (E)   A property classified by the city as abandoned urban property as of
November 30 shall be taxed as such, at the rate set forth in §
35.22(C).
   (F)   If the owner repairs, rehabilitates or otherwise returns the property
to productive use, he or she shall notify the city to reevaluate whether the
property meets the definition of abandoned urban property for the following tax
year. If the city finds that the property no longer meets the definition of
abandoned urban property, it shall notify the Treasurer and the Campbell County
Property Valuation Administrator to strike the property from the list of
abandoned properties for the following tax year.
   (G)   No later than December 15 of each year, the city shall mail, by
regular first-class mail, to the owner(s) of each abandoned urban property, as
those name(s) are listed in the records of the Property Valuation
Administrator, a notice that this property has been classified as abandoned
urban property. The owner of any abandoned urban property who believes that his
or her or its property has been incorrectly classified may appeal the
classification to the city’s Vacant Properties Review Commission. The appeal
shall be in writing and shall be made no later than March 1 of the year. The
Vacant Properties Review Commission shall afford the owner the opportunity for
a hearing. If the Vacant Properties Review Commission finds the property was
incorrectly classified as abandoned urban property, it shall cause the property
to be removed from the list of properties so classified. The Vacant Properties
Review Commission shall develop policies and procedures for conducting such
appeals.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 1-18-2012)
Cross-reference:
   Vacant Properties Review Commission, see §§
32.25 through
32.28
CHAPTER 36: PERSONNEL
Section
   
36.01   Participation in the County Employees Retirement System
   
36.02   Personnel and Pay Classification Plan adopted by reference
   
36.03   Personnel Policies and Procedures Manual adopted by reference
§ 36.01 PARTICIPATION IN THE COUNTY EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The City Employees’ Defined Contribution and Profit Sharing Plan
established for employees of the city is hereby frozen, effective 6-30-1988, to
participation by those existing employees who are then participating therein
and who file with the city, on or before 6-30-1988, a written election to
continue participating therein in lieu of participating in the County Employees
Retirement System.
      (2)   The city hereby elects to participate in the County Employees
Retirement System effective 7-1-1988, and authorizes the Mayor to execute the
appropriate instruments to effectuate such an election.
      (3)   All employees now participating in the existing City Employees’
Defined Contribution and Profit Sharing Plan are hereby authorized to terminate
that participation and transfer to the County Employees Retirement System.
      (4)   The city shall continue to fund and manage the existing City
Employees’ Defined Contribution and Profit Sharing Plan for the benefit of any
employee electing to continue therein and for those who are entitled to
benefits in the existing plan.
      (5)   Employees hired after 7-1-1988, who are otherwise eligible to
participate in the City Employees’ Defined Contribution and Profit Sharing
Plan, shall participate only in the County Employees Retirement System.
      (6)   The city hereby adopts the terms and provisions of the County
Employees Retirement System under KRS 78.510 through 78.852.
      (7)   The individual employee accounts in the existing City Employees’
Defined Contribution and Profit Sharing Plan shall be frozen or distributed to
the respective employees upon the election of those employees to participate in
the County Employees Retirement System.
      (8)   The Mayor and City Council Members who have served subsequent to 1-
1-1972 are deemed for all purposes to be full-time elected officers for all
purposes as set forth in the state statutes in regard to the County Employees
Retirement System.
(1993 Code, § 25.01)
   (B)   Profit sharing plan termination.
      (1)   The prof it sharing plan for the employees of the city, which is
officially known as the City Employees’ Defined Contribution and Profit Sharing
Plan, shall be terminated as of 6-30-1988.
      (2)   All employees of the city who were participants in the Plan are
declared to be fully vested as of 6-30-1988.
      (3)   The Mayor is authorized and directed to execute any and all
documents required by the termination of the Plan, including, but not limited
to, all Internal Revenue Service documents and trust agreement revocations.
(1993 Code, § 25.02)
(Ord. 93-09, passed 9-15-1993; Ord. 02-15, passed 10-16-2002)
§ 36.02 PERSONNEL AND PAY CLASSIFICATION PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The City Personnel and Pay Classification Plan, as amended, is hereby
adopted by reference relating to officers and employees.
(1993 Code, § 21.13) (Ord. 92-06, passed 5-6-1992; Ord. 95-06, passed 12-20-
1995; Ord. 96-01, passed 4-3-1996; Ord. 96-02, passed 4-3-1996; Ord. 97-07,
passed 7-2-1997; Ord. 2000-07, passed 7-19-2000; Ord. 21-07, passed 9-1-2021)
§ 36.03 PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES MANUAL ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The City Personnel Policies and Procedures Manual is hereby adopted by
reference.
(1993 Code, § 21.14) (Ord. 90-07, passed 7-18-1990; Ord. 92-01, passed 2-5-
1992; Ord. 03-2000, passed 3-1-2000; Ord. 08-04, passed 3-5-2008; Ord. 12-08,
passed 8-1-2012; Ord. 15-01, passed 2-4-2015; Ord. 21-03, passed 5-5-2021)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WASTE COLLECTION
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   UTILITY STREET AND SIDEWALK REPAIRS
CHAPTER 50: WASTE COLLECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Disposal agreements
   
50.03   Littering generally
   
50.04   Litter and solid waste
   
50.05   Dead animals
   
50.06   Sharp and infected wastes regulated
Litter Control
   
50.15   Short title
   
50.16   Statement of purpose
   
50.17   Prohibitions concerning litter
   
50.18   Specific acts prohibited
   
50.19   Removal of litter
   
50.20   Solid waste collection
   
50.21   Building debris
   
50.22   Heavy users
   
50.23   Industrial and hazardous waste; removal by owner
   
50.24   Enforcement officers and procedures
Annual Solid Waste Service Charge
   
50.35   Rates
   
50.36   Due date
   
50.37   Date when charged against the owner
Citations, Cures and Exceptions
   
50.50   Citations
   
50.51   City cures
   
50.52   Owner cures
   
50.53   Exceptions
 
   
50.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Violations and fines
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any sworn officer of Code Enforcement or any other
city employee appointed as a citation officer as authorized by KRS 83A.087.
   COMMERCIAL UNIT. A space or a room or group of rooms used or rented, or
available for use or rental, as a commercial entity such as an office, factory,
store, hotel/motel, bed and breakfast or any other commercial or business
purpose. Each such commercial use within a single structure or structures shall
be treated and considered as a separate commercial unit.
   DUMP-OUTS. Any material emptied from a vehicle or building upon streets,
sidewalks, berms, roadsides or public places, or which are emptied onto private
property and which can be viewed from the street or by other adjacent
properties, other than that which is emptied in the appropriate litter
receptacles, and are set out for collection at the times and days provided in
this chapter. Dump-outs include, but are not limited to, removal of abandoned,
unused, used, or tenant-owned property from any building, structure, or single
family or multi-family residence.
   DWELLING UNIT. House or condominium or a room or group of rooms used or
rented, or available for use or rental, such as within improved real estate
used as an apartment, used or available for use as a residence, temporary or
otherwise, and which has its own entrance/exit which can be locked off from
other tenants and the general public.
   GARBAGE CAN. A can of the type commonly sold as a garbage can or a
recyclables can or container, having capacity not less than ten gallons and not
to exceed 30 gallons and having two handles upon the sides of the can or a ball
by which it may be lifted, or containers commonly referred to as "waste
wheelers." All garbage cans shall be watertight. It shall be permissible in
residential districts and areas to use three ten-gallon garbage cans in lieu of
one 30-gallon garbage can.
   HANDBILL. Any printed or written material, excluding newspapers, which
advertises for sale any commodity or thing or event of any kind.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. The same meaning as defined by the KRS 224.01-010.
   HEAVY USER. A person whose set out on a scheduled collection day exceeds
seven 30-gallon cans or three waste wheelers or their equivalent, as defined
below.
   HEAVY USER CONTAINER. A steel container, with lid, that is designed for rear
or front loading collection as specified by the waste hauler's contract.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. The waste products of canneries, slaughterhouses, packing
plants, large quantities of condemned food products, industrial wastes from
brick, concrete block, roofing shingle or tile plants, debris and wastes
accumulated from land clearings, excavating, building, rebuilding and altering
of buildings, structures, roads, streets, sidewalks or parkways by an owner or
contractor.
   LITTER.
      (1)   All solid wastes including, but not limited to containers,
packages, wrappings, printed matter or other material thrown or deposited upon
any street or in any sewer catch basin.
      (2)   LITTER shall also mean any liquid such as oil or anti-freeze dumped
or drained onto a city street or sewer catch basin.
   LITTER BAG. A bag, sack or other container made of any material which is
large enough to serve as a receptacle for litter inside the vehicle or
watercraft of any person.
   LITTER RECEPTACLE. Those containers used to deposit litter.
   MULTI-FAMILY STRUCTURES. Any building containing more than one living unit.
   NEWSPAPER. Any newspaper of general circulation, as defined by general law.
   NON-COMBUSTIBLE SOLID WASTE. Solid waste materials that are unburnable at
ordinary incinerator temperatures (800 degrees F to 1,800 degrees F) such as
metals, mineral matter, large quantities of glass or crockery, metal furniture,
automobile bodies or parts and other similar material or solid waste not usual
to housekeeping or to the operation of stores or offices.
   PARK. A reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other areas
in the city devoted to active or passive outdoor recreation.
   PERSON. Any individual, industry, public or private corporation, co-
partnership, association, firm or other entity whatsoever.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any property not publicly owned or held out for the use by
the public.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any area that is used or held out for use by the public
whether owned or operated by the public or private interests.
   SOLID WASTE. All putrescible and non-putrescible solid and semi-solid wastes
including, but not limited to, garbage, rubbish, ashes, industrial wastes,
swill, demolition and construction wastes, recyclables, abandoned vehicles or
parts thereof and discharged commodities.
   STREET. All public rights-of-way which have been designated as being city
streets, including alleys, and lying within their boundaries, used primarily
for vehicular traffic and shall be synonymous with the terms highway, roadway
or boulevard.
   SWEEP-OUTS. Any collection of debris or yard waste resulting from cleanup
operations, remodeling or rehabilitation operations that is deposited in or
around a public place.
   VEHICLE. Includes every device capable of being moved upon a public street
and in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be transported or
drawn upon a public street, excepting devices moved by human or animal power or
used exclusively upon stationary rail or tracks.
   WASTE WHEELER. A solid waste container supplied by the city's franchisee and
shall consist of either one 95-gallon container, one 65-gallon containers or
two 30-gallon containers, per unit. All containers shall be watertight. Any
combination of the use of garbage cans and/or waste wheeler shall be
permissible.
   WATERCRAFT. Any boat, ship, vessel, barge or other floating craft.
   YARD WASTE. All accumulations of grass, grass clippings, or shrubbery
cuttings and other solid waste attending the care and maintenance of lawns,
shrubbery, vines, trees and tree limbs.
(Ord. 21-12, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 50.02 DISPOSAL AGREEMENTS.
   The city has executed an agreement with one or more solid waste disposal
companies for collection of garbage. It has also entered into inter-
governmental cooperative agreements with other governmental entities for safe
disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous waste. These agreements are
incorporated by reference and copies of said agreements are on file in the
Office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 21-12, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 50.03 LITTERING GENERALLY.
   It is unlawful for any person to cause to exist, litter, place, deposit or
suffer to remain upon the street or in the sewer catch basins of the city any
litter, yard waste, or solid waste, including hand bills, circulars, paper or
any other solid waste matter or material.
(Ord. 21-12, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 50.04 LITTER AND SOLID WASTE.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw, place, sweep or drain upon any
street or in the sewer catch basins, any litter, solid waste, or yard waste.
(Ord. 21-12, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 50.05 DEAD ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner to permit any dead animal to remain upon
any public right-of-way without properly disposing of the same. It shall be the
responsibility of any person who shall accidentally kill an animal upon any
street to notify the City Clerk, code enforcement officer, or police to arrange
for or cause disposal.
(Ord. 21-12, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 50.06 SHARP AND INFECTED WASTES REGULATED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for an individual, person, corporation or other entity
to engage in the business of a medical office, dental office, any type of
laboratory or any other medically related facility, office or clinic or in the
operation of a plasmapheresis facility, as defined by the United States Food
and Drug Administration, or similar type facility for the collection,
processing, compatibility, testing, storage or distribution of blood and blood
components, unless the following requirements are followed, which relate to the
disposal of sharp and infective wastes:
      (1)   After use, all needles, disposable syringes, scalpel blades and
other sharp items shall be placed in a puncture-resistant container for
disposal:
         (a)   Blood and other body fluids shall be considered infective and,
therefore:
         (b)   All specimens of blood and body fluids shall be placed in a
container designed for such use, with a secure lid to prevent leaking during
any transport;
      (2)   Infective wastes shall either be incinerated or be autoclaved
before disposal in a sanitary landfill;
      (3)   Both disposable and reusable products, which have been contaminated
with blood, plasma or body fluids, shall be autoclaved or sterilized prior to
appropriate disposition; and
      (4)   All establishments regulated herein shall comply with the
guidelines established with the Federal Centers for Disease Control for the
disposal of wastes from the facility.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any individual, person, corporation, or other
entity not engaged in the business of a medical office, dental office or any
other health or medical facility, to dispose upon the right-of-way any type of
syringe, needle or other sharp items which have been or are capable of being
contaminated by blood or bodily fluids.
(Ord. 21-12, passed 10-20-2021)
LITTER CONTROL
§ 50.15 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be commonly referred to as the "Uniform Litter Control
and Garbage and Refuse Policy."
(Ord. 21-12, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 50.16 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to accomplish litter control in the
city.
   (B)   This subchapter is intended to place upon all persons within the city
the duty of contributing to the public cleanliness and appearance of the city
in order to promote the public health, safety and welfare and to protect the
economic interests of the people of the city against unsanitary and unsightly
conditions.
   (C)   It is further the intent of this subchapter to protect the people
against the health and safety menace and expense incident to littering.
(Ord. 21-12, passed 10-20-2021)
50.17 PROHIBITIONS CONCERNING LITTER.
   No person shall throw, drop, deposit, discard or otherwise dispose of litter
upon any public place in the city or upon any private property owned by him,
her or anyone else or in any waters within the jurisdiction of the city whether
from a vehicle or otherwise, except:
   (A)   When the property is designated by the state or by any of its agencies
or the city for disposal of solid waste and the person is authorized by the
proper public authority to so use the property;
   (B)   When depositing into a litter receptacle or other container in a
manner that the litter will be prevented from being carried away or deposited
by the elements upon any part of the public place or any private property; or
   (C)   When the person is the owner, agent of the owner, or does have control
or custody of the property, or has prior consent of the owner or tenant in
lawful possession of the property, or unless the act is done under the personal
direction of the owner or tenant and is done in connection with any remodeling,
rehabilitation or repair; provided, the litter will not cause a public nuisance
or be in violation of any other state or local laws, rules or regulations.
(Ord. 21-12, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 50.18 SPECIFIC ACTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or
otherwise deposit litter upon any public place or upon any private property.
   (B)   Dump-outs are prohibited.
   (C)   Depositing handbills on uninhabited or vacant property is prohibited.
   (D)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street unless the vehicle
is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping,
shifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand or gravel
may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction or water or other substance
may be sprinkled on a street surface in the cleaning or maintaining of the
street by a public authority having jurisdiction for the same or by persons
under contract or other authorization by the public authority.
   (E)   Any person owning or operating a vehicle from which any glass or other
objects of its load have fallen or escaped which would constitute an
obstruction or injure a vehicle or otherwise endanger travel upon the public
street shall immediately cause the public street to be cleaned of all such
glass or other objects and shall pay any cost therefor.
   (F)   Sweep-outs are prohibited.
(Ord. 21-12, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 50.19 REMOVAL OF LITTER.
   (A)   Removal of litter and solid waste from private property shall be the
responsibility of every property owner and/or tenant in the city.
   (B)   All owners and/or tenants shall keep the property free of litter and
solid waste.
   (C)   This includes:
      (1)   In loading/unloading and cleaning out areas of private property;
      (2)   At repair/construction and demolition sites;
      (3)   On private premises; and
      (4)   On sidewalks and steps.
(Ord. 21-12, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 50.20 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION.
   (A)   Each owner and/or tenant of private property shall comply with the
following minimum requirements in disposing of solid waste:
      (1)   The maximum weight of a loaded garbage can shall not exceed 75
pounds. The maximum weight of a loaded waste wheeler shall not exceed that
specified for the size of the individual container.
      (2)   All garbage cans, waste wheelers and heavy user containers shall be
maintained in good condition and repair and shall be subject to inspection by
the city.
   (B)   No garbage can or waste wheeler shall be kept upon any city or public
property or neighboring property not in the ownership or tenancy of the person
by whom the solid waste is accumulated, whether the neighboring property shall
be vacant or improved.
   (C)   Storage of solid waste in an open garbage can or waste wheeler shall
not be permitted.
   (D)   At times of collection by the city's authorized waste collection
contractor, all garbage cans or waste wheelers shall be placed at the curbside
or alley designated by the city.
   (E)   Garbage cans or waste wheelers shall be supplied at all multi-family
housing units by every property owner. A minimum of one waste wheeler should be
provided per unit. If the number of containers supplied proves insufficient to
allow the proper disposal of solid waste, then the property owner shall be
required to provide additional containers for the property.
   (F)   All garbage cans or waste wheelers shall be maintained in good
condition and repair. All such receptacles shall be provided with a cover
sufficiently tight to prevent flies and/or other insects from having access to
the contents of the receptacles. Containers shall be watertight.
   (G)   All garbage cans or waste wheelers shall be in conformity with the
city's existing contracts with the solid waste collection company.
   (H)   A non-containerized amount of solid waste and/or yard waste not
exceeding the volume and weight limits of a garbage can, 75 pounds, shall be
suitably bound to permit handling for collection without coming apart.
Shrubbery and loose materials must either be placed in an appropriate
collection receptacle or tied in bundles not over four feet in length or
weighing over 75 pounds. Dry carpet, obsolete flooring materials, if not placed
in a proper container, must be cut into four foot lengths and tied into
separate bundles, each not weighing more than 75 pounds.
   (I)   (1)   No property owner and/or resident of any premises within the
city shall continually deposit any accumulation of solid waste and/or yard
waste of such a volume as to be classified as a heavy user as defined herein,
on the sidewalks, alley, street or adjacent to the premises of the person by
whom the accumulation is made, for removal and disposition by the city.
      (2)   The property owner and/or occupant may arrange for the private
removal and transportation of the solid waste and/or yard waste within a
reasonable time after placement.
   (J)   All persons within the city shall be provided with scheduled
collection service and if applicable, large item pickup service.
   (K)   (1)   No person shall place any solid waste for collection on or
adjacent to any public way in the city, except on the calendar day designated
by the city.
      (2)   Garbage cans or waste wheelers can be set out no earlier than 5:00
p.m. the evening before the day set for collection and must be returned to
storage by the property owner no later than 6:00 p.m. on the day of collection.
      (3)   Loose items, such as furniture with soft cushions or mattresses
shall only be permitted to be put out alongside the garbage cans or waste
wheelers in accordance with the specifications of the waste collection
contractor, and shall be contained in plastic wrap. Under no circumstances
shall loose items that constitute a dump-out be permitted.
   (L)   The use of garbage bags for regular collection shall only be permitted
for the disposal of yard waste, so long as the garbage bags are securely closed
and the contents securely contained within the garbage bag.
   (M)   Recyclable materials shall be considered any items deemed as
acceptable recyclable material by the waste hauler of record. Recyclable
materials shall be stored in approved recycling containers as determined by the
city and/or its waste hauler of record. Putrescible waste shall not be mixed or
stored with non-putrescible waste.
   (N)   All garbage cans or waste wheelers shall be stored in the rear yards
of properties, inside enclosed garages, or in the side yards behind the front
line of the house. Under no circumstances shall garbage cans or waste wheelers
be stored in the front of the house.
   (O)   No garbage can, waste wheeler, or other items set out for garbage
collection shall be placed in a manner so as to obstruct any public right-of-
way, sidewalks, and streets.
(Ord. 21-12, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 50.21 BUILDING DEBRIS.
   (A)   No person engaged in the destruction, alteration, repair, removal or
demolition of any building or other structure whatsoever in the city shall
throw, cast or drop, or cause or permit to be thrown, cast or dropped, from any
elevation whatsoever, of the building or other structure, into or upon any of
the streets, sidewalks, alleys or other public ways of the city, any timber,
iron, stone, brick, plaster, shingles, roofing, shavings, chips or other
building material rubbish or debris of any kind.
   (B)   Any person engaged in building construction, repair or demolition may
lower and remove from the structure any such debris by the careful use of
machinery, elevators, pulleys, buckets, baskets, slides or troughs, or other
such appliances as may be deemed by the Building Instructor to be the best
adopted to ensure against injury and annoyance to the public in the use and
enjoyment of the street or place.
(Ord. 21-12, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 50.22 HEAVY USERS.
   (A)   (1)   New heavy users, after the effective date of this subchapter,
shall provide heavy user containers for collection. New multiple-family
dwellings with five or more dwelling units shall provide heavy user containers
for collection. Existing heavy users, as of the effective date of this
subchapter, shall provide heavy user containers for collection wherever the
city determines it is possible.
      (2)   In the event that the heavy user containers do not prove adequate
to accommodate the amount of solid waste generated at a particular property or
business, then the property owner shall be required to increase the number of
weekly collections at the site or the number of refuse containers for the site
by making necessary arrangements through the waste provider.
   (B)   (1)   Heavy user containers shall be located where they are readily
accessible from the public rights-of-way. To the maximum extent possible, these
containers shall be stored in the rear of each site and placed at least ten
feet from combustible portions of a building.
      (2)   The containers shall be placed on a concrete slab and be shielded
from visibility by a solid enclosure and city-approved landscaping.
(Ord. 21-12, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 50.23 INDUSTRIAL AND HAZARDOUS WASTE; REMOVAL BY OWNER.
   Industrial waste and hazardous waste and non-combustible solid waste shall
be removed by the owner, occupant, operator or contractor performing the work
in compliance with state and federal laws and regulations.
(Ord. 21-12, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 50.24 ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Enforcement of this subchapter may be made by any police officer,
safety officer, or code enforcement officer. The officer may issue a warning or
a citation to any violators.
   (B)   The officer shall have the power and authority to enter upon private
or public property for the purpose of inspecting and investigating conditions
relating to the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The citation shall bear a minimum and maximum penalty amount thereon,
payable within seven days of issuance.
   (D)   Failure to pay or appeal the citation issued to the Code Enforcement
Board within seven days from service of the citation shall result in a waiver
of the right to a hearing to contest the citation, as well as a waiver of all
appeals to the Campbell District Court, and shall be deemed as a final
admission that the violation was committed, and that the imposition of the
civil fine as set forth in this chapter is reasonable and appropriate.
   (E)   Thereafter, the Code Enforcement Board shall be permitted to file a
lien against the subject real estate to secure payment.
(Ord. 21-12, passed 10-20-2021)
ANNUAL SOLID WASTE SERVICE CHARGE
§ 50.35 RATES.
   (A)   The owners of real estate improved by a building or dwelling occupied
by one family shall pay an annual waste fee. This fee will be determined by
receiving bids for the service within the city.
   (B)   The owners of real estate improved by a building or dwelling occupied
by two or more apartment units, condominiums, or townhouses shall pay an annual
waste fee per each apartment unit, condominium, or townhouse.
   (C)   Individual business owners, firms, or corporations operating
businesses shall contract separately for solid waste and recyclable collection
with the city's solid waste contractor.
   (D)   Business utilizing dumpsters in lieu of curbside waste collection,
including apartment complexes with 20 or more units, shall contract with a
waste collection company of their choice.
   (E)   All fees include at a minimum, one waste pickup and one recyclable
pickup per week.
(Ord. 21-12, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 50.36 DUE DATE.
   The city shall have a lien on all property for which benefit the waste
collection charge is hereby levied for payment, and for all penalties,
interest, fees, commissions, charges and other expenses including court costs
and attorneys fees incurred by reason of any delinquency in payment of such
charge, or in the process of collecting them, and such lien has priority over
all other obligations or liabilities for which the property is liable.
(Ord. 21-12, passed 10-20-2021; Ord. 23-05, passed 9-6-2023)
§ 50.37 DATE WHEN CHARGED AGAINST THE OWNER.
   The annual solid waste fee shall be added to the property tax bill for each
residential property in the city receiving solid waste and recyclable
collection services. It shall be due and payable pursuant to §
50.36. Collection service for new dwelling units will be pro-rated according to
the move in date. Residents may be billed separately from the tax bill.
(Ord. 21-12, passed 10-20-2021; Ord. 23-05, passed 9-6-2023)
CITATIONS, CURES AND EXCEPTIONS
§ 50.50 CITATIONS.
   (A)   The city, by and through its code enforcement officers, peace officers
and safety officers may issue citations and impose fines, penalties and/or
surcharges related to a violation of any provision of this chapter and the
costs incurred for the abatement of any violation, including, but not limited
to attorney fees, for each violation of this chapter. Commercial and industrial
end users, and owners of commercial, residential, multi-unit residential or
mixed use parcels upon which a violation has occurred shall be responsible for
responding to the citation, and for the payment of any fine, penalty, or
surcharge imposed thereunder.
   (B)   Appeals of any citation, fine, penalty or surcharge imposed under this
chapter shall be taken to the Code Enforcement Board by filing a written appeal
with the City Clerk within seven days of the activity being appealed. An appeal
shall not cause a stay of the officer's order to remediate or abate any
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 21-12, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 50.51 CITY CURES.
   In addition to the penalties provided in this chapter, the city reserves the
right to cure or abate any condition existing on a parcel that constitutes a
violation of this chapter in order to minimize any threats to the general
safety, health and welfare of its residents at the owner's or commercial end
user's sole expense. The city shall be able to recoup its labor and all out-of-
pocket costs, expenses, fees, and charges from the owner of the parcel or the
commercial end user, and to place a lien on the property in the event that the
city's costs are not paid within seven days from when the city serves a written
invoice for payment upon the responsible party.
(Ord. 21-12, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 50.52 OWNER CURES.
   Upon receipt of a notice of violation or citation issued by the code
enforcement officer, peace officer or safety officer under this chapter, the
owner of any residential or multi-unit residential parcel and/or commercial or
industrial end users may cure a condition that constitutes a violation of any
provision of this chapter by commencing action to cure the violation within one
hour of having received notice of the violation. Failure to cure the violation
shall result in the imposition of the penalties provided in this chapter, as
well as the costs of the city if it opts to cure under §
50.51.
(Ord. 21-12, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 50.53 EXCEPTIONS.
   Upon a showing of good cause or hardship and in accordance with applicable
laws and regulations, the Mayor, or his/her designee, upon recommendation of
the code enforcement officer, peace officer, or safety officer, may make
exceptions to the requirements of this chapter. Such exceptions shall be in
writing and placed in the records maintained by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 21-12, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be
subject to the civil fines as set out in Appendix A, as adopted.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties set out in Appendix A, any person in
violation of any provision of this chapter may also be assessed additional
fines, charges, fees, and surcharges incurred by the city as a result of
enforcing this chapter. If any citation remains unpaid after 30 days from the
date of the expiration of any appeal deadline, or the decision of the Code
Enforcement Board, whichever comes later, then the city shall assess a 10%
penalty upon the unpaid amount. In addition, from the date of the delinquency
forward, there shall be assessed interest on the unpaid amount at the rate of
12% per year, until paid.
   (C)   These penalties are not exclusive of each other and a person may be
assessed multiple penalties and citations for any one violation of the
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   The city and its officers are authorized to cause a lien to be placed
on any property with unpaid fines, costs, assessments, or surcharges arising
from enforcement of any provision of this chapter, and the lien shall be
subject to penalties and interest and shall include the city's filing costs and
attorney fees.
   (E)   Each day that a property remains non-compliant with the provisions of
this chapter shall be considered a separate offense, subject to the penalties,
charges, and fees provided herein.
   (F)   In addition to the penalties and fines provided herein, any violation
of the provisions of this chapter may be considered as grounds for the
suspension, termination, denial, or revocation of any license or privilege
issued to the property owner by the city, including, but not limited to
occupational and rental licenses.
(Ord. 21-12, passed 10-20-2021)
APPENDIX A: VIOLATIONS AND FINES
Violation Minimum Fine Maximum Fine
Violation                                             Minimum Fine Maximum Fine
Pedestrian dropping litter                            $50          $250
Litter thrown from vehicle                            $50          $250
Dump-outs                                             $50          $500
Vehicle load improperly secured or not tarped; load   $25          $125
escape
Depositing handbills or uninhabited, vacant property  $25          $125
Sweep-outs                                            $25          $125
Improper disposition of construction waste            $50          $500
Damaging/defacing litter receptacles                  $25          $125
Use of litter receptacles for household/business      $50          $500
solid waste
Solid waste was burned                                $50          $500
Improper disposition of waste at construction,
demolition or repair sites (i.e. dropping shingles    $25          $125
off roof onto public property)
Non-containerized solid waste not suitably bound for
collection falls apart; garbage cans and waste
wheelers set out prior to 5:00 p.m. the day before    $25          $125
collection or not removed within 12 hours of
collection
Solid waste in garbage bags                           $25          $125
Garbage cans and waste wheelers not secured at top    $25          $125
Remodeling, rehab, repair solid waste in excess of    $25          $125
seven calendar days
Inadequate number of litter receptacles in parking    $25          $125
lot
No litter receptacles in commercial/industrial        $25          $125
loading/unloading area
Littered property:
   Loading/unloading areas                         $25          $125
   Repair/construction/demolition areas            $25          $125
   Residential                                     $25          $125
Storage of garbage cans or waste wheeler on city,     $25          $125
public or neighboring property
Garbage cans or waste wheelers not set out at area    $25          $125
designated by city
Solid waste stocked in open garbage can/waste wheeler $25          $125
Owner not supplying garbage cans or waste wheeler at  $25          $125
multi-family units
Garbage cans or waste wheelers not maintained in good $25          $125
repair and sufficiently tight and waterproof cover
Large accumulation of solid waste not removed by      $25          $125
owner/occupant
New multi-family dwellings not providing heavy user   $25          $125
containers
Industrial and hazardous waste not removed by owner/  $25          $125
occupant
 
(Ord. 21-12, passed 10-20-2021)
 
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
   
51.01   Connection to the sewer system
   
51.02   Permit
   
51.03   Inspection and report
   
51.04   Construction specifications
   
51.05   Downspout, driveway, and storm water drains
   
51.06   Storm sewers
   
51.07   Erosion
   
51.08   Liability
   
51.09   Privies and septic tanks
§ 51.01 CONNECTION TO THE SEWER SYSTEM.
   The owners of all lots or other real estate abutting on the streets or other
public highways of the city wherein any sewer has been constructed and the
owners of lots or other real estate so adjacent to the sewer system of the city
wherein any public sewer has been constructed over private property are hereby
required to make any connections as are necessary to convey the sewage from the
real estate into the sewer system. This chapter applies to any sewer
constructed before and after the adoption of this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 83.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.02 PERMIT.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, PERSONS shall mean any person,
association of persons, joint owner of real estate, firm, or corporation, as
the case may be.
   (B)   All persons tapping into or connecting to, directly or indirectly, any
building or dwelling with any sewer shall first obtain from the Building
Inspector a license or permit for making the connection.
   (C)   The permit provided for herein shall be procured before any
construction work on any building or dwelling is commenced and shall be
required of all owners or their agents of any building or dwelling to be
constructed or located on property abutting in whole or in part on the sewer
improvement connecting the building or dwelling to the sewer system. The
occupancy of the building or dwelling shall be prima facie evidence of the
connection with and use of the sewer system.
   (D)   The Building Inspector is authorized and directed to prepare and keep
on hand suitable forms for the permit granted hereunder; and the applicant,
upon the granting of a permit to connect with the sewer system, shall pay to
the Building Inspector the sum of $500 for any single-family unit. All multi-
family units shall be $500 for the first tap-in and $100 for each subsequent
tap-in per building.
(1993 Code, § 83.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.03 INSPECTION AND REPORT.
   In all cases where plumbing work is being inspected by the County Plumbing
Inspector of the State Board of Health, in connection with the making of any
connection to the sewer system of the city, the City Building Inspector shall
accept the report or inspection of the connection made by the County Plumbing
Inspector. The County Plumbing inspector shall furnish a written record of his
or her inspection to the Building Inspector on cards to be furnished by the
city.
(1993 Code, § 83.03)
§ 51.04 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, association of persons, joint
owner of real estate, firm, or corporation, or the owners or agents in charge
of laying out subdivisions, to construct any sewer line therein that is not in
accordance with all pertinent regulations.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to construct any sewer so that its connection
with the sewer system of the city would be impracticable or impossible.
(1993 Code, § 83.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.05 DOWNSPOUT, DRIVEWAY, AND STORM WATER DRAINS.
   (A)   All downspout drains, driveway drains, and storm water drains shall be
connected to storm sewers where and when it is, in the opinion of the Building
Inspector, reasonable to do so; but in no case is any storm drain or sewer to
be connected to a sanitary sewer.
   (B)   No zoning or building permit is to be issued for any structure which
does not show the location of downspout drains, driveway drains, and storm
water drains from the point of collection to the point of disposal in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 83.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.06 STORM SEWERS.
   (A)   Where it is impractical to tie or connect a house storm drain system
directly to a storm sewer, the storm water shall be carried underground in a
pipe to be disposed of in the gutter of the public street abutting the lot on
which the construction or improvement is taking place. If it is necessary to
cut the curb to place a storm drain so that storm water will empty into the
public street gutter, the curb shall be patched and grouted in a clean,
workmanlike manner acceptable to the Building Inspector and at the cost of the
owner or contractor.
   (B)   If storm water cannot be disposed of in a public storm sewer or street
gutter, the storm water shall be carried in a pipe into the backyard to a point
approximately equidistant from the two side lot lines, the rear lot line, and
the rear line of the structure. No storm water shall be discharged toward or in
the immediate vicinity of a property line, unless the discharge is approved by
the Building Inspector. The termination of the line shall be marked so that,
during final inspection, the Building Inspector may approve or order changes in
the same.
(1993 Code, § 83.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.07 EROSION.
   The owner and the contractor shall in all instances do and perform all work
necessary to prevent or minimize erosion of land as directed by the Building
Inspector.
(1993 Code, § 83.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.08 LIABILITY.
   (A)   In any instance where storm water not being discharged as described
herein from any existing or new structure causes damage or loss to any public
land or structure, the damage or loss shall be repaired or replaced by the
owner of the property from which the storm water came.
   (B)   All costs shall be borne by the owner, and the storm water drain
system shall be repaired in accordance with all provisions of this code.
(1993 Code, § 83.08)
§ 51.09 PRIVIES AND SEPTIC TANKS.
   It shall be unlawful to construct any disposal plant, privy vault, privy, or
septic tank within the city in the areas wherein the city sewer system has been
constructed.
(1993 Code, § 83.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 52: UTILITY STREET AND SIDEWALK REPAIRS
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Reconstruction of street segment in certain cases; waivers; restoration
to be completed promptly and expeditiously
   
52.03   Permit fee and performance guarantee required
   
52.04   Emergency repairs
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARTICIPATE. A utility company and/or property owner which assesses and
repairs or replaces, as appropriate, in a manner that is consistent with good
engineering practice, to be determined in the sole discretion of the Director
or Public Works, who may reply on an opinion issued by a licensed Kentucky
engineer, underground lines, pipes, conduit, wires, cables or other objects, as
part of the city’s Street Replacement and Repair Program, at the time when the
street, curb, or sidewalk, is excavated or opened by the city as part of the
city's Street Replacement and Repair Program. Declining to assess and repair,
or replace underground lines, pipes, wires, or other objects, due to budget
constraints or costs, shall not constitute good engineering practice under this
chapter.
   PERSON IN CONTROL. When referring to a utility company and/or property
owner, includes:
      (1)   Any persons who performs the work involving the disruption,
excavation, boring or cutting into the surface, sub-grade, or other portion of
any city street, curb or sidewalk;
      (2)   Any person employed by the utility company who has the right or
ability to supervise, control or direct any person described in (1), and shall
include, without limitation, the Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director,
Deputy Executive Director, Chief Operating Officer, President Executive Vice
President, or Vice President, of the utility company which has any operational
control of any person described in (1).
   PROPERTY OWNER. The person and/or persons who appear as grantees on the last
deed of conveyance recorded with the Campbell County Clerk’s Office.
   RECONSTRUCTION. The full and complete construction, including complete
excavation and replacement of sub-grade, base, under-drains, drainage blankets,
surface curbs, and other street components, consistent with the specifications
set forth by the city as determined by the City Engineer.
   RESTORATION. Returning a portion of street or street segment, to its
condition, and that condition existed prior to any work being performed
consistent with the specifications set forth by the City Engineer.
   STREET REPLACEMENT AND REPAIR PROGRAM. The City of Southgate, Kentucky’s
planned systemic street replacement and repair program, which includes the
overlay and/or reconstruction of city streets and curbs, and is funded through
the Municipal Road Aid Program, the city’s road tax funds and/or other city
funds.
   STREET SEGMENT. In the case of any reconstruction, the area of the street
required to be reconstructed as determined by the City Engineer.
   UTILITY COMPANY. An entity which provides an essential commodity or service,
including, without limitation, water sewage, electricity, gas or natural gas,
transportation, cable, data or communication to the public. UTILITY COMPANY
shall include but not limited to Cincinnati Bell, Time Warner Cable, Duke
Energy, Sanitation District #1 of Northern Kentucky, and the Northern Kentucky
Water District.
(Ord. 15-02, passed 4-1-2015)
§ 52.02 RECONSTRUCTION OF STREET SEGMENT IN CERTAIN CASES; WAIVERS; RESTORATION
TO BE COMPLETED PROMPTLY AND EXPEDITIOUSLY.
   (A)   Any utility company and/or property owner which disrupts, excavates,
bores or cuts into the surface, sub-grade, or other portion of any city street
or curb which has been replaced or repaired under the Street Replacement and
Repair Program within the 15 years immediately preceding the date the utility
company and/or property owner applies for its permit under §
52.03, shall conduct a complete reconstruction, as that term is defined in §
52.01 of the street segment, as that term is defined in §
52.01, and any permit granted under this action shall require such
reconstruction of the street segment, unless a waiver is granted as provided in
division (C) below. Such reconstruction shall occur and be completed within 365
days of the disruption, excavation, boring or cutting into the surface.
Notwithstanding, the foregoing, this division (A) shall not apply if:
      (1)   The utility company participated, as that term is defined in §
52.01, in the repair or replacement of the portion of the street which is
proposed to be disrupted, excavated, bored or cut by the utility company, when
the city reconstructed or repaired that portion of the street, and
      (2)   The disruption, excavation, boring or cutting into the surface,
sub-grade, or other portion of any city street or curb is necessitated by good
engineering practice, as determined in sole discretion of the Director of
Public Works, who may rely on an opinion issued by a licensed Kentucky
engineer.
   (B)   (1)   Waivers to division (A) or any of its requirements, or waivers
with conditions, may be granted by the City Administrative Officer, the Public
Works Director, upon the recommendation and advice of the Public Works
Director, who shall consider the following in determining whether to grant such
waiver:
         (a)   The amount of time that will lapse prior the next repair or
replacement of the street segment in question by the city under the Street
Replacement and Repair Program;
         (b)   Whether the City Engineer believes or has issued an opinion
regarding whether the waiver will not cause the shortening of the lifespan of
the street segment in question or otherwise cause harm to the city;
         (c)   Whether unique topography or engineering factors justify the
granting of the waiver;
         (d)   The furtherance of the goals of this chapter are met through the
granting of the waiver, including whether the repair or replacement of the
street was foreseeable by the utility company during the last road
reconstruction or repair by the city under the Street Replacement and Repair
Program; and
         (e)   The hardship to applicant in light of the goals of this chapter.
      (2)   No waiver may be granted until the City Engineer is consulted and
renders an opinion. Requests for waivers shall be in writing and delivered to
the City Clerk and shall be submitted, except in cases of emergency, prior to
the disruption, excavation, or cutting into the surface, sub-grade, or other
portion of any city street, curb or sidewalk.
      (3)   Any appeals to waiver determinations shall be made to the Mayor, by
delivering a notice of appeal to the City Clerk, in writing, within seven
calendar days of the original determination; the Mayor shall hold a hearing on
the appeal within 30 days of the city’s receipt of the appeal and issue a
decision thereon with seven days of the hearing. Further appeal may be had to
the Circuit Court, by filing a notice of appeal and complaint within 14 days
after the Mayor’s determination, which shall be limited to a review of the
record before the Mayor and a determination as to whether the Mayor abused his
or her discretion and acted arbitrarily and capriciously.
   (C)   If the Director of Public Works, after consulting with the City
Engineer, determines that any sidewalks or driveway located in a street segment
being reconstructed or restored by a utility company and/or property owner
requires repair as part of the utility company’s and/or property owner’s
project, then the utility company and/or property owner shall perform such work
consistent with the specifications as required by the City Engineer.
   (D)   All restoration work related to the permit shall be completed in a
prompt and expeditious manner to minimize the amount of time any portion of the
public right-of-way area is disturbed. If permanent restoration, in accordance
with the specifications as defined herein, does not occur immediately upon
completion of work, the permit holder shall be required to complete temporary
restoration of all disturbed area in accordance with city specifications. All
permanent restoration work shall be completed within 30 days from the date of
the permit’s issuance, or promptly upon completion of the work, whichever is
later, during the time period of December 1 through March 31; permanent
restoration shall be completed in a timely manner, subject to appropriate
weather conditions. A final inspection of all permanent restoration work is
required by the Public Works Director or a designee.
   (E)   No person in control shall case, permit, or allow any violation of
division (A), (C) or (D) of this section. No person in control, having received
notice by the city of a violation of division (A), (C) or (D) of this section
shall fail to correct said violation within 30 days of notice, or, if
reconstruction is involved, shall fail to cause such reconstruction to occur
within 365 days of that notice. Notice under this division is valid if sent by
ordinary U.S. mail, certified mail, facsimile, or electronic mail.
(Ord. 15-02, passed 4-1-2015) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 PERMIT FEE AND PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit fee.
      (1)   Each application shall be accompanied with payment of a permit
application fee of $25. Utility companies and/or property owner shall have the
option to pay fees on a semi-annual basis by separate invoice from the city.
The fee shall be doubled for any applicant who commences with the opening of
the street of right-of-way without first having obtained the required permit.
In addition, each application shall require the submission of a performance
guaranty, in the form of cash, cashier's check, performance bond, unconditional
irrevocable letter of credit, or similar instrument, acceptable to the city,
which shall serve as a guarantee that all restoration or reconstruction work
will be completed by the permit holder in accordance with the terms and
provisions of §§
52.02 and
52.03. The performance guarantee requirement shall not apply to permits
encompassing sod-only cuts and other activity in unimproved areas of the public
right-of-way.
      (2)   The amount of the performance guaranty shall be based upon the
size/area of the street opening in cases not subject to reconstruction under
this chapter, or the size/area of the street segment which must be
reconstructed in cases subject to reconstruction under §
52.02, in accordance with the following table:
 
RESTORATION WORK
100 square feet or less      $30 per square foot
Greater than 100 square feet $20 per square foot
 
      (3)   If the exact amount of disturbed area is not available or unknown
upon submission of the street opening application, the applicant may estimate
the approximate size or area of the work area and submit a corresponding
performance guaranty.
   (B)   Single performance guarantee.
      (1)   As an option to individual guaranties identified above and
submitted with applicant, utility companies may submit a single guaranty in the
amount of $5,000 to cover all permit activity during the course of the calendar
year consisting of spot or patch repairs and emergency repairs. Any other
projects by any utility company shall comply with the square foot rates set
forth above. This division (B) shall not apply to projects which require
reconstruction under §
52.02.
      (2)   Upon the completion of permanent restoration of reconstruction of a
street opening, the Public Works Director or a designee shall inspect all
finished work to ensure conformance with applicable city specifications. If
restoration or reconstruction work is accepted by the city, the performance
guaranty shall be promptly released and returned to the permit holder. If the
restoration of reconstruction work is determined to be non-compliant with city
specification, the Public Works Director or a designee shall notify the permit
holder, in writing, of the specific deficiency in restoration work. A second
inspection shall be performed in 30 days by a city representative to determine
if the reported deficiency has been corrected. If a deficiency still exists,
the Public Works Director or designee shall issue a final written notice to the
permit holder advising that if restoration or reconstruction work compliance is
not completed within ten days, the city shall order the work completed at the
cost of the permit holder through application of the performance guaranty, and
the permit holder shall forfeit any and all rights to the performance guaranty
or portion of the performance guaranty if an annual guaranty has been posted.
Any dispute or disagreement regarding compliance with the terms and provisions
of §
52.02 must be submitted to the Mayor, in writing, for review and consideration,
within ten days from the Public Works Director’s decision. The Mayor’s decision
shall be final.
(Ord. 15-02, passed 4-1-2015) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04 EMERGENCY REPAIRS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
52.02, emergency street opening by utility companies and other persons shall be
permitted when emergency repair of a utility system is warranted due to
breakages, service disruption, and/or safety considerations. Any person
performing an emergency street opening shall notify the city and complete and
submit a permit application along with the required fee and performance
guaranty no later than the next business day that the city offices are open for
business. All other provisions of §
52.02 shall apply to emergency street opening work and restoration or
reconstruction requirements.
(Ord. 15-02, passed 4-1-2015) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates §
52.02 other than §
52.02(E) shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor, and shall, upon conviction,
be fined not less $250, nor more than $500, and imprisoned for not less than
seven days nor more than 12 months.
   (B)   Any person, including any person in control, who violates §
52.02(E) shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor, and shall, upon conviction,
be fined not less than $300 and not more than $500, and imprisoned for not less
than 60 days, nor more than 12 months for each such conviction.
   (C)   In addition to the remedies set forth in this section, any person,
corporation, or entity, which violates §
52.02(A), (C), (D) or (E), shall be liable to the city for full amount of
restoration or reconstruction required under those sections, in addition to
reasonable engineering fees, attorney fees, costs, and expert fees, for the
enforcement of those sections. The amount of liability may be proven by an
opinion of a licensed engineer, to a reasonable degree of engineering
certainty, about the costs to conduct such restoration or reconstruction, and
without regard to whether or not such restoration or reconstruction was
performed or will be performed by the city.
   (D)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, except §
52.02, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined
not more than $500.
(Ord. 15-02, passed 4-1-2015; Am. Ord. 16-10, passed 10-19-2016)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Traffic-control signs or signals
   
70.03   Enforcement
   
70.04   Accident reports
   
70.05   Play streets
Hearing Board
   
70.20   Enforcement
   
70.21   Establishment
   
70.22   Appeal of citation; hearing; appeal
   
70.23   Impoundment of vehicles; hearing procedures
   
70.24   Lien for fines and other charges
   
70.25   Vehicle deemed abandoned; escheat to city; disposal of vehicle
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. Any automobile, motorcycle, and other vehicle
propelled otherwise than by muscular power.
(1993 Code, § 40.01)
§ 70.02 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNS OR SIGNALS.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized, upon the advice and direction of the City
Council, to cause to be erected traffic-control signs or signals, including,
but not limited to, stop signs, parking regulation signs, no-parking yellow
curb markings, one-way traffic signs, no-outlet signs, snow emergency signs,
and other miscellaneous signs where, in the judgment of the City Council, the
safety and welfare of the city so requires.
(1993 Code, § 40.02)
§ 70.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Police Department shall exercise all power and authority in
relation to the management and control of vehicular traffic in accordance with
the provisions of this title and the laws of the state.
   (B)   At public gatherings or in emergencies, operators of vehicles must
stand or move as directed by the police.
(1993 Code, § 40.05) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation operating and/or owning a vehicle
which is involved in an accident resulting in fatal or nonfatal personal injury
to any person or damage to any vehicle involved in the accident which renders
any vehicle inoperable shall be required to file a written report of the
accident within ten days of the occurrence with the Police Department.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation operating and/or owning a vehicle
involved in an accident which requires that notification of the accident be
filed with the Bureau of State Police in the provisions of the state statutes
shall provide a copy of the report within ten days of the date of the accident
to the Police Department.
(1993 Code, § 40.09) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 PLAY STREETS.
   (A)   The Mayor is hereby authorized, with the approval of the City Council,
during hours when public traffic will not be interfered with, to close or cause
to be closed any street to vehicular traffic.
   (B)   The authority shall be exercised only in cases where it is necessary
or expedient to do so in order to provide a safe place in which the children or
residents of the neighborhood may play, and such play streets shall be properly
marked while so restricted.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle upon the restricted streets
while they are so restricted, except in cases of emergency.
(1993 Code, § 40.10) Penalty, see §
70.99
HEARING BOARD
§ 70.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The city hereby adopts the provisions of the Kentucky Revised Statutes
which apply to the enforcement of parking citations within the city as set
forth in KRS 82.600 through 82.640.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, “Hearing Board” means the City of
Southgate Parking Citation Hearing Board.
(1993 Code, § 43.01) (Ord. 14-05, passed 8-20-2014)
§ 70.21 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby established a City of Southgate Parking Citation
Hearing Board which shall have the responsibilities and powers to conduct
hearings relative to appeals of parking citations and the issuance of citations
for violations of any ordinance which requires the purchase and display of city
automobile license tags.
   (B)   The Hearing Board shall be composed of not less than one and not more
than three city residents appointed by the Mayor by executive order for a term
of two years and who may likewise be removed at will by executive order.
Members of the Hearing Board shall not be employees of the city or the city
Police Department. Members of the Hearing Board shall serve as hearing officers
over hearings appealing the issuance of a parking citation or the issuance of
citations for violation of any ordinance requiring the purchase and display of
city automobile license tags, with each hearing being presided over by one
hearing officer. Any action of the hearing officer in relation to the appeal
shall be deemed to be the action of the Hearing Board.
(1993 Code, § 43.02) (Ord. 14-05, passed 8-20-2014)
§ 70.22 APPEAL OF CITATION; HEARING; APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person cited for a parking violation, or a failure to purchase or
display a city tag on an automobile parked in the City of Southgate may contest
the violation by requesting in writing a hearing before a Hearing Board hearing
officer. The hearing shall be held no later than 14 days from the date of
receipt of the request, unless prior to the hearing the person requesting the
hearing requests an extension of time, not to exceed 14 days. No less than
seven days prior to the date set for the hearing, the Hearing Board or the
hearing officer shall send notice to the registered owner of the vehicle
appealing the violation of the date, time, and place of the hearing through
regular U.S. Mail, or e-mail, or any other recognized delivery medium. Any
person requesting a hearing who fails to appear at the time and place set for
the hearing shall be deemed to be guilty of the violation, and shall not have
any further rights to appeal.
   (B)   At the hearing, after consideration of the evidence, the hearing
officer shall determine whether a violation was committed. Where it has not
been established that the violation was committed, an order dismissing the
citation shall be entered, and all civil penalties shall be withdrawn and held
for naught. Where it has been established that a violation was committed the
Hearing Board shall uphold the citation and order the owner to pay the citation
within seven days. A copy of the order shall be furnished to the owner. Any
person ordered to pay the fine who fails to do so within seven days shall be
deemed to have refused to pay the fine levied by the citation.
   (C)   All persons appearing before the hearing officer shall be sworn in by
an officer of the court or any notary public. The hearing officer may consider
the citation, and any other written report made under oath by the officer in
lieu of the officer’s personal appearance at the hearing. At the conclusion of
the hearing, the hearing officer shall announce his or her decision and cause
that decision to be in writing and distributed to the appellant, with a copy of
the decision, and the record on appeal being maintained in the office of the
City Clerk. The hearing officer’s decision is the final action of the Hearing
Board.
   (D)   An appeal of the hearing officer’s determination may be made to the
Campbell County District Court within seven days of the hearing officer’s
determination. The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint and a
copy of the hearing officer’s decision, and the appeal record in the same
manner as any civil action under the Rules of Civil Procedure. The action shall
be tried de novo and the burden shall be upon the appellant. If the court finds
that a violation occurred, the owner shall be ordered to pay all fines, fees,
and penalties, occurring as of the date of the judgment. If the court finds
that a violation did not occur, the city shall be ordered to dismiss the
citation and the plaintiff shall be authorized to recover his or her costs.
(KRS 82.620)
   (E)   The judgment of the District Court may be appealed to the Circuit
Court in accordance with the Rules of Civil Procedure. (KRS 82.620).
(1993 Code, § 43.04) (Ord. 14-05, passed 8-20-2014) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES; HEARING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The city, through any law enforcement officer, may impound a motor
vehicle parked, stopped or standing upon a street or public way within its
jurisdiction in violation of any city ordinance or state statute prohibiting
parking, stopping or standing in the location, manner or at the time the
vehicle is cited or for any other lawful reason.
   (B)   In addition to the fines levied for the parking or traffic offense,
the registered owner of the impounded motor vehicle shall be assessed and
charged all fees, costs, and expenses arising from the towing, handling and
storage charges upon such impounded vehicle.
   (C)   No impounded vehicle shall be released by the city to the owner until
and unless the city has received the payment of the towing, handling and
storage charges imposed thereon, unless the owner or other person entitled to
possession challenges the validity of the impoundment pursuant to division (D)
of this section. A vehicle may be released to the owner or other person
entitled to possession only upon proof of ownership or right to possession. The
local government may require reasonable security, bond or other assurances of
indemnification from a person who is not the registered owner of the vehicle
prior to releasing the vehicle to such person.
   (D)   Hearing procedures. The owner or other person entitled to possession
of a motor vehicle which has been impounded pursuant to this section or any
other ordinance authorizing the impoundment of a motor vehicle may challenge
the validity of such impoundment and request in writing a hearing before the
Hearing Board. The Hearing Board shall appoint one of its members as the
hearing officer presiding over the hearing. The hearing shall be conducted
within ten business days of the date of the request, unless the owner or other
person entitled to possession waives the limitation or the city shows good
cause for such delay. The city shall retain possession of the vehicle pending
the hearing, unless the owner or other person claiming right of possession
posts a bond in an amount equal to the fines and fees accrued as of the date of
the hearing request, or $75, whichever is less. If the owner or person claiming
possession of the vehicle is unable to pay the amount of the bond, the hearing
shall be held within 72 hours of the date the request for hearing is received,
unless such person requests or agrees to a continuance.
      (1)   No less than five days prior to the date set for the hearing, the
Hearing Board shall notify the person requesting the hearing of the date, time
and place of the hearing. In the case of a hearing required to be held within
72 hours of the date of the request as provided in this division (D), the
person requesting the hearing shall be informed at the time of his or her
request, or as soon thereafter as is practicable, of the date and time of the
hearing.
      (2)   Any person who refuses or, except for good cause, fails to appear
at the time and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have conceded on
his or her and the owner’s behalf the validity of the impoundment.
      (3)   At the hearing, after consideration of the evidence, the hearing
officer shall determine whether the impoundment was valid and reasonable. Where
it has not been established that the impoundment was justified, an order
releasing the vehicle shall be entered. All fines and fees paid or amounts
posted as bond because of the impoundment of the vehicle shall be returned.
Where it has been established that the impoundment was justified, the board
shall uphold the impoundment and condition the release of the vehicle upon
payment of all fines and fees accruing thereto. If bond has been posted as
security for release of the vehicle, the bond shall be forfeited to the city.
Any fines or fees in excess of the amount of the bond posted shall be ordered
to be paid by the owner of the vehicle to the local government. The Board shall
furnish the owner or person appearing on the owner’s behalf with a copy of its
order.
      (4)   The hearing officer may consider a parking citation and any other
written report made under oath by the issuing officer in lieu of the officer’s
personal appearance at the hearing.
      (5)   An appeal from the hearing officer’s determination may be made to
the Campbell County District Court within seven days of the Board’s
determination. The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint and a
copy of the hearing officer’s order in the same manner as any civil action. The
action shall be tried de novo and the burden shall be on the local government
to establish that impoundment was justified. If the court finds that the
impoundment was justified, the owner shall be ordered to pay all fees and fines
accruing as of the date of judgment. If the court finds that the impoundment
was not justified, the local government shall be ordered to release the
vehicle, if applicable, and to return all fines and fees paid as a result of
the impoundment and the plaintiff shall be authorized to recover his or her
costs.
      (6)   The judgment of the District Court may be appealed to the Circuit
Court in accordance with the Rules of Civil Procedure.
(KRS 82.625) (Ord. 14-05, passed 8-20-2014) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.24 LIEN FOR FINES AND OTHER CHARGES.
   The city shall possess a lien on a motor vehicle impounded pursuant to this
chapter for all fines, penalties, and towing, handling, and storage charges and
fees imposed thereon. Such lien shall be superior to and have priority over all
other liens thereon.
(KRS 82.635) (Ord. 14-05, passed 8-20-2014)
§ 70.25 VEHICLE DEEMED ABANDONED; ESCHEAT TO CITY; DISPOSAL OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   If within ten business days of impoundment a motor vehicle impounded
by the city has not been claimed, or a hearing has not been requested pursuant
to this chapter, notice shall be mailed by certified mail to the registered
owner, if known, and lienholders of record, if any, affording the parties the
right within ten days from the date of notice to claim the vehicle or request a
hearing pursuant to this chapter. The notice shall state that, if no hearing is
requested, the vehicle shall be deemed abandoned unless the charges thereon are
paid within 45 days of receipt of notice.
   (B)   After 45 days from the date of notice required by division (A) above
an impounded motor vehicle shall be deemed abandoned and the vehicle shall
escheat to the City of Southgate.
   (C)   If the vehicle is judged suitable for use, the local government may
obtain a certificate of registration and ownership from the County Clerk
pursuant to KRS 186.020 and either use the vehicle for governmental purposes or
sell the vehicle at public auction to the highest bidder. If the vehicle is not
suitable for us, it may be declared surplus and sold for its scrap or junk
value.
(KRS 82.630) (Ord. 14-05, passed 8-20-2014)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation
in the city shall be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be fined in
an amount not less than $20 nor more than $100.
(KRS 189.990(1)) (1993 Code, § 40.99)
   (B)   Section
71.04. Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §
71.04 shall be fined in the amount of not less than $5 or more than $100.
   (C)   Sections
72.15 through
72.17. All other persons who occupy reserved parking spaces without a
handicapped license plate or permit shall be subject to a fine in an amount of
not less than $5, nor more than $100. Each day of violation shall constitute a
separate offense. Any fine to be paid as provided in this division (B) shall be
paid at the City Building, 122 Electric Avenue, Southgate, Kentucky 41071, the
fine to be paid within five days from the date of the notice of the violation.
(1993 Code, § 42.99)
   (D)   
Chapter 73, Schedule II. Any person, firm, or corporation violating any
provision of
Chapter 73, Schedule II, shall be fined an amount not less than $5, nor more
than $100, for each violation.
(Ord. 90-01, passed 4-18-1990; Ord. 01-01, passed 4-4-2001; Ord. 01-09, passed
12-5-2001; Ord. 14-05, passed 8-20-2014)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Street damage
   
71.02   Reckless driving
   
71.03   Golf carts
   
71.04   Capacity of trucks using collector streets
§ 71.01 STREET DAMAGE.
   No person shall operate any vehicle upon any street, public way, or
thoroughfare within the city in such a manner as to damage the same or do
injury thereto.
(1993 Code, § 40.06) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful to operate or drive a motor vehicle within the city
without due regard for the safety and rights of pedestrians, drivers, and
occupants of all other vehicles or so as to endanger the life, limb, or
property of any person while lawfully using the highways.
(1993 Code, § 40.08) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 GOLF CARTS.
   No person shall use or operate any golf cart, whether powered by battery,
electricity, or gasoline, on any street, road, or highway within the city.
(1993 Code, § 40.11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 CAPACITY OF TRUCKS USING COLLECTOR STREETS.
   (A)   No tanker of any type shall be permitted to travel on, traverse, move
on, or park on any collector streets and local streets located in the city if
the vehicle has a total capacity in excess of 3,000 gallons.
   (B)   A COLLECTOR STREET is defined as any public thoroughfare which serves
to collect and distribute traffic primarily from local to arterial streets.
   (C)   LOCAL STREETS are defined as roadways which are designed to be used
primarily for direct access to abutting properties and feeding into another
street system.
(1993 Code, § 40.12) (Ord. 90-01, passed 4-18-1990) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.03   Manner of parking
   
72.04   Prohibited stopping or parking
   
72.05   City may restrict parking as needed; posting of signs required
   
72.06   Temporary parking prohibitions
   
72.07   All-night parking
   
72.08   Parking on public off-street facility; municipally owned parking lots
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Snow emergencies
   
72.11   Standing in designated parking spaces for persons with disabilities
prohibited
   
72.12   Designation of parking spaces for persons with disabilities
   
72.13   Standing of trucks and certain other motor vehicles in residential
areas prohibited
   
72.14   Parking of vehicles in violation of tax or license laws prohibited
Parking Violations Enforcement Procedures
   
72.25   Local Government Parking Citation Act adopted by reference
   
72.26   False personation
   
72.27   Parking tickets; payment of fine
   
72.28   Owner's responsibility
   
72.29   Impoundment or immobilization of vehicles
   
72.30   Disposal of impounded vehicles
   
72.31   Parking Citations Enforcement Hearing Board
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. Any public right-of-way within the city not more than 15 feet in
width.
   MOBILE UNIT. Any device, whether or not attached to a motor vehicle, in,
upon, or by which any person or property is or may be transported or drawn upon
a public highway when attached to a motor vehicle.
   MOTOR TRUCK. Any motor propelled vehicle designed for carrying freight or
merchandise. It shall not include vehicles designed primarily for passenger
transportation or equipped with frames, racks, or bodies having a load capacity
of not exceeding 1,000 pounds.
   OVERSIZE VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, including but not limited to a truck or
truck-tractor; mobile unit; trailer; camper; or boat that exceeds 80 inches in
height, and/or exceeds 96 inches in width, and/or whose manufacturer's gross
weight exceeds 10,000 pounds.
   PLACE WITHIN THE CITY. Any public right-of-way within the city or any public
parking lot, or a private parking lot over which control to enforce parking or
traffic restrictions has been expressly granted to the city by the owner in
writing.
   SCRAPPING VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is used for the purpose of collecting,
gathering, or hauling any waste, or any old, abandoned or unwanted metal, wood,
glass, block, brick, rubber, plastic, vinyl, slate, building material, roofing
material, wrought iron, wiring, piping, copper, aluminum, steel, or any other
material or waste whether for resale, collecting, recycling, reuse or
discarding.
   SEMI-TRAILER. Any vehicle designed to be attached to and having its front
end supported by a motor truck or truck tractor intended for the carrying of
freight or merchandise and having a load capacity of over 1,000 pounds.
   STAND. To park or stop whether or not the propelling device is engaged and
whether or not the vehicle is attended.
   TRAILER. Any vehicle or mobile unit that is designed to be attached to and
have its front end supported by a motor vehicle, including but not limited to,
boat trailers, campers, utility trailers, or any trailer use for the purpose of
hauling materials or merchandise.
   TRUCK TRACTOR. Any motor propelled vehicle designed to draw and to support
the front end of a semi-trailer. The semi-trailer and truck tractor shall be
considered one unit.
(Ord. 21-11, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 72.02 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
(Ord. 21-11, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 72.03 MANNER OF PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any motor vehicle or other mobile unit to
stand in any place within the city with its left side to the curb other than on
streets designated for one-way traffic, or to stand more than six inches from
the curb or in such a manner as to impede the flow of traffic or the movement
of other standing vehicles. This provision does not prevent angular parking in
any area designated by white lines on the highway or street.
(Ord. 21-11, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 72.04 PROHIBITED STOPPING OR PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle or other mobile
unit to stop or park such vehicle except in a case of real emergency or in
compliance with the provisions of this traffic code or when directed by a
police officer or traffic sign or signal at any time in the following places:
      (1)   On the mainly-traveled portion of any roadway or on any other place
in the roadway where vehicles stand in any manner other than as specified in §
72.03;
      (2)   On a sidewalk;
      (3)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities;
      (4)   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway or
would block mail delivery to a residential mailbox;
      (5)   Within an intersection or on a crosswalk;
      (6)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking.
This does not apply to police officers when operating properly identified
vehicles during the performance of their official duties;
      (7)   Within 30 feet of any traffic signal or sign on the approaching
side;
      (8)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (9)   On any bridge, underpass, or approach thereto;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of any intersection or crosswalk;
      (11)   Within 20 feet of a railroad grade crossing;
      (12)   In any alley;
      (13)   On any controlled access highway;
      (14)   Within any highway tunnel;
      (15)   In an area between the roadways of a divided highway; or
      (16)   In any circular cul-de-sac or turnaround at the end of a street or
road.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area.
   (C)   The Mayor or his designee may, in the event of an emergency, order
that parking be prohibited in any place within the city during the time of such
emergency.
(Ord. 21-11, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 72.05 CITY MAY RESTRICT PARKING AS NEEDED; POSTING OF SIGNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   At any time, it shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle or other
mobile unit to stand in any place within the city in which the Mayor or the
Mayor's designee, by executive order, finds that parking is detrimental to the
public safety and, therefore, prohibited.
   (B)   Signs indicating the standing prohibition in the places described in
division (A) above shall be posted or the curbs painted yellow in such
designated places and no person shall be found to have violated division (A)
unless and until such posting.
   (C)   At any time, the Mayor or the Mayor's designee may permit vehicles or
other mobile units to stand in any place within the city where parking is
otherwise prohibited if the Mayor or the Mayor's designee, by executive order,
finds that the parking ban is detrimental to the public safety and, therefore,
not prohibited.
(Ord. 21-11, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 72.06 TEMPORARY PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   At any time, it shall be unlawful to permit any motor vehicle or other
mobile unit to stand at any place within the city where temporary signs
prohibit parking.
   (B)   The Mayor or his designee, for purposes of cleaning and maintaining
the streets or utilities thereupon or thereunder, or for purposes of parades or
community activities, or other purposes set forth by ordinance of City Council,
may order that the standing of any motor vehicle or other mobile unit be
prohibited in any place within the city and place temporary signs prohibiting
parking in those areas at least 24 hours prior to the time when such standing
is to be prohibited.
(Ord. 21-11, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 72.07 ALL-NIGHT PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any motor
vehicle or mobile unit on any of the public ways or streets of the city for a
period of 48 hours or longer.
   (B)   The Mayor or his designee, or Police Chief, may in the case of snow
emergencies grant an exception to the prohibition in division (A) above and
allow parking beyond 48 hours in certain designated parking lots.
(Ord. 21-11, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 72.08 PARKING ON PUBLIC OFF-STREET FACILITY; MUNICIPALLY OWNED PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on an area developed as a
public off-street parking facility. If at any time a vehicle is parked,
abandoned, or otherwise trespasses in violation of the provisions of this
section, the Police Department shall remove or cause to be removed the vehicle
in accordance with the provisions of §
72.25 et seq.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful, at any time, to permit any vehicle or other
mobile unit to stand in any municipally owned parking lot in violation of
regulations promulgated by the Mayor by executive order unless an exception has
been granted under §
72.07.
      (1)   The Mayor, by executive order, may promulgate any and all
regulations necessary for the safe, orderly, and efficient use of municipal
parking lots.
      (2)   Signs indicating prohibitions and regulations promulgated under
authority granted in this division (B) shall be posted and no person shall be
found to have violated said division (B) above unless and until such posting
occurs.
(Ord. 21-11, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any
provisions of this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of
vehicles, and the identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or
person in whose name the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie
responsible for the violation.
   (B)   It is the responsibility of all owners of vehicles to be aware of snow
emergency provisions and to be aware when the snow emergency is in effect.
Compliance with snow emergency provisions and protocols by vehicle owners is
mandatory and will be strictly enforced.
(Ord. 21-11, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 72.10 SNOW EMERGENCIES.
   The provisions of this section are applicable to all designated streets in
the city. Designated streets shall be promulgated by the Mayor by way of
executive order.
   (A)   No person shall cause or permit any vehicle to be located upon the
pavement or the right-of-way of any portion of any street indicated in division
(A) above at any time during which a snow emergency has been declared by the
Mayor, the Police Chief, or the Public Works Foreman.
   (B)   A snow emergency shall be declared at any time as it is determined
that falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain require restriction of vehicular
traffic for the purpose of plowing, clearing of snow or ice or at any time as
there are three inches or more of snow has fallen.
   (C)   The Public Works Foreman is hereby authorized and directed to install
at all points deemed necessary, signs containing the following or similar
information:
      "NO PARKING ON DESIGNATED STREETS WHEN SNOW EXCEEDS
      THREE INCHES OR DURING A DECLARED SNOW EMERGENCY."
   (D)   A vehicle parked on the pavement or right-of-way of any designated
street at the time the snow emergency is declared shall be removed from the
street within three hours if the snow emergency is declared between 6:00 a.m.
and 8:00 p.m. If declared between 8:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., the vehicle shall be
removed prior to 9:00 a.m. of that morning.
   (E)   All peace officers of the state are hereby authorized and directed to
cause all motor vehicles located upon any portion of the streets indicated in
divisions (C) and (D) above in violation of the terms of this section to be
removed from the streets.
      (1)   The city shall have a lien upon each of the vehicles so removed for
the cost of removal.
      (2)   The city or any person on its behalf may retain possession of the
vehicle until the cost of removal has been paid to the city.
   (F)   In any prosecution for a violation of the terms and provisions of this
section, it shall be presumed, in the absence of conclusive evidence to the
contrary, that the person to whom the motor vehicle is registered caused or
permitted the location hereof in the manner so indicated, and that person shall
bear responsibility for all costs, fines, penalties, and reimbursements owed to
the city for said violation.
(Ord. 21-11, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 72.11 STANDING IN DESIGNATED PARKING SPACES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to permit any motor vehicle or other mobile unit
to stand in any place within the city designated for standing by vehicles
transporting persons with a physical disability.
   (B)   Division (A) shall not apply to any motor vehicle displaying license
plates or other insignia issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky or any other
state or issued as set forth in §
72.12 to vehicles owned by or regularly transporting persons with a physical
disability.
(Ord. 21-11, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 72.12 DESIGNATION OF PARKING SPACES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   The Mayor or his/her designee may designate any place within the city
as restricted to standing of vehicles displaying license plates or other
insignia issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky or any other state to vehicles
owned by or regularly transporting persons with a physical disability.
   (B)   Any citizen may make application to the City Clerk for the Mayor or
the Mayor's designee to designate, and the Mayor or designee may designate, any
place within the city as restricted to standing of vehicles carrying license
plates or other insignia issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky or any other
state to vehicles owned by or regularly transporting persons with a physical
disability upon the following conditions:
      (1)   The applicant must reside at the property where the designated
parking spot is to be located and, if the applicant is not the owner of the
property, present written consent from the owner authorizing the application;
      (2)   The applicant must show proof of ownership of a license plate or
other insignia issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky to vehicles owned by or
regularly transporting persons with a physical disability; or the Mayor or
Mayor's designee must find, after a contested hearing, that the applicant meets
the requirements for such license plate but was denied the same due either to:
         (a)   Improper interpretation of the statutory guidelines; or
         (b)   Failure to own an automobile;
      (3)   The space requested must be directly adjacent to or as near as
possible to the applicant's permanent residence;
      (4)   The applicant's residence must lack adequate off-street parking;
      (5)   The space to be designated must not interfere with public safety;
      (6)   The applicant must agree to reimburse the city for its reasonable
costs of installation and maintenance of the space and accompanying sign as
well as record keeping thereon; and
      (7)   The applicant must agree to reapply for such designated space each
succeeding year during the month of January or lose such designation.
(Ord. 21-11, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 72.13 STANDING OF TRUCKS AND CERTAIN OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES IN RESIDENTIAL
AREAS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any persons to park an oversize vehicle on
any residential street, or public right-of-way, including but not limited to
alleys, for longer than one hour, except when loading or unloading. City-owned
vehicles or vehicles owned by other governmental entities or public utilities,
or vehicles owned by contractors of said governments or public utilities are
exempted from this provision while they are providing public maintenance in the
designated area.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park a bus or van, including school
buses and school vans, that has a seating capacity of more than 12 passengers
or that was originally designed for more than 12 passengers, in any residential
zone, area, or street on the public right-of-way for longer than one hour.
(Ord. 21-11, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 72.14 PARKING OF VEHICLES IN VIOLATION OF TAX OR LICENSE LAWS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park any motor vehicle or other mobile unit which is in
violation of any federal, state, county, city or other governmental entity's
tax or licensing statute, ordinance or regulation at any place within the city.
(Ord. 21-11, passed 10-20-2021)
PARKING VIOLATIONS ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
§ 72.25 LOCAL GOVERNMENT PARKING CITATION ACT ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of the Local Government Parking Citation Act as codified at
KRS 82.600 to 82.640 are hereby adopted, incorporated, and made applicable by
reference, as authorized in KRS 83A.060(5). within the corporate limits of this
city.
(Ord. 21-11, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 72.26 FALSE PERSONATION.
   It is unlawful for any person charged with violating any of the provisions
of this title relating to traffic to present a citation tag under a name other
than his or her correct and true name.
(Ord. 21-11, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 72.27 PARKING TICKETS; PAYMENT OF FINE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is authorized and directed to supply officers with
parking tickets, for the purpose of giving notice to persons violating any
provisions of this title or other laws or ordinances affecting the use of
streets. The notice may be given by delivering such ticket to the violator, or
by affixing it to the vehicle by means of which the violation occurred. The
parking ticket shall direct the offender when and where to appear to present
the ticket for payment.
   (B)   In the event the offender desires to contest the parking ticket, the
procedure as outlined by KRS 82.620 et seq. shall be followed.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to abridge the power of a
police officer to arrest any violator and take him or her into custody for
traffic violations where the penalty for its violation may result in
incarceration upon conviction by the District Court.
(Ord. 21-11, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 72.28 OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY.
   The violation of any section or provision of this title by means of a motor
vehicle shall be prima facie evidence that the violation was committed by or
with the authority or permission of the owner of the vehicle.
(Ord. 21-11, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 72.29 IMPOUNDMENT OR IMMOBILIZATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Any police officer may impound or immobilize any vehicle parked,
stopped or standing upon a street or public way in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter or the Kentucky Revised Statutes prohibiting
parking, stopping or standing in the location, manner or at the time the
vehicle is cited, or if such vehicle has any currently outstanding delinquent
parking tickets, or for any other lawful reason. Any person desiring to redeem
any such impounded or immobilized vehicle, in addition to the fines levied,
including payment of all outstanding fines levied for any parking or traffic
offense, shall also be liable for a fine and towing, handling and storage
charges which are reasonable. An impounded vehicle shall be released only upon
proof of ownership or right to possession.
   (B)   Any owner of an impounded motor vehicle shall have the right to
request a hearing to determine the validity of such impoundment under the terms
and conditions as set forth in KRS 82.625.
(Ord. 21-11, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 72.30 DISPOSAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   (A)   If within ten business days of impoundment, any motor vehicle so
impounded has not been claimed or a hearing has not been requested to determine
the validity of such impoundment pursuant to KRS 82.625, notice shall be mailed
by certified mail to the registered owner, if known, and lienholders of record,
if any, affording the parties the right within ten days from the date of notice
to claim the vehicle or request a hearing pursuant to KRS 82.625. The notice
shall state that, if no hearing is requested, the vehicle shall be deemed
abandoned unless the charges thereon are paid within 45 days of receipt of
notice.
   (B)   After 45 days from the date of notice required by division (A), an
impounded motor vehicle shall be deemed abandoned and the vehicle may be
disposed of as provided by state statute.
   (C)   If the vehicle is judged suitable for use, the city may obtain a
certificate of registration and ownership from the County Clerk, pursuant to
KRS 186.020, and either use the vehicle for governmental purposes or sell the
vehicle at public auction to the highest bidder. If the vehicle is not suitable
for use, it may be sold for its scrap or junk value.
   (D)   The city shall possess a lien on a motor vehicle impounded pursuant to
KRS 82.625 for all fines, penalties and towing, handling and storage charges
imposed thereon. The lien shall be superior to and have priority over all other
liens thereon.
(Ord. 21-11, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 72.31 PARKING CITATIONS ENFORCEMENT HEARING BOARD.
   All contested parking citations and impoundments shall be heard by the
Parking Citation Board, which is empowered to conduct such hearings pursuant to
KRS 82.605 to 82.640.
(Ord. 21-11, passed 10-20-2021)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The owner of any motor vehicle or other mobile unit who violates §
72.04(A)(8) shall be subject to a civil offense with a civil fine of $25.
Unless paid or appealed within seven days, said fine shall be increased to $50.
   (B)   The owner of any motor vehicle or other mobile unit who violates §
72.06 shall be subject to a civil offense with a civil fine of $10. Unless paid
or appealed within seven days, said fine shall be increased to $15.
   (C)   The owner of any motor vehicle or other mobile unit who violates any
other provisions of this chapter or
Chapter 71 shall be subject to a civil offense with a civil fine of $20. Unless
paid or appealed within seven days, said fine shall be increased to $40.
(Ord. 21-11, passed 10-20-2021)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Traffic directions
      
III.   Truck traffic
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate a motor vehicle upon
and over the streets and public highways of the city at a greater speed than 20
mph, except in safety zones where the speed limit is decreased and designated
on traffic signs and except, upon, and over Alexandria Pike and except Walnut
Street from Electric Avenue to the stop sign immediately preceding the City
Community Center, and the entirety of Linden Avenue, both of which shall have
speed limits of 15 mph.
(1993 Code, § 40.07) (Ord. 00-11, passed 10-18-2000) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   All vehicular traffic eastbound Temple Place at the intersection of
Temple Place and U.S. Route 27 shall be required to turn right on U.S. Route 27
southbound at all times.
   (B)   The city is hereby authorized and empowered to erect any and all signs
required to properly inform motorists of the aforementioned restriction on
eastbound traffic.
   (C)   This schedule shall become effective and be in force from and after
its passage and publication according to law.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 4-4-2001) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. TRUCK TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate a vehicle with
an axle combination greater than two axles on the following city streets:
 
Bluegrass Avenue, west of Electric Avenue
Joyce Avenue
West Walnut Street
Willow
 
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person operating a vehicle with an axle
combination greater than two axles and which is proceeding northbound or
southbound on U.S. 27 to enter and proceed on Temple Avenue.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person operating a vehicle with a GVWR of
44,000 pounds or more, or alternatively, any vehicle which classifies under 603
KAR 5:066 as a Class A, Class AA, or Class AAA, or greater, to drive on or
operate the vehicle on Moock Road.
   (D)   The city shall erect signage to alert drivers to the restrictions in
this section.
   (E)   Enforcement of this schedule shall be consistent with the enforcement
provisions of
Chapters 70 and
73.
(Ord. 13-06, passed 12-18-2013)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   NUISANCES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
95.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
96.   FAIR HOUSING
      
97.   RENTAL DWELLING LICENSES
      
98.   TREES
CHAPTER 90: NUISANCES
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Prohibitions; certain acts declared to be nuisances
   
90.03   Criminal activity as a nuisance
   
90.04   Suspension or revocation of occupational license
   
90.05   Immediate action and summary closure
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITATION OFFICER or CIVIL CITATION OFFICER. An officer authorized by §
32.54 of this Code of Ordinances to investigate alleged violations of city
ordinances that constitute civil offenses and to issue citations and notices of
violation for such violations.
   ENFORCEMENT BOARD or CIVIL CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. The administrative body
created by §§
32.50 through
32.53 of this Code of Ordinances.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any condition or use of public or private property or
premises, or of building exteriors which substantially annoy, injure or
endanger the comfort, health, repose or safety of the public which is
detrimental to the property of others, or which causes or tends to cause
substantial diminution in the value of other property in the neighborhood in
which such premises are located, or which creates a stench or odor noxious or
offensive to those in the neighborhood or passers-by on the public streets or
ways.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 1-18-2012)
§ 90.02 PROHIBITIONS; CERTAIN ACTS DECLARED TO BE NUISANCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or any person having
control or management of any public or private land within the city to allow a
public nuisance to exist or develop thereon.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to create, or to engage in conduct
that constitutes, a public nuisance.
   (C)   Without limiting the generality of the definitions set forth in §
90.01, the following conditions are declared to be public nuisances under the
provisions of this chapter:
      (1)   The overgrowth of weeds or grass on a property. In the context of
weeds, OVERGROWTH shall mean a circumstance in which weeds are ten inches in
height. In the context of grass, OVERGROWTH shall mean a circumstance in which
grass has grown to ten inches in height.
      (2)   Trees, bushes or other vegetation that interfere with public
sidewalks. The growth of tree branches is deemed to interfere with access to a
public sidewalk when the branches of a tree on private property protrude over a
public sidewalk at a height less than seven feet from the sidewalk.
      (3)   Trees, bushes, or other vegetation that interfere with public
rights-of-way. A tree, bush, other vegetation is deemed to interfere with
public rights-of-way when it, or any part of it, blocks all or any part of a
public right-of-way, or otherwise endangers the life, limb or property of
anyone using the public ways of the city. It shall be the responsibility of any
owner, tenant, or other person having charge of property within the city upon
which any tree, brush, or other object is located, to remove that tree, brush,
or other object if it is dead, and it interferes with, blocks the public right-
of-way, or otherwise endangers the life, limb, or property of anyone using the
public ways of the city, or interferes with the peaceful, quiet, enjoyment of
neighboring properties.
      (4)   Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful enjoyment
by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger that it will
catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents or insects, or
blow rubbish into any street, sidewalk or property of another.
      (5)   Dumping. It shall be unlawful for anyone to dump garbage, ashes,
paper, or other refuse upon any public or private grounds within the city.
      (6)   Criminal activity, as defined in §
90.03.
      (7)   Open burning without a permit. No person shall burn refuse, trash,
lumber, leaves, grass, straw, or any other combustible material in any street,
alley, lot, yard or other place within the city unless he or she has first
secured a written permit to do so, for a limited period of time, from the Fire
Chief. This provision shall not apply to the use of a fire pit on private
property, so long as the fire pit is not larger than 48 cubic feet.
      (8)   Loud and unnecessary noise. No person shall make, continue or cause
to be made or continued any loud, unnecessary, or unusual noise which either
annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or
safety of others within the limits of the city. Without limiting the generality
hereof, the following are specifically deemed to be in violation of this
division (C)(8):
         (a)   The playing of any radio, phonograph, or other musical
instrument in any manner or with the volume, particularly during hours between
11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose
of any person in any dwelling or in any of the yard thereof, hotel or other
type of residence.
         (b)   The conducting, operating or maintaining of any garage or
service station in any residential area so as to cause loud or offensive noises
to be emitted therefrom between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
   (D)   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public
nuisance, those offenses which are known to the common law and in the statutes
of Kentucky as public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against
as is provided in this chapter or in accordance with any other provisions of
law.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 1-18-2012) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CRIMINAL ACTIVITY AS A NUISANCE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CRIMINAL ACTIVITY NUISANCE. Any building or premises where law
enforcement officers have, on more than three occasions in the preceding 12-
month period, cited, arrested, or executed a court issued search warrant, or a
criminal citation, or an arrest warrant for nuisance crimes.
      CRIMINAL NUISANCE CRIMES.
         (a)   Any of the following behaviors or crimes or activities:
            1.   Harassment, as defined in KRS 525.070 through 525.080.
            2.   Public intoxication, as defined in KRS 525.100 or KRS 222.202.
            3.   Disorderly conduct as defined in KRS 525.055 or KRS 525.060.
            4.   Murder, manslaughter, or reckless homicide as defined in KRS
507.020, 507.030, 507.040 or 507.050.
            5.   Rape, sodomy, sexual abuse, sexual misconduct, indecent
exposure, or unlawful use of an electronic device to induce a minor to engage
in sexual activities, as defined in KRS 510.010 through 510.155.
            6.   Assault, menacing, wanton endangerment, terroristic
threatening, criminal abuse, stalking, or disarming a police officer, as
defined in KRS 508.010 through 508.160.
            7.   Burglary or criminal trespass, as defined in KRS 511.010
through 511.090.
            8.   Criminal mischief, as defined in KRS 512.010 through 512.060.
            9.   Arson, as defined in KRS 513.010 through 513.040.
            10.   Theft, as defined in KRS 514.010 through 514.090.
            11.   Receiving stolen property as defined in KRS 514.110.
            12.   Robbery as defined in KRS 515.010 through 515.030.
            13.   Prostitution, promoting prostitution, or permitting
prostitution as defined in KRS 529.010 through 529.110.
            14.   Distribution of obscene matter promoting sale of obscenity or
voyeurism, as defined in KRS 531.010 through 531.110.
            15.   Sexual exploitation of minors, as defined in KRS 531.300
through 531.370.
            16.   Drug possession or trafficking, as defined in KRS 218A.010
through 218A.1444.
            17.   Noise violations as defined elsewhere in the Code of
Ordinances and/or the Zoning Code.
         (b)   To qualify, all nuisance activities must be based on either:
            1.   Personal observation of a police officer, or Civil Citation
Officer; or
            2.   A determination by a police officer, either after an
investigation or following a sworn statement of a person who personally
witnessed the alleged incident that the alleged nuisance activity(s) did, in
fact, occur.
            3.   Personal observation and sworn statement of a resident.
      PERSON IN CHARGE. Any person with actual or constructive possession of a
property, including, the owner of the property and/or landlord. When the owner
of the property is a non-resident landlord, then he or she shall be the PERSON
IN CHARGE.
      PERSONS ASSOCIATED WITH THE PROPERTY. Any person, who on the occasion of
a nuisance activity has entered, patronized, visited, or resides as a tenant on
the property.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the person in charge, including, but not
limited to the owner of residential, commercial, or vacant property located
within city limits to allow his or her property to be used as a site for any
criminal nuisance crimes after having received notice pursuant to this code
that the property has been used for the commission of a criminal activity by
persons associated with the property.
   (C)   A public nuisance exists when law enforcement officers have issued a
criminal citation, made an arrest, or executed a court-issued search warrant
against a person associated with the property for activities or behavior on the
premises involving criminal nuisance crimes on the same premises, on three or
more occasions in any 12-month period.
   (D)   Within 30 days after criminally citing or arresting persons for
activities that involve criminal nuisance crimes the Police Department shall
notify the Civil Citation Officer in writing of the specific violation, the
address of the property on or in which the violations or search warrants
occurred, and the circumstances of the violation or warrants. The Civil
Citation Officer shall then notify the person in charge of the property, i.e.,
the owner, by certified mail return receipt requested, of the criminal activity
which occurred and the date on which it occurred.
   (E)   If the Civil Citation Officer receives information that criminal
citations or arrests involving criminal activity nuisance crimes were issued or
that court-issued search warrants were executed for the same offenses at the
same location at least three times within 12 months of a previous incident, he
or she shall send a notice of violation to the property owner describing the
nuisance and requesting that the nuisance be abated.
   (F)   If a property owner or tenant reports the issuance of a citation, an
arrest, or the execution of a court-issued search warrant at his or her
property before the Civil Citation Officer otherwise discovers that the
incident has occurred, such citation, arrest, or execution of a search warrant
will not be considered a nuisance for purposes of this chapter.
   (G)   Should the criminal activity not be abated in accordance with the
terms of the notice of violation, a civil citation shall be issued to the owner
and/or occupants of the premises.
   (H)   In addition to other remedies set out in this chapter, upon failure of
the property owner to request a hearing before the Civil Code Enforcement Board
and to abate the nuisance, or the failure of the property owner to abate the
nuisance pursuant to orders of the Enforcement Board, the Civil Citation
Officer is authorized to order the closing and vacating of the premises or
portions thereof to abate the criminal activity nuisance. Such closing and
vacating shall be for a period of time as the Civil Code Enforcement Board
reasonably may direct, but in no event may the closing and vacating be for a
period of more than one year from the date of closing. If the premises consist
of multi-unit dwellings or mixed uses and the criminal activity nuisance has
occurred solely within a certain unit or units, the authority to close and
vacate is restricted to the unit or units in which the criminal activity
nuisance has occurred and does not extend to any other unit in the premises,
unless the activity has occurred in or about the common areas of the unit, in
which case, the entire unit may be subject to closure. Upon the failure of the
property owner to comply with an order to close and vacate, the Civil Code
Enforcement Board may prohibit the furnishing of utility service to the
premises and may use any other legal remedy available.
   (I)   It shall be a defense to a violation of this section that the owner
has instituted an eviction proceeding against the offending tenant or occupants
of the offending premises within 30 days of the date of the notice of violation
and the owner completes the eviction within 60 days of the date of commencement
of the action or as soon thereafter as court procedures allow.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 1-18-2012) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE.
   The Mayor may, upon receipt of a nonappealable final order, as defined by §
32.50(D), finding a violation of this chapter, or upon receipt of a final court
order upholding a final order finding a violation of this chapter, direct that
the property owner’s occupational license for the property be suspended or
revoked until such time as the nuisance is abated.
(Ord. 16-10, passed 10-19-2016)
§ 90.05 IMMEDIATE ACTION AND SUMMARY CLOSURE.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action to abate a nuisance when there is reason to believe that the violation
presents a serious threat to the public health, safety and welfare, or if in
the absence of immediate action, the effects of the violation will be
irreparable or irreversible.
   (B)   The city through the City Attorney, may also initiate a summary
closure proceeding in the Campbell Circuit Court. Such an action shall be based
on evidence showing that the criminal nuisance activities exist, or have
occurred on the property and that such action is necessary to avoid a threat to
the public health, welfare, or safety. Proceedings to obtain an order of
summary closure shall be governed by the provisions of applicable Kentucky law
for obtaining temporary restraining orders. In the event of summary closure,
the city is not required to comply with the notification procedures set forth
in §§
90.04 and
90.05. As part of any summary closure order, the Circuit Court may revoke or
suspend the occupational license of any person conducting any business on or
about the property where the criminal activity nuisance exists.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 1-18-2012)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   The violation of any provision of this chapter is a civil offense and shall
be enforced pursuant to
Chapter 32 of this code.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 1-18-2012; Am. Ord. 16-10, passed 10-19-2016)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Removal of animal excrement
Animal Services
   
91.03   Powers of animal services
   
91.04   Adoption and mandatory spay/neuter
   
91.05   Dog/cat licensing
   
91.06   Rabies vaccination
   
91.07   Humane treatment of animals
   
91.08   Animals to be under control
   
91.09   Wild and exotic animals
   
91.10   Management of community cat population
Commercial Animal Establishments
   
91.11   Definitions
   
91.12   Licensing provisions
   
91.13   Inspections
   
91.14   Minimum standards
Fowl or Chickens
   
91.25   Definitions of fowl
   
91.26   Keeping or maintaining of fowl
   
91.27   Regulations applicable to fowl
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. Any animal left more than 48 hours without a person checking on the
condition of the animal and providing food and potable water or not providing a
timed feeder/waterer. Any animal left on private property without the owner’s
consent or deserted or dumped on public property or roadways.
   ADEQUATE FOOD. Wholesome food suitable for the species provided at suitable
intervals in a sanitary manner in quantities sufficient to maintain good health
in an animal, considering its age and condition.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER, DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Adequate shelter shall be provided to
any animal(s), with the exception of livestock, that remain outside more than
one continuous hour per day. The shelter must be suitable for the species, age,
and condition of the animal. The shelter shall:
      (1)   Be structurally sound, with a solid, level, raised floor, enclosed
sides or walls, and must be properly ventilated. The shelter shall be sanitary
and weather/waterproof. Suitable drainage must be provided so that water is not
standing in or around the structure;
      (2)   Be small enough to allow the animal’s body heat to warm the
interior of the structure but
be large enough to allow the animal to stand up, turn around, and lie down
without touching the walls;
      (3)   Be made from suitable, appropriate, materials to prevent harm or
injury to the animal(s). Unsuitable materials include, but are not limited to,
lean-tos, metal drums, plastic drums, cardboard or other disposable boxes,
vehicles, or the area beneath exposed porches or exposed decks;
      (4)   Provide access to shade from direct sunlight and regress from
exposure to inclement weather conditions, hot or cold, but which does not
exacerbate existing weather conditions;
      (5)   Placed in an area offering the best available protection from
inclement weather, hot or cold;
      (6)   Have floors that are constructed in a manner that protects the
animal’s feet and legs from injury, and that, if of mesh or slatted
construction, do not allow the animal’s feet to pass through the openings of
the floor;
      (7)   Cardboard, fiberboard, or any other structure that fails to protect
an animal from adverse atmospheric conditions shall not be considered proper
shelter.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER, LIVESTOCK. Adequate shelter shall be provided to all
livestock. The shelter shall be either natural or constructed, and must provide
relief from the elements. Accepted natural shelters are natural windbreak from
tree lines or other low areas, and natural shade under trees. Accepted
constructed shelters are barns, three-sided shelters, lean-tos, and
widescreens. Constructed shelters should be free of hazards likely to cause
injury.
   ADEQUATE VENTILATION. Proper air flow and circulation by mechanical,
natural, or other means that provide a constant exchange of air, with fresh,
clean, oxygenated air replacing the contaminated, dirty, un-oxygenated air
within a confined space.
   ADEQUATE WARMTH. Sufficient, comfortable degree of temperature of the
confined space or containment area that will not lower nor raise the average
body temperature as appropriate for the species.
   ADEQUATE WATER. A supply of clean, fresh, potable water provided at suitable
intervals or on a continual basis in a sanitary manner suitable for the
species, condition, and age of the animal. The supply shall be in sufficient
amounts to maintain good health in the animal, and in a suitable container
secured to prevent turnover.
   ANIMAL. Any live vertebrate creature.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person designated by the manager of animal
services who is qualified to perform the duties under the laws and ordinances
of the state and the county and all peace officers. An ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER
shall be a law enforcement officer for the purposes of animal control only.
   ANIMAL SERVICES. The department of the county which is designated by the
Fiscal Court to enforce the provisions of this subchapter and to operate the
animal shelter.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises operated or approved for operation by the
Fiscal Court for the purpose of impounding and caring for animals held under
the authority of this subchapter.
   AUCTION. Any place or facility where animals are regularly bought, sold, or
traded except for those facilities otherwise defined in this subchapter.
   BREEDER. Any person who intentionally or accidentally causes the breeding of
more than one litter per female cat or dog in a 12 month period; makes more
than one cat or dog available for breeding purposes in a 12 month period; or
offers for sale, trades, receives any compensation or gives away more than one
litter of dogs or cats in a 12 month period, with the exception of a litter of
dogs or cats taken to the animal shelter.
   COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any pet shop, boarding or breeding kennel,
grooming facility, auction, petting zoo, zoological park, circus, performing
animal exhibit, breeder, or any person engaged in the business of breeding,
buying, letting for hire, training for a fee, or selling at retail or
wholesale, any species of animal for profit.
   COMMUNITY CAT. Any free roaming cat that may be cared for by one or more
residents of the immediate area who is/are known. A community cat may or may
not be feral. Community cats are distinguished from other cats by being
sterilized and ear-tipped. Community cats that have been ear-tipped,
sterilized, and vaccinated under the trap-neuter-return program are exempt from
licensing, stray, and at-large provisions of this subchapter.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any animal potentially threatening to humans and not
ordinarily a companion animal of humans that may or may not be considered non-
indigenous to the country.
   DAY. For the purposes of this subchapter, a 24 hour period shall constitute
a day.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Animals that are habituated to live in or about the
habitations of human beings, and which are kept, cared for, sheltered, fed, or
harbored for use as a pet or as a source of food, raw materials or income.
   DWELLING. The house or other structure in which a human being lives.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any animal not indigenous to the country.
   EXTREME WEATHER CONDITIONS. When weather conditions are such that a heat
advisory, excessive heat advisory, severe thunderstorm warning, flash flood
warning, blizzard warning, winter storm warning or wind chill advisory is
issued by the National Weather Service.
   GROOMING FACILITY. A commercial establishment where animals are bathed,
clipped, or otherwise groomed.
   HUMANE SOCIETY. Any person or organization operating from a fixed site and
taking in or accepting stray or unwanted animals.
   IMPOUNDED. Having been received into the custody of animal services or any
authorized representative thereof.
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses or any other animals of the
bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, or equine species.
   MANAGER or MANAGER OF ANIMAL SERVICES. The person appointed by the judge/
executive and approved by the Fiscal Court as the chief animal control officer.
   OWNED CAT. Any cat that is a companion to a person, is regularly fed and
sheltered in that same person’s habitation. All owned cats are required to be
in compliance with licensing, stray, and at-large provisions of this
subchapter, while community cats that have been ear-tipped, sterilized, and
vaccinated under the trap-neuter-return program are exempt.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping, harboring, or sheltering one or more
animals.
   PARAPHERNALIA, ANIMAL FIGHTING. Any bite sticks, weighted chains and/or
collars, spars, animal tread mills, slat mills, carpet mills, fighting pens,
permanent or temporary, injectable or ingestible drugs and supplements used to
enhance fighting, spring poles, or weight pull harnesses and equipment.
   PERSON. All natural persons, corporations, partnerships, firms,
associations, governmental bodies, agencies, and other entities.
   PET. Domesticated animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
   PET SHOP. Any person engaged in the business of breeding, buying, selling at
retail or wholesale, including fish, of any species for profit-making purposes,
except farming operations that breed, buy, or sell at retail pursuant to and in
conjunction with their agricultural use and shall not be considered pet shops
for purposes of this subchapter.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal which:
      (1)   Molests passers-by or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Attacks people or other animals;
      (3)   Damages public or private property;
      (4)   Is repeatedly at large;
      (5)   Makes noise in an excessive, continuous or untimely manner for more
than 15 minutes without provocation;
      (6)   Creates unsanitary conditions;
      (7)   Disturbs the peace, comfort or health of persons in any other
manner; or
      (8)   A home, residence, building, shed, yard, property, or other
establishment that contains excessive amounts of feces and/or urine, or exudes
a foul odor.
   REASONABLE GROOMING. To maintain an animal’s coat to prevent conditions
which inhibits normal walking or the elimination of body waste or which is
medically harmful to the animal.
   RESTRAINT. Enclosed in an area by a form of fencing designed to control the
movement of the animal or secured by a leash, chain, or cable tie-out. An
animal shall be deemed to be retrained if it remains on the premises of its
owner or if it is accompanied by a responsible person and is under that
person’s immediate control.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Any animal, other than a hunting dog released for the
purpose of hunting, that is off the property of the owner, custodian, possessor
or harborer and is not restrained. Community cats that have been ear-tipped,
sterilized, and vaccinated under the trap neuter-return program shall not be
considered to be running at large.
   STRAY. Any animal, other than a hunting dog released for the purpose of
hunting, that is running at large. Community cats that have been ear-tipped,
sterilized, and vaccinated under the trap-neuter-return program shall not be
considered stray for purposes of this subchapter.
   TRAP-NEUTER-RETURN (“TNR”). The method of managing community cats by
humanely trapping, altering, vaccinating, ear-tipping, returning the community
cats to the location where it was trapped where the community cats will be
provided with long-tenn care by one or more caretakers.
   VETERINARIAN. Any personal licensed by the state to practice veterinary
medicine.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL CLINIC. Any establishment maintained and operated by a
licensed veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis, and treatment of diseases and
injuries of animals.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL.
      (1)   Any animal which constitutes a physical threat to human beings or
domestic animals which, due to a known propensity to endanger life, by an
unprovoked assault or bite which has resulted in serious bodily harm;
      (2)   Any animal which, when unprovoked, approaches in a terrorizing
manner, any person in an attitude of attack upon streets, sidewalks or any
public grounds or places;
      (3)   Any animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to
unprovoked attacks which cause injury or endanger the safety of human beings or
domestic animals;
      (4)   Any animal which bites to the extent of causing severe injury and
assaults or otherwise attacks human beings or domestic animals;
      (5)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose
of fighting with animals;
      (6)   It shall be prima facie evidence that an animal is vicious if the
animal bites a human being or domestic animal more than once in the same
attack;
      (7)   Exceptions. An animal shall not be deemed vicious solely because:
         (a)   It bites, attacks, or menaces:
            1.   Any person assaulting its owner;
            2.   Any person or animal who has tormented or abused it.
         (b)   It is otherwise acting in defense of any attack from a person or
other animal upon its
owner or another person;
         (c)   It is protecting or defending its young or the young of any
other animal;
         (d)   Its breed or assumed/known component of its breed.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal not domesticated or not ordinarily tame and which is
by nature an animal that lives apart from human beings.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 2-15-2023)
§ 91.02 REMOVAL OF ANIMAL EXCREMENT.
   (A)   Any person or owner of an animal shall remove any excrement deposited
by his or her animal upon public walks, streets, recreation areas, or the
private property of another absent the consent of the owner or occupant of the
property.
   (B)   Any excrement not removed in violation of division (A) above is
declared to be a public nuisance.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to guide dogs under the control of a
blind person.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 2-15-2023) Penalty, see §
91.99
ANIMAL SERVICES
§ 91.03 POWERS OF ANIMAL SERVICES.
   (A)   The manager, assistant manager, and all animal control officers of
animal services shall have the powers of a peace officer for the purposes of
enforcing animal control laws or ordinances in the county if they otherwise
qualify as a peace officer under the laws of the state.
   (B)   All animal control officers of animal services shall comply with KRS
61.300.
   (C)   Whenever it is necessary for animal services to make an inspection in
order to perform any duty or enforce any provision of this subchapter or any
other applicable state statute, they are hereby empowered to enter property at
a reasonable time and inspect the premises. Animal services shall have the
power only if consent of the owner or occupant of the property is freely given,
a search warrant is obtained or such exigent circumstances exist that a
warrantless, nonconsensual search is required.
   (D)   All animals of any age running at large, as defined in this
subchapter, and found in the county, may be picked up by animal services and
impounded in the animal shelter. If animal services can reasonably return the
animal they may do so and may issue a uniform citation to the owner. Community
cats that have been ear-tipped, sterilized, and vaccinated under the trap
neuter-return program may be released back into the community and are not
subject to impoundment under this section.
   (E)   All animals of any age which have bitten a human being may be picked
up by animal services and impounded in the animal shelter for any applicable
quarantine period. In the event an animal is impounded for a quarantine period,
the owner shall be responsible for a reasonable fee for board, administration
and medical attention during the impoundment.
   (F)   Any animal that is off the property of its owner and displays behavior
as defined in §
90.01, and an animal control officer or law enforcement officer has reason to
believe the animal poses a threat to the safety of the general public, the
animal shall be taken into custody by animal services and the owner shall be
issued a uniform citation for harboring a vicious animal. The animal shall
remain in the custody of the county until the accused is given a hearing before
a district court judge. Should that judge find probable cause for a charge of
harboring a vicious animal, the court shall order temporary forfeiture of the
animal to county animal services pending final disposition of the case.
   (G)   Any dog required to be licensed, but found unlicensed, may be
impounded for a minimum period of five days unless it is earlier claimed by its
owner. If the dog is not claimed by its owner within five days of impoundment,
the dog may then be offered for adoption or may be euthanized at the discretion
of the manager of animal services. Any person claiming or reclaiming a dog
pursuant to this section shall pay a reasonable fee for board, administration,
and medical attention for the dog during impoundment and obtain proper
licensing, if applicable, from animal services. Animal services shall make
reasonable efforts to locate and inform the owner of any dog that the dog has
been impounded.
   (H)   Any animal involved in an alleged violation of KRS 525.125, 525.130,
525.135, 525.137, or §
90.07 may be confiscated by any animal control or peace officer and held in a
humane manner. Upon taking custody of an animal pursuant to KRS 525.125,
525.130, 525.135, 525.137, or §
90.07, animal services shall give notice of the seized animal by posting a
notice at the location where the animal is taken into custody or by delivering
notice to a person residing at the property. The animal shall remain in the
custody of the county until the accused is given a hearing before a district
court judge. Should that judge find probable cause for a charge under KRS
525.125, 525.130, 525.135, 525.137, or §
90.07, the court shall order temporary forfeiture of the animal to county
animal control.
      (1)   Upon a plea or finding of guilt, the animal shall become the
property of the county. The person convicted for violating KRS 525.125,
525.130, 525.135, 525.137, or §
90.07, shall pay all reasonable expenses related to the incidents of cruelty,
including investigation, disposition, veterinary costs, and all costs of
maintaining or disposing of the animal incurred from the date of confiscation
up to and including the date of permanent forfeiture.
      (2)   Upon a dismissal of the charge or a finding of innocence, the
animal shall be immediately returned to the owner. If the owner does not re-
claim the dog within three days of the dismissal or acquittal, the animal may
be offered for adoption or may be euthanized at the discretion of the manager
of animal services.
   (I)   When any licensed animal or animal whose owner is known, is impounded
in the animal shelter, animal services shall notify the owner by certified
mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address, by personal
delivery, or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the notice, within three business days of
impoundment.
   (J)   The registered owner shall reclaim the animal within three days of the
receipt of notice of impoundment. Any licensed animal or animal whose owner is
known which is not reclaimed by its owner within three days of receipt of the
notice of impoundment may then be offered for adoption or may be euthanized at
the discretion of the manager of animal services. Any person claiming or
reclaiming an animal pursuant to this section, shall pay all associated fees
for impound, board, administration and medical attention during the impoundment
and any outstanding civil citation fees.
   (K)   An animal control officer or law enforcement officer may choose to
issue a warning citation in lieu of a uniform citation if a violation is minor
in nature. Violations eligible for the issuance of a warning citation include,
but are not limited to, first contact by any officer for: failure to vaccinate
a pet against the rabies virus, failure to license a pet, creating a public
nuisance, animal running at large, the lack of reasonable grooming, or
veterinary care where the animal has not suffered harm. The warning citation
shall allow up to 14 days to correct the violation, except violations of public
nuisance or running at large shall be corrected immediately. If a violation is
serious in nature, a uniform citation may be issued.
   (L)   An animal control officer or law enforcement officer may choose to
issue a civil citation in lieu of a uniform citation for violations listed in
division (K) of this section where multiple violations of this subchapter
exist, or where personal injury occurred, or property was damaged or destroyed,
or a previous warning has been issued. The civil citation shall allow up to 14
days to correct the violation and pay the associated fee. Violations of public
nuisance or running at large shall be corrected immediately. If a violation is
serious in nature, a uniform citation may be issued.
   (M)   Animal control officers are authorized to place, upon request, live-
capture animal traps on private or public property to trap and remove stray, at
large, unwanted, or nuisance domestic animals. It shall be unlawful for any
person other than an animal control officer or his or her designee to remove an
animal from the trap or to damage, destroy, move or otherwise tamper with the
trap. Any person requesting a live-capture trap must own the subject property
and shall be responsible for any lost, stolen, damaged, or otherwise altered
traps.
   (N)   All impound, boarding, administration, and medical fees will be set
annually by the manager of animal services, with approval of the Fiscal Court.
   (O)   All other fines and fees will be set annually by the manager of animal
services and the city adopts in full the uniform animal citation penalties set
by the manager of animal services.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 2-15-2023) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 ADOPTION AND MANDATORY SPAY/NEUTER.
   (A)   Prior to the adoption of any animal from animal services an
application must be completed by the person wishing to adopt the animal. The
application is designed to determine the prospective owner’s ability to care
for the animal. Any person wishing to adopt an animal who has been issued a
uniform citation for inhumane treatment of animals will not be able to adopt.
   (B)   County animal services is not obligated to sell or transfer possession
of any animal in their custody.
   (C)   All dogs and cats adopted from the animal shelter must be surgically
altered to prevent breeding.
   (D)   The fee for adoption of animals shall be set annually by the manager
of animal services, with the approval of Fiscal Court.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 2-15-2023) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 DOG/CAT LICENSING.
   (A)   The owners of all dogs and cats, or those who harbor or maintain dogs
and cats in the unincorporated or incorporated areas of the county, shall have
each and every dog and cat licensed, or as an option microchipped and
registered to the county animal services in accordance with this subchapter and
applicable state statutes.
   (B)   The annual license fee for each dog and cat shall be set annually by
the manager of animal services, with the approval of the Fiscal Court. Dog
licenses shall be due each year on or before July 1.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 2-15-2023) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 RABIES VACCINATION.
   (A)   All dogs, cats, and ferrets, four months of age and older, shall be
vaccinated for rabies and revaccinated for rabies at the expiration of the
immunization period as certified by a veterinarian.
   (B)   Any dog or cat reclaimed or adopted from the animal shelter must have
a valid rabies vaccination or purchase a rabies voucher prior to release.
   (C)   Any dogs or cats found not to have been vaccinated for rabies, whether
discovered by a veterinarian or by other means, must be vaccinated within 14
days of the date of discovery.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 2-15-2023)
§ 91.07 HUMANE TREATMENT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to abandon any animal.
      (1)   In the event that an animal is found abandoned, such animal may be
taken by an animal control officer or peace officer, and impounded at the
animal shelter and there be confined in a humane manner. Such animal, if taken
from private property shall be kept for not less than the prescribed period in
accordance with the procedures set forth in §
90.03 of this subchapter, or for any longer period required by law, regulation,
or medical necessity. In the event an animal is so abandoned, the owner or
person, if any, who he or she has charged with the animal’s care, shall be
subject to a citation or civil penalty for any violation of this section.
      (2)   Any animal found not under restraint without a license or
vaccination tag, or any animal found in a condition that requires immediate
veterinary care, shall be presumed to be abandoned, and shall be seized.
      (3)   Notice of seizure of an abandoned animal from private property
shall be posted on the premises from which the animal was seized, which notice
shall clearly state the address and telephone number for the animal shelter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to inhumanely treat any animal,
including, but not limited to, the deprivation of necessities, beating,
mutilating, torturing, killing, overloading, overworking, or otherwise abusing
any animal. Nothing herein shall prevent animal services from humanely
euthanizing any animal.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit, display or keep any
animal without providing adequate food, adequate water, adequate shelter or
medical attention.
   (D)   Any dog which is chained, tied or otherwise connected by means other
than a leash being held by a person shall be provided no less than ten feet of
chain, rope, cable or other similar material, and shall be situated in a manner
that prevents injury, strangulation, or entanglement. Dogs that are chained,
tied, or otherwise connected by means other than a leash being held by a person
shall be properly fitted with and wearing non-choke, buckle-type collar or
harness made of leather, nylon, or similar material, and shall not be tethered
by use of a choke collar, or on any collar too small for the size and age of
the animal. The tether must be attached to the dog’s collar or harness and not
directly to the dog’s neck, or of such unreasonable weight as to prevent the
animal from moving about freely. Dogs shall be not tethered in any unsafe area,
and must be at least ten feet from the edge of any public road or sidewalk.
Dogs shall not be tethered during extreme weather conditions, or while the dog
is sick or injured. Dogs under the age of five months may not be tethered
unattended, and multiple dogs should be tethered separately.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep an animal within the
passenger compartment of an automobile without adequate ventilation in the
summer or adequate warmth in the winter. No person shall enclose any animal in
the trunk of an automobile. An animal control or police officer shall rescue
any animal confined in such a manner. No person shall use any automobile as a
temporary or permanent shelter for animal(s).
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stage, cause, instigate,
permit, observe, or attend any dog-fight, cock-fight, bull-fight, or other
combat between animals or between animals and humans. Animals altered for
fighting purposes and animals with scarring from previous fighting may be
considered evidence of unlawful animal combat.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person(s) to own, harbor, or be in
possession of animal fighting paraphernalia.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person to set free any hare, rabbit,
gerbil, domesticated rat, guinea pig, other pet rodent, snake, lizard, turtle,
other pet reptile, or other animal for the purpose of violating any provision
of this subchapter.
   (I)   No performing animal exhibition, circus or horse show, shall be
permitted in which the animals are induced or encouraged to perform through the
use of chemical, mechanical, electrical or manual devices in a manner which
will cause or is likely to cause physical injury or suffering. All equipment
used on animals in such shows shall fit properly and be in good working order.
   (J)   Any person, who as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes a domestic
animal, shall stop at once and render assistance as may be possible and shall
immediately report such injury or death to the animal’s owner, if known, or to
animal control or any police officer.
   (K)   No person shall expose any poisonous substance, whether mixed with
food or not, so that the same shall be likely to be eaten by a domestic animal,
provided that the substance shall not be unlawful for a person to expose on his
or her own property, poisonous substance, or to animal control or any police
officer.
   (L)   No person shall give away any live animal as a prize or for inducement
to enter any contest, game or other competition or as an inducement to enter
into any business agreement, whereby the offer was for the purpose of
attracting the trade, except that it shall not be unlawful to give away small
fish, not to exceed four inches, as a prize.
   (M)   It shall be unlawful for any person to color, stain, dye or otherwise
change the natural color of any live animal or to offer such colored animals
for sale in the county, except that the mane and tail of an equine may be
changed pursuant to accepted practices in showing the equine.
   (N)   It shall be unlawful to sell baby chicks, ducks or rabbits under the
age of two months in quantities less than six.
   (O)   It shall be unlawful to place an animal in the rear of a truck without
securing the animal so that the animal cannot jump out.
   (P)   It shall be unlawful to possess more than six domestic (cats and/or
dogs) or exotic animals or a combination thereof in one’s residential dwelling
if that said dwelling is within 100 feet of a neighbor.
   (Q)   It shall be unlawful to allow dogs, cats, or other domestic animals to
remain outdoors during extreme weather conditions. Dogs, cats, or other
domestic animals must be moved indoors or to an area that provides protection
from the extreme weather condition.
   (R)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use a muzzle that causes injury
to a dog, interferes with its vision, respiration, or ability to drink. It
shall be unlawful to muzzle any dog unless doing so is reasonably calculated to
prevent injury to people or animals.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 2-15-2023) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 ANIMALS TO BE UNDER CONTROL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any animal owned or
harbored by him or her, to run at large. When livestock are running at large,
animal control or the police shall make reasonable efforts to notify the owner
as soon as possible. If reasonably possible and feasible, the owner of the
livestock shall be notified prior to the actual capture and impoundment of the
livestock.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to own or possess, harbor, or maintain a vicious
animal.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to own or possess an animal that conducts itself
in such a manner as to constitute a public nuisance.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to allow a female dog to be exposed during estrus
(in season, in heat) so as to attract male dogs. Every female that is in season
shall be confined in a building or secure enclosure in such a manner that such
female dog cannot come in contact with a male dog except for planned breeding.
Females shall not be restrained by tie out, chain, rope, cable, leash, or
otherwise restrained and left unattended while in season.
   (E)   Community cats that have been ear-tipped, sterilized, and vaccinated
under the trap neuter-return program shall not be considered to be running at
large under this division.
   (F)   Pursuant to KRS 258.215, a hound or other hunting dog which has been
released from confinement for hunting purposes shall be deemed to be under
reasonable control of its owner or handler while engaged in or returning from
hunting, and, if a hunting dog becomes temporarily lost from a pack or wanders
from actual control or sight of its owner or handler, the owner or handler
shall not be deemed to be in violation of the provisions of this section as a
result of the dog’s having become temporarily lost or having wandered from
immediate control or sight of the owner or handler.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 2-15-2023) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 WILD AND EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to sell, own, harbor or keep as a pet, a wild or
exotic animal, not indigenous to the country, unless the animal has been
approved for sale or retention by appropriate state and federal governmental
agencies and any required permits have been obtained.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to sell, own, harbor or keep as a pet, a wild
animal native to the country, unless the animal has been approved for sale or
retention by appropriate state and federal governmental agencies and any
required permits have been obtained.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 2-15-2023)
§ 91.10 MANAGEMENT OF COMMUNITY CAT POPULATION.
   (A)   A trap-neuter-return program will be developed by animal services to
address the issues presented by feral and other community cats, recognizing
that there are caretakers of community cats.
   (B)   A trap-neuter-return program will permit animal services to engage in
the trapping of community cats for the purpose of sterilization, vaccination,
ear-tipping for easy identification, and providing of other necessary medical
care for community cats.
   (C)   A caretaker providing for a community cat(s) may offer certain
necessities on a regular/ongoing basis, including, but not limited to: proper
nutrition of food and water, and medical care. If medical care is unavailable
or too expensive, a caregiver should contact animal services for assistance to
prevent harm to a community cat.
   (D)   If the requirements of division (C) above are met, the caretaker is
exempt from licensing and other provisions of this subchapter that apply to
owned cats.
   (E)   Anyone providing necessities to community cats shall adhere to the
management standards listed below to reduce reproduction and prevent the
attraction of wildlife, vermin, or insects. Failure to adhere to standards
shall be deemed a public nuisance.
      (1)   Food must be presented in a container and not thrown on the ground.
      (2)   Uneaten food must be picked up after one hour.
      (3)   Remove your trash and keep the area clean.
      (4)   Encourage cats to stay away from people such as by feeding away
from streets and public sidewalks.
      (5)   If providing shelter, ensure that shelters are insulated, blends in
with the surrounding, and free of standing water and moisture.
      (6)   Provide rabies vaccinations and spay/neuter services to prevent
reproduction or contact animal services.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 2-15-2023) Penalty, see §
91.99
COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 91.11 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions provided in §
90.01 of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply to the
provisions of this subchapter, unless the context clearly indicates or requires
a different meaning.
   OWNER or OPERATOR. Any person, group of persons, partnership, or any entity
owning or operating a commercial animal establishment. This definition does not
apply to veterinarians as long as animals on the premise are there for
treatment only.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 2-15-2023) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.12 LICENSING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Licensing. All commercial animal establishments shall obtain and
maintain a valid commercial animal establishment license in order to operate a
commercial animal establishment within the county.
   (B)   The commercial animal establishment licenses shall be issued by the
county Fiscal Court through animal services. An application to obtain a
commercial animal establishment license shall be completed by each commercial
animal establishment. A separate application must be completed for each
location in the case of commercial animal establishment chains and/or
franchises. The premises for which a license is being granted shall be
inspected by animal services. Animal services shall issue a commercial animal
license establishment license to the applicant upon payment of the required fee
and passing of the required inspection.
   (C)   The commercial animal establishment license shall be valid for a
period of one year. Licenses issued between July 1, 2019 and June 30, 2020 will
be extended until January 31, 2021. After January 31, 2021 all licenses are due
for renewal in the month of February.
   (D)   The commercial animal establishment license shall be renewed annually.
   (E)   The annual fee for a commercial animal establishment license shall be
set by the manager of animal services and approved by the Fiscal Court.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 2-15-2023) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.13 INSPECTIONS.
   The manager or any animal control officer shall be permitted and empowered
to make an inspection of any commercial animal establishment within the county,
and shall further be permitted to take photographs of commercial animal
establishments during the inspection. The inspection shall take place upon the
verbal request of the manager or assistant manager or any animal control
officer, during regular business hours of the commercial animal establishment.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 2-15-2023) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.14 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   (A)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide an adequate
environment for each animal which is compatible with the general health and
welfare of the animal.
   (B)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide adequate space for
each animal. Each cage or enclosure shall be large enough for the animal to
stand, sit, lie and turn around without touching the walls or ceiling of the
cage or enclosure, or another animal.
   (C)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide adequate
sanitation. Each cage or enclosure shall be maintained as follows:
      (1)   Indoor containment.
         (a)   Cages or enclosures containing dogs or cats, of any age, shall
be cleaned with hot water, disinfectant and detergent daily (including
holidays), or more frequently if conditions require additional cleaning or
disinfecting to keep animals out of contact with feces or urine. Litter boxes
shall be cleaned daily (including holidays) and the litter changed when needed.
         (b)   Cages or enclosures containing birds shall contain a perch and
shall be cleaned with hot water and disinfectant at least twice weekly or more
frequently if conditions require additional cleaning.
         (c)   Cages or enclosures containing small animals beside a dog or cat
shall be cleaned with hot water and disinfectant at least twice weekly or more
frequently if conditions require additional cleaning.
         (d)   Cages or enclosures must be designed and constructed of suitable
materials so that they are structurally sound and kept in good repair. Cages or
enclosures must be constructed and maintained so that they:
            1.   Have no sharp points or edges that could injure the animal(s);
            2.   Are safe for their designed use;
            3.   Contain the animal(s) securely;
            4.   Keep other animals from entering the enclosure;
            5.   Enable the animal(s) to remain dry and clean;
            6.   Provide animals with easy and convenient access to clean food
and water.
      (2)   Outdoor containment. If dogs are contained outdoors, their cage or
enclosure must be designed and constructed of suitable materials so that they
are structurally sound and kept in good repair. Cages or enclosures must be
constructed and maintained so that they:
         (a)   Have no sharp points or edges that could injure the animal(s);
         (b)   Are safe for their designed use;
         (c)   Contain the animal(s) securely;
         (d)   Keep other animals from entering the enclosure;
         (e)   Enable the animal(s) to remain dry and clean;
         (f)   Provide animals with easy and convenient access to clean food
and water;
         (g)   Provide protection and shelter from extreme weather conditions;
         (h)   Provide sufficient shade from direct rays of sun;
         (i)   Have floors that are constructed in a manner that protects
animal(s) feet and legs from injury, and that, if of mesh or slatted
construction, do not allow the animals feet to pass through any openings in the
floors;
         (j)   All surfaces in contact with animals shall be cleaned and
sanitized daily (including holidays), and sanitized.
      (3)   Minimum standards for housing.
         (a)   All commercial animal establishments shall adhere to the
following minimum space standards for enclosures housing dogs, based upon the
individual dog’s height and weight:
 
Canine category Size/length/weight     Square footage required Housing size
                                                               equivalency
Miniature       0-19" or up to 10 lbs  4 square feet           2 feet by 2 feet
Small           20-29" or up to 20 lbs 8 square feet           2 feet by 4 feet
Small/medium    30-39" or up to 35 lbs 12 square feet          3 feet by 4 feet
Medium          40-49" or up to 50 lbs 20 square feet          4 feet by 5 feet
Medium/large    50-59" or up to 75 lbs 30 square feet          5 feet by 6 feet
Large           60" and up to 76 lbs   36 square feet          6 feet by 6 feet
 
         (b)   Violations of the minimum standards for housing of dogs pursuant
to this section shall not apply to veterinary establishments where restricting
a dog’s movements is medically necessary.
   (D)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide adequate
nourishment and water for each animal as follows:
      (1)   Each animal shall be given fresh food and water daily, including
holidays.
      (2)   Soft food shall be available to those animals unable to chew
standard dry food.
      (3)   Potable water shall be available to each animal at all times.
      (4)   Food and water containers shall be washed and disinfected daily.
   (E)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide proper medical
treatment from a licensed veterinarian for sick or injured animals.
   (F)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide an adequate room
(cage) temperature for the general health and welfare of the animal, suitable
to that species’ general health and welfare.
   (G)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide for general
cleanliness of its establishment, and shall not permit an insect or rodent
infestation.
   (H)   All commercial animal establishments shall obtain any necessary
licenses or permits from an appropriate state or federal agency to offer for
sale any exotic or wild animal.
   (I)   All commercial animal establishments must be sufficiently ventilated
at all times when animals are present to provide for animal health and well-
being, and to minimize odors, drafts, ammonia levels, and moisture
condensation.
   (J)   All commercial animal establishments keeping animals indoors must be
well lit to permit routine inspection and cleaning of the facility, and
observation of animals.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 2-15-2023)
FOWL OR CHICKENS
§ 91.25 DEFINITIONS OF FOWL.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the term FOWL means any hen, female
chicken, chick, rooster, cockerel, duck, turkey, pheasant or any of several
other usually gallinaceous birds.
(Ord. 22-04, passed 8-3-2022)
§ 91.26 KEEPING OR MAINTAINING OF FOWL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to keep, maintain, or raise any fowl for sale or
profit in the city.
   (B)   It shall be lawful to keep, or maintain up to six chickens, hens, or
chicks in the city for personal, family or home use, provided that said
chickens, hens, or chicks are kept in secured, outside enclosures located in
the rear yard of the homeowner's residential lot, and which comply with the
regulations in §
91.27.
   (C)   Additionally, any person raising, keeping, or maintaining fowl agrees
as part of the licensing process that the city, its officers or Code
Enforcement Officer, or Animal Control are permitted at all times to inspect
the premises for the purpose of determining whether they are maintained in a
humane, safe and sanitary condition and whether all of the provisions of this
subchapter are observed.
   (D)   Additionally, all fowl must be kept from running at large and must be
maintained in a securely closed fenced-in enclosure located on the residential
property.
   (E)   These regulations may be enforced against any property owner who
consents to or permits the harboring of fowl on property by any tenant,
resident, and/or guest.
(Ord. 22-04, passed 8-3-2022)
§ 91.27 REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO FOWL.
   (A)   License required. Any property owner wishing to harbor fowl on his or
her residential property must first acquire a license from the City Clerk or
his or her designee.
      (1)   The fee for this license shall be a one-time fee of $25.
      (2)   Prior to the issuance of each license, the City Clerk shall notify
each abutting property owner in writing that the license applicant has applied
to harbor fowl on his or her property. The abutting property owners shall have
ten days to file a written objection to the application.
      (3)   The City Clerk may deny the license application if the applicant
cannot meet the criteria set forth in the Code of Ordinances, or if an abutting
property owner objects to the application.
   (B)   Appeal. A denial of a license application may be appealed to City
Council within 30 calendar days.
   (C)   Any property owner licensed to harbor fowl shall adhere to the
following requirements:
      (1)   The fowl enclosure shall be maintained in a safe and humane fashion
and in a sanitary condition, free from offensive odors and accumulation of
excrement and feed. All outside feed must be stored in a secured container so
as not to attract vermin or predators.
      (2)   The fowl enclosure shall be a covered and secured pen or enclosure
so that the fowl cannot escape and predators cannot access the pen or
enclosure. Such pen or enclosure must have secure sides and a secure top. If
the pen or structure has no bottom secured to the sides, then the sides must be
embedded two feet in the ground and secured by concrete anchors to a depth of
three feet at each corner.
      (3)   The fowl enclosure must be at least 25 feet from the nearest
neighbor's property line and no closer than four feet to the owner's
residential structure.
      (4)   No roosters, cockerels, pheasants, ducks, turkeys or other
gallinaceous birds (other than provided in division (B)(5) below) shall be
harbored, maintained, or kept on any property in the city.
      (5)   Only female chickens, female chicks or hens are permitted, and no
more than six female chickens or hens shall be allowed per residential property
parcel.
      (6)   Fowl permitted by the license shall not be harbored for a
commercial purpose.
      (7)   Any enclosure or pen housing the fowl shall be located in the rear
of the owner's residential structure, and shall not be within view of the
public right of way.
      (8)   Any deceased fowl must be immediately removed and properly disposed
of by the owner within 24 hours of discovery. Animal remains shall not be
deposited in the trash for regular garbage pick-up.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall create or cause to be created an application for
a license and a form license to be used in furtherance of this section.
   (E)   The City Clerk or his or her designee may revoke any license issued
under this section upon finding that:
      (1)   The license holder is not in compliance with the provisions of
division (C); or
      (2)   The harboring of fowl substantially interferes with the neighbors'
enjoyment of their property through the emission of foul odors, noise, or
attraction of predators or vermin onto neighboring properties or public rights
of ways; or
      (3)   The license holder's harboring of fowl endangers the safety of
neighboring properties; or
      (4)   The license holder's harboring of fowl has caused property damage
or personal injury to other persons or properties.
   (F)   The revocation of a license may be appealed to the City Council within
30 calendar days of the service of the revocation decision.
   (G)   The property owner shall upon revocation of the license immediately
remove the fowl and any related structures or appurtenances within seven
calendar days.
(Ord. 22-04, passed 8-3-2022)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person failing to comply with the following sections is guilty of
a violation of this section and, in addition to proof of compliance where
applicable, on a first offense shall be fined for a first offense no less than
$100; on a second or subsequent offense shall be fined no less than $125. Each
day constitutes a new and separate violation. The amount of said fines and fees
may be annually adjusted and set by the manager of animal control services
uniform animal citation penalties.
      (1)   §
90.02 failing to comply with the removal of animal excrement.
      (2)   §
90.03(M) tampering with animal services traps.
      (3)   §
90.04 failing to comply with mandatory spay/neuter requirements.
      (4)   §
90.05 failing to license or renew a license for a dog or cat.
      (5)   §
90.06 failing to vaccinate against the rabies virus.
      (6)   §
90.08(A) animal running at large.
      (7)   §
90.08(A) livestock running at large. Owner must, in addition to fines,
reimburse county for all reasonable fees incurred in capturing, impounding,
boarding, and necessary medical services.
      (8)   §
90.08(C) owning an animal which is a public nuisance.
      (9)   §
90.08(D) failing to confine a female dog in heat.
      (10)   §
90.09 failing to have permits for wild or exotic animals.
      (11)   §
90.10(E) caregiver failing to adhere to standards for community cats.
      (12)   §
90.12 commercial animal establishment failing to obtain license.
      (13)   The above fines for animals running at large shall be reduced to
$85 for a first offense or $100 for a second offense by the manager of animal
control services if the owner grants permission to the county animal shelter to
spay or neuter the animal prior to reclaiming the animal.
   (B)   Any person violating the following sections shall be guilty of a class
B misdemeanor and be fined not more than $250, or up to 90 days in the county
jail, or both. Each day constitutes a new and separate violation.
      (1)   §
90.07 first offense of violations related to the humane treatment of animals.
      (2)   §
90.08 first offense of owning or possessing a vicious animal. In addition to
any penalties imposed, the court shall order one of the following:
         (a)   That as a condition of retaining the animal it must be
microchipped, spayed/neutered, and registered as a vicious animal with animal
services. It must be confined in a secure, locked enclosure, designed to
prevent digging out or escape and prohibits the entry of small children. The
enclosure must have a sign warning of a vicious animal which is visible from
the roadway or any public access. The enclosure must be inspected and approved
by animal services. The animal may only leave the enclosure for veterinary
care, at which time it must be muzzled on a leash no longer than three feet and
under the direct control of the owner. The owner must notify animal services in
the event the animal is loose, unconfined, has attacked an animal or humane
being or is deceased; or
         (b)   The court may order the animal euthanized.
      (3)   §
90.19 being a habitual violator. Any humane society, or commercial animal
establishment guilty of being a habitual violator is subject to license
revocation.
   (C)   Any person violating the following sections shall be guilty of a class
A misdemeanor and be fined not more than $500, or up to one year in the county
jail, or both. Each day constitutes a new and separate violation.
      (1)   §
90.07 second or subsequent offense relating to the humane treatment of animals.
      (2)   §
90.08 second or subsequent offense relating to owning or possessing a vicious
animal. If the violation involves the same animal, the court shall order the
animal immediately euthanized.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 1-18-2012; Ord. 16-10, passed 10-19-2016; Ord. 16-13,
passed 12-7-2016; Ord. 17-02, passed 2-1-2017; Ord. 20-08, passed 8-19-2020;
Ord. 22-04, passed 8-3-2022; Ord. 23-01, passed 2-15-2023)
CHAPTER 92: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Abandoned vehicles; generally
   
92.03   Wrecked vehicles
   
92.04   Prohibited repairs
   
92.05   Public nuisance
   
92.06   Disposition
   
92.07   Removal
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is not a street or
highway.
   STREET OR HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
public way when any part is open to use by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power, other than by human power, designed
to travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or slides and to
transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without
limitation, automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles, tractors, buggies,
wagons, and campers.
(1993 Code, § 41.01)
§ 92.02 ABANDONED VEHICLES; GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person shall leave any vehicle at any place within the city for any
time and under any circumstances that indicates abandonment. A vehicle left
parked in any one place on the public right-of- way for a period of seven days
or more, without having been moved a minimum of 50 feet within that span of
time, shall be deemed abandoned, and subject to removal by the City Police
Department, including towing at the owner’s expense.
   (B)   Junked vehicles are not permitted to be parked on the city public
rights-of-way for any period of time. Junked vehicles parked on the city right-
of-way shall be deemed abandoned and subject to immediate removal by the City
Police Department, including towing at the owner’s expense. For the purpose of
this section, a JUNKED VEHICLE is one which is inoperative or reasonably
appears to be inoperative, wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled, or
discarded. Conditions which indicate that a vehicle is junked include, but are
not limited to, extensive rust, or without all properly inflated tires,
windshields or windows, major chassis components, brake lights, or without any
other vehicle component required by law to operate safely on the streets, or
with expired license plates or registration tags, or without a valid license
plate or registration tag.
      (1)   A junked vehicle located on the public rights-of-way shall be
deemed a public nuisance
      (2)   It shall be a parking violation for any person or persons to cause
or allow a junked vehicle to be placed, located, maintained or to exist upon
the public right-of-way.
      (3)   Any junked vehicle located on the public right-of-way is subject to
being removed by the City Police Department, including towing at the owner’s
expense.
   (C)   It shall be a parking violation to park or store upon a public right-
of-way any vehicle which is not capable of being driven under its own power or
which cannot be legally operated on public ways. Such vehicles shall be deemed
abandoned and subject to immediate removal by the City Police Department,
including towing at the owner’s expense.
   (D)   Vehicles which are parked on a public right-of-way but become
temporarily inoperable while parked due to unforeseen circumstances such as a
dead battery, or mechanical issues, or that are disabled by virtue of a
collision while the vehicle is parked, or due to a temporary flat tire arising
while the vehicle is parked, must be moved within three days of the event
giving rise to the temporary incapacity. Failure to move the vehicle within
that three days shall subject it to removal by the City Police Department,
including, towing of the vehicle at the owner’s expense.
(1993 Code, § 41.02) (Ord. 08-05, passed 5-21-2008; Ord. 20-01, passed 2-5-
2020) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 WRECKED VEHICLES.
   No person shall leave any partially dismantled, wrecked, or junked vehicle
on any street or highway within the city.
(1993 Code, § 41.03) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 PROHIBITED REPAIRS.
   All repairs upon all automotive vehicles of all kinds and varieties,
including motor scooters, motorcycles, and go-carts, are prohibited upon the
public streets, alleys, or easements of the city.
(1993 Code, § 41.04) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The making of repairs upon automotive vehicles is declared to be a public
nuisance for the reason that repairs have a tendency to block and impede
traffic upon the streets of the city. Also, repairs tend to cause the streets
of the city to become littered, cluttered, and oil- and grease-stained, all to
the detriment of the citizens of the city generally.
(1993 Code, § 41.05) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 DISPOSITION.
   No person in charge or control of any property within the city, whether as
an owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise, shall allow any partially
dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked, junked, abandoned, or discarded vehicle to
remain on his or her property longer than seven days. No person shall leave any
vehicle on any property within the city for a longer time than seven days. This
section shall not apply with regard to a vehicle in an enclosed building, a
vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place and
manner when necessary to the operation of the business enterprise, or a vehicle
in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful place and
manner by the city.
(1993 Code, § 41.06) (Ord. 08-05, passed 5-21-2008) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 REMOVAL.
   Any member of the City Police Department is authorized to remove or have
removed any vehicle left at any place within the city, which vehicle reasonably
appears to be in violation of this chapter or to be lost, stolen, or unclaimed.
The vehicle shall be impounded until lawfully claimed or disposed of and shall
be removed and disposed of in conformity with the state statutes.
(1993 Code, § 41.07)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   The violation of any section contained in this chapter is a civil offense
and shall be enforced pursuant to
Chapter 32 of this code.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 1-18-2012; Am. Ord. 16-10, passed 10-19-2016)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
93.01   Street or sidewalk opening permit
   
93.02   Information necessary for a permit
   
93.03   Street or sidewalk opening permit issuance
   
93.04   Additional applications
   
93.05   Restoration and inspection
   
93.06   Permanent bond
   
93.07   Emergency openings
   
93.08   Bond amounts
   
93.09   Sidewalk concrete
   
93.10   Sidewalk width
   
93.11   Variances
   
93.12   Sidewalk construction permit
   
93.13   Curb opening permit
   
93.14   Driving over curbs
   
93.15   Blocking of streets under construction
   
93.16   Street obstructions
   
93.17   Street obstruction permit
   
93.18   Removal of obstructions
   
93.19   Repair of sidewalks
   
93.20   Only grass may be grown between streets and sidewalks
   
93.21   Sweepings and debris on sidewalks
   
93.22   [Reserved]
   
93.23   [Reserved]
   
93.24   [Reserved]
   
93.25   Containers
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Utility street and sidewalk repairs, see
Ch. 52
§ 93.01 STREET OR SIDEWALK OPENING PERMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any opening in the surface
or pavement of any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of the city unless a
permit has been issued in accordance with the regulations of this chapter.
   (B)   A restoration of the opening is to be made in accordance herewith.
(1993 Code, § 31.01) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 INFORMATION NECESSARY FOR A PERMIT.
   Any person desiring to make any opening in the surface or pavement of any
street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of the city shall make an application
with the City Clerk on the form provided therefor. The application shall state
the name of the applicant; the name of the street, alley, sidewalk, or public
way of the city proposed to be opened; the kind of existing pavement thereon;
the purpose of the proposed opening; and the exact size where located.
(1993 Code, § 31.02)
§ 93.03 STREET OR SIDEWALK OPENING PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   The City Clerk may, in his or her discretion, refer any application to the
City Engineer. The City Clerk or the City Engineer may issue a permit to make
the opening described in the application, which permit shall state the name of
the applicant; the name of the street, alley, sidewalk, or public way; the kind
of pavement thereon; the purpose of the proposed opening; and the size where
located when, in the opinion of the City Clerk, the size and location are
practicable.
(1993 Code, § 31.03)
§ 93.04 ADDITIONAL APPLICATIONS.
   If the applicant desires to open more street area than the original
application provides, an additional application shall be required.
(1993 Code, § 31.04)
§ 93.05 RESTORATION AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   All persons to whom permits have been issued shall immediately, upon
completion of the work connected with the opening, be required to restore the
surface or pavement of the street, alley, sidewalk, or public way by removing
from the opening all surplus dirt; and the opening shall be backfilled with
bank run or pea gravel properly compacted and surfaced with the same type of
surface material as the original surface in which the opening or cut was made.
The restoration shall be done under the supervision or control of the
Department of Public Works, and no other person shall have the authority to do
any work or restoration.
   (B)   Upon the completion of resurfacing by the applicant or the replacement
of the excavation and surface material, the applicant shall notify the City
Clerk; and the City Clerk will instruct the Public Works Foreman to inspect the
street replacement and report his or her findings to the City Clerk. If the
Public Works Foreman reports that the replacement is satisfactory, the City
Clerk shall surrender and cancel the bond hereinafter provided. If the Public
Works Foreman reports that the work is unsatisfactory, the City Clerk shall
inform the applicant in what respects the work is unsatisfactory and shall give
notice to the applicant that the work must be completed within five days. If
the applicant fails or refuses to make the necessary repairs in the period
provided, the city shall direct and order the repairs made and charge the cost
against the bond posted by the applicant. The excess of the bond, if any, after
the repairs have been paid shall be returned to the applicant.
(1993 Code, § 31.05) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 PERMANENT BOND.
   In the case of utilities which are making excavations and removing street
surfaces periodically, a permanent bond may be posted and filed with the City
Clerk as hereinafter stated, rather than posting bond in each individual case,
if the utilities so desire.
(1993 Code, § 31.06)
§ 93.07 EMERGENCY OPENINGS.
   In unforeseen emergencies and where the necessity of the public requires, it
shall be allowed and permitted that an opening be made; however, in any case,
an application for a permit shall be made by the person making the opening not
later than 10:00 a.m. on the next business day following the emergency opening.
(1993 Code, § 31.07)
§ 93.08 BOND AMOUNTS.
   (A)   The bond to be posted by each applicant for permission to open a
street and remove a portion of the surface material shall be as follows:
      (1)   Where the hole in the street will not exceed ten square feet of
surface area, the bond amount shall be $200;
      (2)   Where the hole in the street will not exceed 25 square feet in
surface area, the bond amount shall be $300;
      (3)   Where the hole in the street will exceed 25 square feet in surface
area, the bond amount shall be $400; and
      (4)   For a permanent bond to be posted by utilities and contractors, the
amount shall be $500.
   (B)   In the case of a permanent bond, if the amount is reduced by reason of
the ordering of repairs to a street by the city and the cost is charged against
the bond, the person posting the permanent bond will be required to reimburse
the bond by the amount of the deduction made from time to time by reason of the
reduction.
(1993 Code, § 31.08) (Ord. 97-02, passed 4-2-1997)
§ 93.09 SIDEWALK CONCRETE.
   All sidewalks laid or constructed, either by original construction or
reconstruction within the city, shall be constructed of cement concrete.
(1993 Code, § 31.09) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.10 SIDEWALK WIDTH.
   Sidewalks shall be made to conform in width with the other walks in the
vicinity, but in no case shall any walk be less than four feet in width.
(1993 Code, § 31.10) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.11 VARIANCES.
   The Building Inspector is authorized in certain specific cases to grant a
permit for the repair of an existing walk to be of the same material as the old
sidewalk; however, the repair shall conform as nearly as possible to the
provisions of this chapter, and all work so accomplished shall be subject to
the approval of the Building Inspector.
(1993 Code, § 31.11)
§ 93.12 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION PERMIT.
   Any permit allowing a property owner to construct or reconstruct a sidewalk
within the city shall be issued by the Building Inspector in accordance with
the plans and specifications set forth.
(1993 Code, § 31.12)
§ 93.13 CURB OPENING PERMIT.
   No curbing within the city shall be cut for gutter openings without a permit
first being obtained from the City Clerk, and the work shall be done under the
supervision of the Public Works Foreman. No curbing shall be cut into a greater
depth than one inch above street level, and no cut shall have a greater width
than six inches.
(1993 Code, § 31.19) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.14 DRIVING OVER CURBS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle whatsoever over the
curbing of any street that is improved with combined cement curbs and gutters
within the city.
(1993 Code, § 31.20) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.15 BLOCKING OF STREETS UNDER CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   While under contract with the city, it shall be lawful for any
contractor engaged in the construction or repair of any street, alley, or other
public way within the city to block the street, alley, or other public way and
to place thereon proper signs and signals for the purpose of showing that the
street, alley, or other public way is closed to travel during the time as the
proper performance of his or her work shall require.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tear down or otherwise remove
any sign or signal or to drive any animal or vehicle over any street, alley, or
other public way after it has been properly blocked.
(1993 Code, § 31.21) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.16 STREET OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to close, encumber, or obstruct
any street or other public way of the city; however, this shall not apply to
the use of streets or other public ways for building purposes when a proper
building permit and obstruction permit have been obtained, for purposes of
performing utility or other work in the right of way when a proper street
opening permit and obstruction permit have been obtained, or for purposes of
storage of bulk solid waste containers or portable storage containers when a
proper permit has been obtained pursuant to §
93.25.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, "obstruct" or "obstruction" means to
unreasonably impede or inconvenience the passage of the public and/or emergency
vehicles on the streets, alleys, or sidewalks. Temporary impediments such as
garbage collection by garbage or recycling trucks and deliveries of food or
merchandise where the public way, or a portion thereof, is blocked for less
than one hour are not obstructions under this chapter.
   (C)   Any member of the City Police Department is authorized to remove or
have removed any vehicle, equipment, cart, wagon, or any other obstruction that
reasonably appears to be in violation of this section. The item shall be
impounded until lawfully claimed or disposed of in conformity with the state
statutes.
(1993 Code, § 31.22) (Ord. 19-05, passed 4-17-2019; Ord. 19-13, passed 10-2-
2019)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.17 STREET OBSTRUCTION PERMIT.
   (A)    Except as provided in §
93.25, any person obstructing a street, sidewalk, or other public place shall
first obtain from the City Clerk a permit to use and occupy the street or other
public place.
   (B)   An application for a street obstruction permit shall be made in
writing to the City Clerk. It shall state the name of the contractor or other
responsible party, the location of the right-of-way to be obstructed, the
character of the proposed work, and the length of time for which the use and
occupation of the street is desired.
   (C)   The use and occupancy of any street shall not be granted for a longer
time than four months. It may be extended for good cause. The use of any street
or alley shall not exceed one-third of its width unless specifically authorized
by the city. The use of any street or alley for building purposes shall not be
permitted except in the front of the premises to be improved. No materials
shall be prepared in the street which can be prepared on the premises. The
gutters shall not be obstructed. No obstruction shall be permitted to remain on
a public street or alley during the night without a red light displayed during
the hours of darkness.
   (D)   All surplus materials shall be removed immediately upon the completion
of the work, and the street shall be put in good repair.
   (E)   No person shall fence in or otherwise obstruct any sidewalk, street,
or public place.
   (F)   Permits for the placement of bulk solid waste containers and portable
storage containers shall be governed by the provisions of §
93.25.
   (G)   A street obstruction permit shall not be required for temporary street
impediments lasting no more than one hour in duration at any given location,
such as garbage pickup by garbage and/or recycling trucks; deliveries;
emergency repairs by public utilities; or blockage of all or part of the street
for less than one hour for ordinary maintenance work, such as tree trimming or
utility meter checks or repairs.
(1993 Code, § 31.23) (Ord. 19-05, passed 4-17-2019; Ord. 19-13, passed 10-2-
2019)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.18 REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTIONS.
   It shall be illegal for anyone not properly authorized to remove an
impediment or structure obviously located to block traffic from a street within
the city under the process of repair or construction or blocked for any other
necessary reason, such as the repair of sewer lines, gas lines, and water
mains, or to drive any vehicle over a street blocked to traffic for the purpose
of facilitating repairs or construction.
(1993 Code, § 31.24) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.19 REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person owning lots or real estate
abutting on any sidewalk in the city to maintain, at his or her own expense and
in a suitable state of repair, the sidewalk, so far as it abuts upon his or her
lots or real estate. Any property owner with improper or defective sidewalks
now existing or laid abutting his or her property is ordered to repair or
replace the sidewalks and to place them in good condition and repair. The Mayor
shall designate one or more city employees, who shall be authorized to direct,
by written notice, that any property owner with defective or out-of-repair
sidewalks repair them within a period of time set by ordinance.
   (B)   The following sidewalk conditions are determined to be contrary to the
general welfare and require the sidewalk blocks in the condition to be repaired
or the condition to be alleviated, as directed by the city:
      (1)   Any block having a crack or cracks in it more than five-eighth of
an inch wide;
      (2)   Adjoining blocks or portions thereof whose edges differ vertically
by more than five-eighth of an inch;
      (3)   Blocks that have holes in them five-eighth of an inch or more in
diameter or are cracked or broken so that pieces are missing or loose;
      (4)   Blocks having depressions, reverse cross-slope (sloping away from
the street), or below curb grade so as to impound mud or water;
      (5)   Blocks having a cross-slope in excess of three-fourth of an inch
vertical per one-foot horizontal;
      (6)   Blocks that cause an abrupt change in the longitudinal grade of the
sidewalk;
      (7)   Blocks that are raveled, i.e., the surface is severely cracked; and
      (8)   Blocks containing stumps, private sign, posts, or other
unauthorized obstructions in the sidewalk space.
   (C)   Sidewalks will be inspected by a designated city employee pursuant to
a sidewalk plan approved by City Council. The city shall notify property owners
in violation of division (B) in writing that repairs shall be completed within
60 days of the date of the mailing of the notice to the last known address of
persons according to city records. Records of the Property Valuation
Administrator may be relied upon conclusively to determine a person’s last
known address. Receipt of the notice will be presumed conclusively unless and
until notification of a change of address of the owner is received by the city.
   (D)   Any person affected by a notice of a violation under division (C)
above may contest the determination of a violation by filing a written notice
of appeal with the City Clerk within 30 days of the date of mailing of the
notice. The notice of appeal shall include a valid mailing address for the
person filing. Within 30 days of receipt of the notice of appeal, the Mayor
shall conduct an administrative hearing to determine whether one more sidewalk
conditions listed in division (B) exist with respect to the sidewalk abutting
the subject property. The city shall be required to prove the existence of a
violation by a preponderance of the evidence. Within 15 days following the
hearing, the Mayor shall issue written findings of fact and conclusions of law
upholding, overruling, or modifying the notice of violation. The written
findings of fact and conclusions of law shall be mailed to the person filing
the appeal at the address provided in the notice of appeal. If the Mayor finds
that a violation did exist, the property owner shall have 60 days from the date
of mailing to make repairs. The Mayor’s decision shall be final. Anyone
aggrieved by that decision may file an appeal with the Campbell County Circuit
Court within 30 days from the date of service of the Mayor’s decision. Any
appeal of the Mayor’s decision shall not stay enforcement of the decision, or
collection of the amount owned unless, there is a specific court order signed
by the judge, directing a stay of further enforcement and collection.
   (E)   Within the time set forth in division (C) or (D) above, any person
thereby affected shall commence and complete the sidewalk repairs in an orderly
and workmanlike manner in accordance with applicable subdivision regulation for
the installation of sidewalks and the cost of the repair shall be borne by the
persons responsible under division (A) above.
   (F)   Failure to make repairs.
      (1)   Upon failure of the persons responsible under division (A) to
complete repair of the block of sidewalk or sidewalk area within the time
specified herein, the city shall undertake, without further notification to the
owner, to make repairs in order to bring the sidewalk into compliance with the
provisions of this section at the expense of the owner or other responsible
persons.
      (2)   Upon completion of the work by the city, the city shall notify and
bill the responsible persons for costs incurred, plus an administration fee
equal to 20% of the costs incurred. The amount billed shall bear interest at a
rate of the current prime rate plus 2% per annum. If payment is made in full
within 30 days of the date of the bill, interest shall be waived.
      (3)   If payment is not made in full, any unpaid amount, plus interest
shall be invoiced to the property owner on the city property tax bill for the
subject property. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from filing a
lien with respect to the subject property or pursuing a civil action for
amounts owed as additional remedies. Pending judicial appeals shall not operate
as a stay to the invoicing, collection, or lien, unless and until there is a
specific order of stay entered by a court of law.
(1993 Code, § 31.25) (Ord. 92-15, passed 12-16-1992; Ord. 15-11, passed 10-7-
2015) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.20 ONLY GRASS MAY BE GROWN BETWEEN STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No one shall plant or grow anything, including plants, shrubs, and
trees, within the area between the street and sidewalks, except ordinary lawn
grass.
   (B)   In the event anyone wishes to plant anything other than lawn grass in
the area, they may do so only with the consent of City Council, which shall not
be unreasonably withheld. An application for permission may be obtained from
the City Clerk during normal business hours and will be addressed at the next
City Council meeting.
   (C)   All trees and shrubs which are planted in the aforementioned area as
of 4-1-1990, may remain where they are planted. All other plantings are subject
to removal. In the event a tree dies, it may be replaced without authority from
City Council.
   (D)   In the event anyone plants anything other than lawn grass as
aforesaid, the city will remove same forthwith at owner’s expense.
   (E)   This section shall take effect after its passage and publication
according to law.
(Ord. 90-02, passed 4-18-1990) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 SWEEPINGS AND DEBRIS ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall sweep, rake, throw, or otherwise deposit any leaves, grass,
or other debris onto any sidewalk, street, or other public way of the city,
except when such debris is placed in a bag or other container for the purpose
of a regularly scheduled collection, pickup, or city-authorized leaf removal.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 8-19-2015)
§ 93.22 RESERVED.
§ 93.23 RESERVED.
§ 93.24 RESERVED.
§ 93.25 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:
      BULK SOLID WASTE CONTAINER. A container intended for construction waste
material or other refuse, excluding garbage, for the purpose of removing said
material from a site. These containers are commonly referred to as dumpsters.
      PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINER. Any box-like container transported by truck
or trailer to a desired location for drop-off, storage, and eventual pickup. A
commonly accepted name for these containers is PODS, an acronym for portable
on-demand storage.
   (B)   Permit required.
      (1)   No person shall place a bulk solid waste container or portable
storage container in a residential zone or in the city right-of-way without
first obtaining a permit from the City Clerk. The applicant shall provide his
or her name, address, and the specific location where the bulk solid waste
container or portable storage container is proposed to be placed.
      (2)   No permit shall be issued under this section unless the applicant
has provided the City Clerk with at least 24 hours' notice in advance of the
placement of the bulk solid waste container or portable storage container. For
purposes of this division, Saturdays, Sundays, and city holidays shall not be
counted in the required notice period.
      (3)   Permits issued under this section shall be valid for a period of 30
days.
      (4)   No more than one bulk solid waste container or portable storage
container shall be placed on, or in the adjacent right-of-way of, any parcel at
the same time.
   (C)   Placement in right-of-way.
      (1)   No permit shall be issued under this section for the placement of a
bulk solid waste container or portable storage container in the right-of-way
if:
         (a)   The placement will obstruct the flow of traffic;
         (b)   The placement will impede or obstruct emergency vehicles; or
         (c)   The bulk solid waste container or portable storage container can
reasonably be placed in a driveway as an alternative.
      (2)   No bulk solid waste container or portable storage container in the
right-of-way shall be placed more than six inches from the curb or with any
portion of the container on or over the curb.
   (D)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person who place a bulk solid waste container or portable
storage container in violation of this section shall be deemed to have
committed a violation, and shall be fined not more than $200 for the first
offense, and not more than $500 for each subsequent offense within five years.
      (2)   Any other violation of this section shall be governed by §
93.99.
      (3)   Any bulk solid waste container or portable storage container placed
in violation of this section shall be subject to removal and/or impoundment by
the Police Department.
(Ord. 19-05, passed 4-17-2019)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who obstructs a public way in violation of §§
93.16 and
93.17 shall be guilty of a criminal violation and shall be fined $125.
   (B)   The violation of any section contained in this chapter for which a
penalty is not specifically provided is a civil offense and shall be enforced
pursuant to Chapter 32 of this code. Any person, firm, or corporation violating
any provision of this chapter shall be fined in an amount of not more than
$500. All fines collected for violations of this chapter shall go to the Street
Fund.
(1993 Code, § 31.99) (Ord. 92-18, passed 1-6-1993; Am. Ord. 16-10, passed 10-
19-2016; Ord. 19-13, passed 10-2-2019)
CHAPTER 94: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Smoke Detectors
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Requirement
   
94.03   Type and placement
   
94.04   Installation and maintenance
   
94.05   Supplemental standards
   
94.06   Enforcement
   
94.07   False emergency alarms
Explosives
   
94.20   Authority and scope
   
94.21   Storage, transportation, and use
   
94.22   Blasting permits
   
94.23   Manufacture and sale
 
   
94.99   Penalty
SMOKE DETECTORS
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING. Any building which contains one or more dwelling units or any
rooming unit, room, or area designated or used for sleeping purposes, either
for primary use or casual occasional use, including any rooming house, tourist
home, school dormitory, and apartment building.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any group of rooms located in a building and forming a single
housekeeping unit with facilities which are used or designed to be used for
living, sleeping, cooking, or eating.
   OWNER. Any person who, alone, jointly, or severally with others, has all or
a part of the legal title to any dwelling or dwelling unit, with or without the
accompanying actual possession thereof; has all or a part of the beneficial
ownership of any dwelling or dwelling unit and a right to the present use and
enjoyment thereof, including a mortgage in possession; and/or has the charge,
care, or control of any dwelling or dwelling unit as the owner or as the
executor, administrator, trustee, or guardian of the estate or as the duly
authorized agent of the owner, with the person thus representing the actual
owner who is bound to comply with the obligations of an owner under this
subchapter.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room which is designed or used for sleeping purposes,
including a room in a rooming house, hotel, motel, tourist home, school
dormitory, or apartment building which may or may not have some additional
facilities for eating or cooking contained therein.
   SLEEPING AREA. The area of the dwelling unit in which the bedrooms or
sleeping rooms are located.
(1993 Code, § 52.01)
§ 94.02 REQUIREMENT.
   Subject to the exceptions and conditions for compliance as stated herein,
six months after the effective date of this subchapter, a smoke detector shall
be required in any dwelling privately owned or rented for occupancy. It shall
be the responsibility of the owner of each new and/or existing occupied
dwelling unit to install a smoke detector in each dwelling unit as hereinafter
provided. The smoke detector shall be capable of sensing visible or invisible
particles of combustion and of providing a suitable alarm or visual alarm for
the deaf or hearing impaired. This subchapter shall apply to any dwelling or
dwelling unit, new or existing, which does not fall under the jurisdiction of
the currently adopted State Building Code and/or the currently adopted Life
Safety Code (LSC 101).
(1993 Code, § 52.02) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 TYPE AND PLACEMENT.
   (A)   In order to comply with this subchapter, only an ionization or
photoelectric-type detector approved by a nationally recognized testing
laboratory shall be installed. As an alternative to a self-contained smoke
detector, under certain limited conditions, an approved fire detection system
or a combination thereof may be installed. Each alternative system must be
individually approved in written form by the Building Inspector. A smoke
detector in any new residential dwelling shall be wired directly (hard-wired)
to the power supply of the building. In existing buildings, it is preferred
that the smoke detector be wired directly to the power supply; however, the
smoke detector may be powered by a self-monitored battery or operated by an
electric plug-in outlet which is fitted with a plug restrainer device, provided
that the outlet is not controlled by a switch other than the main power supply.
   (B)   The smoke detector shall be placed in accordance with the applicable
National Fire Protection Association’s Standards 72-E and 74 (current edition).
The smoke detector may be ceiling- or wall-mounted, provided that, if wall-
mounted, it shall be within 12 inches, but not closer than six inches, of the
ceiling. At least one smoke detector shall be installed to protect each
sleeping area. Where a bedroom or room ordinarily used for sleeping is
separated by another use area, such as a kitchen or living room, but not a
bathroom or closet, it shall be considered a separate sleeping area for the
purposes of this subchapter. In a dwelling unit which contains a well-defined
sleeping room separated from the other activity areas of the same unit, a smoke
detector shall be located in the corridor within the unit or interior area
giving access to the room used for sleeping purposes. Where a sleeping area is
separated and/or where a single smoke detector will not adequately service all
sleeping areas, there shall be a smoke detector installed adjacent to each
sleeping area. In a rooming unit, a smoke detector shall be centrally located
on the ceiling. In a dwelling containing two or more dwelling units or any
rooming unit, in addition to the requirement for an individual smoke detector
in each dwelling unit or rooming unit, a smoke detector shall be placed in a
centrally located common area so that it will adequately service all sleeping
areas. At least one smoke detector shall be installed in or near each stairway
leading up to an occupied area in such a manner so as to assure that rising
smoke is not obstructed in reaching the smoke detector and that the smoke
detector intercepts rising smoke before it reaches the occupied area.
(1993 Code, § 52.03) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   The owner of a dwelling shall be responsible for supplying and installing in
operable condition any required smoke detector and, in the case of rental
property, for providing the maintenance and testing instructions of the
manufacturer to the tenant. The owner of a dwelling unit shall be responsible
for the maintenance and testing, in accordance with the instructions of the
manufacturer, of any smoke detector which is located in any common area and/or
any smoke detector in any rooming unit where a tenant usually has short periods
of occupancy, such as a hotel, motel, rooming house, or tourist home. The
tenant shall be responsible for maintaining and testing, in accordance with the
instructions of the manufacturer, any smoke detector which is within his or her
exclusive control during the life of his or her tenancy. The tenant shall be
responsible for notifying the owner when any smoke detector becomes inoperable,
in which case the owner has ten days in which to repair or place in operable
condition the smoke detector. In the battery-operated type of smoke detector,
battery replacement shall be the responsibility of the tenant. At every change
of tenancy, it shall be the duty of the owner to test and ascertain that the
smoke detector contained in the unit is in operable condition; and, if not, the
owner shall be responsible for placing it in operable condition. At every
change of occupancy of every dwelling unit occasioned by or incidental to a
sale, lease, or sublease of the unit, it shall be the duty of the grantor
thereof, i.e., the seller, lessor, or sublessor, as the case may be, to provide
before occupancy to the new occupant that the smoke detector as required by
this subchapter or other applicable laws is installed and in proper working
condition. Failure to comply with this subchapter shall be punishable as set
forth herein, provided, however, that this subchapter shall not be construed to
violate or render void any contract, lease, or sublease subject hereto.
(1993 Code, § 52.04)
§ 94.05 SUPPLEMENTAL STANDARDS.
   This subchapter is intended to be used with and supplemented by the
applicable provisions of the National Fire Protection Association’s Standards
72-E and 74 (current edition), which are hereby incorporated herein; however,
if there is any conflict between this subchapter and the supplemental
standards, this subchapter and any rule and regulation adopted pursuant thereto
shall prevail. All amendments to or changes in the National Fire Protection
Association’s Standards 72-E and 74 shall be adopted and made a part hereof
without further reference.
(1993 Code, § 52.05)
§ 94.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department shall be responsible for the enforcement of this
subchapter. The Building Inspector shall assist the Police Department by making
referrals to the Police Department as a part of his or her regular inspection
and enforcement of all city housing, building, and safety codes. No building
permits for the remodeling or repair of a dwelling unit shall be issued for any
dwelling unit not properly equipped with a smoke detector. No certificate of
occupancy shall be issued for any new dwelling or dwelling unit not properly
equipped with a smoke detector. A smoke detector must be operable for the final
inspection by the Building Inspector. Instruction/maintenance booklets must be
provided to the owner by the manufacturer as per the National Fire Protection
Association’s Standard 74 and the documentation displayed to the Building
Inspector during the final inspection.
(1993 Code, § 52.06)
§ 94.07 FALSE EMERGENCY ALARMS.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or business owner having charge of any premises
located within the city, which premises is wired to an emergency alarm, is
responsible to have the alarm in the proper state of repair.
   (B)   The Police Chief shall keep an accurate record of all false alarms. An
alarm system shall constitute a public nuisance if it activates more than three
false alarms in a 365-day period. Each false alarm record will be eliminated on
the three hundred sixty-fifth day after the first false alarm. Owners of alarms
which activate more than three false alarms within a 365-day period will be
guilty of an offense hereunder.
   (C)   For each false alarm, after the first three erroneous activations
thereof in any 365-day period, the person or company that owns or controls a
premises upon which the alarm is located shall be charged and assessed a fee of
$50 for each false alarm. If the bill is not paid within a period of 30 days
from the date it was sent, the respective alarm system shall be removed
forthwith from the police dispatcher and the person or company shall be cited
to District Court for a violation of this section.
   (D)   The Police Chief shall maintain a record for each false alarm which
record shall be prima facie evidence in regard to the number of false alarms.
(1993 Code, § 52.07) (Ord. 94-02, passed 1-19-1994; Ord. 94-14, passed 8-17-
1994)
EXPLOSIVES
§ 94.20 AUTHORITY AND SCOPE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall apply to the manufacture, possession, storage,
sale, transportation, and use of explosives and blasting agents.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to explosives or blasting agents while
in the course of transportation via railroad, water, highway, or air when the
explosives or blasting agents are moving under the jurisdiction of and in
conformity with regulations adopted by any federal or state department or
agency; the transportation and use of explosives or blasting agents in the
normal and emergency operations of state or federal agencies or to municipal
fire and police departments, provided they are acting in their official
capacities and in the proper performance of their duties; small arms ammunition
and the components therefor which are subject to the United States Code and the
regulations promulgated thereunder; blasting standards in the Kentucky Revised
Statutes and Kentucky Administrative Regulations; and/or explosives or blasting
agents being used on the site of federal or state projects.
(1993 Code, § 51.01)
§ 94.21 STORAGE, TRANSPORTATION, AND USE.
   All activities within the scope of this subchapter shall conform to the
regulations of the State Department of Mines and Minerals.
(1993 Code, § 51.02) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.22 BLASTING PERMITS.
   (A)   No person or corporation shall conduct a blasting operation within the
city without first obtaining a blasting permit from the Building Inspector.
   (B)   The fee for a blasting permit or permit renewal shall be $10.
   (C)   No person or corporation shall be issued a blasting permit to blast on
public property unless the person to be in charge of the blasting holds a valid
state blaster’s license.
   (D)   No person or corporation shall be issued a blasting permit to blast on
private property with more than five pounds of explosives unless the person in
charge of the blasting holds a valid state blaster’s license.
   (E)   The blasting permit shall specify the location of the blasting to be
permitted.
   (F)   If a project is not completed, the blasting permit must be renewed
annually upon payment of the renewal fee by the applicant.
   (G)   A blasting permit allowing blasting shall be issued upon application,
but on public property shall not become valid until seven days after its
issuance.
   (H)   If unanticipated blasting is required, the blasting permit may become
valid as soon as the Building Inspector notifies all required agencies.
   (I)   On any contract issued by an agency of the city, the blasting permit
shall be issued by the Building Inspector unless otherwise specified in the
contract.
   (J)   False statements made for the purpose of obtaining a blasting permit
shall render the blasting permit null and void from the time of issue.
   (K)   A copy of the blasting permit shall be distributed by the Building
Inspector to the Police Department; Fire Department; City Engineer; and to the
appropriate utilities.
(1993 Code, § 51.03) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.23 MANUFACTURE AND SALE.
   No person or corporation shall operate a business establishment where
explosives are maintained for the sale or manufacture for sale of explosives
within the city without first obtaining a permit from the Building Inspector.
The fee for this permit is $40.
(1993 Code, § 51.04) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The violation of any section of this chapter other than §§
94.20 through
94.23 is a civil offense and shall be enforced pursuant to
Chapter 32 of this code.
   (B)   Any person violating §§
94.20 through
94.23 shall be fined in an amount of not less than $10, nor more than $100,
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both fined and imprisoned. Each day of
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 1-18-2012; Am. Ord. 16-10, passed 10-19-2016)
CHAPTER 95: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
95.01   Swimming regulations
   
95.02   City Community Center Park
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 SWIMMING REGULATIONS.
   Swimming, wading, or entering the water of Belle Acres Lake, which lake is
located on the property controlled by the Southgate Community Center, Inc., by
anyone, at anytime, is hereby prohibited.
(1993 Code, § 56.01) (Ord. 94-03, passed 6-1-1994) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 CITY COMMUNITY CENTER PARK.
   (A)   Generally. The following activities are hereby prohibited on the
property known as Southgate Community Center Park.
   (B)   Activities.
      (1)   The park opens at daylight and closes at dark.
      (2)   No glass or bottles are permitted.
      (3)   No overnight camping is permitted.
      (4)   No fishing is permitted after dark.
      (5)   No boats are permitted.
      (6)   No fires are permitted.
      (7)   All trash must be disposed of properly.
(1993 Code, § 56.02) (Ord. 94-04, passed 6-15-1994) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation, or other entity who violates any
provision of §
95.01 shall be fined in an amount not less than $100, nor more than $200 for
the first offense; in the amount of not less than $200, nor more than $300 for
the second offense; and in an amount not less than $300 nor more than $500 for
the third offense. If any person violating any provision of §
95.01 is a minor as defined in the state statutes, then, in that event, the
penalty provided herein shall be assessed and levied against the minor’s parent
and/or guardian.
(1993 Code, § 56.01)
   (B)   Any person, firm, corporation, or other entity who violates any
provision of §
95.02 may, in lieu of being summoned to District Court for a hearing and for
setting of penalty as set forth in division (B)(1) below, pay an administrative
fee in the sum of $25 to the city.
      (1)   In the event the introductory paragraph of this division (B) does
not apply, any person, firm, corporation, or other entity violating the
provisions of §
95.02 shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $500 for each offense.
      (2)   If any person violating any provision of §
95.02 is a minor as defined in the state statutes, then, in that event, the
penalty provided herein shall be assessed and levied against the minor’s parent
and/or guardian.
(1993 Code, § 56.02)
(Ord. 94-03, passed 6-1-1994; Ord. 94-04, passed 6-15-1994)
CHAPTER 96: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
96.01   Uniform Residential, Landlord, and Tenant Act adopted
§ 96.01 UNIFORM RESIDENTIAL, LANDLORD, AND TENANT ACT ADOPTED.
   (A)   The city hereby adopts the Uniform Residential, Landlord, and Tenant
Act, as set forth in KRS 383.505 through 383.705, in its entirety.
   (B)   A copy of the Uniform Residential, Landlord, and Tenant Act shall be
made available by the city to anyone so requesting same at the city office
during normal business hours.
(1993 Code, § 84.01) (Ord. 92-07, passed 5-20-1992)
CHAPTER 97: RENTAL DWELLING LICENSES
Section
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   Applicability; exemptions
   
97.03   License required
   
97.04   License procedure
   
97.05   License fees; renewal
   
97.06   Licensing standards and conditions
   
97.07   Issuance of a license
   
97.08   Duties of a licensee
   
97.09   Determination of non-compliance
   
97.10   Suspension of license when rental dwelling or short-term rental is
condemned
   
97.11   Inspection guidelines
   
97.12   Conduct on licensed premises
   
97.13   Suspension, revocation and termination of license
   
97.14   Vacation of affected rental dwellings
   
97.15   Reinstatement after suspension or revocation
   
97.16   Appeals Board
   
97.17   Remedies not exclusive
   
97.18   Promulgation of rules and regulations
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 DEFINITIONS.
    For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The Code Enforcement Officer of the City of
Southgate.
   HOST. Any person who is the owner of record of residential real property, or
any person who is a lessee of residential real property pursuant to a written
agreement for the lease of such real property, who offers a dwelling unit, or
portion thereof, for short-term rental.
   LICENSEE. The owner of a rental dwelling or a host who has applied for and
received a rental license.
   LONG-TERM RENTAL DWELLING. Any structure that contains at least one unit in
which a non-owner occupant lives for one month or longer with the permission or
consent of the structure's owner, whether or not a rental fee is charged or
collected. A dwelling occupied by an owner or a member of the owner's family as
set forth in §
97.02(C) is not a LONG-TERM RENTAL DWELLING, even if a non-owner also resides
there.
   MIXED-USE BUILDING. A building that is being utilized, simultaneously, for
both residential and commercial purposes; for example, a building that has a
storefront on street level and residential apartments on upper floors. The
provisions set forth herein only apply to the residential portion thereof.
   OWNER. The person, corporation or other entity who has title to a rental
dwelling, as identified in the records of the Campbell County Clerk.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL. A dwelling unit or portion thereof that is rented,
leased, or otherwise assigned for a tenancy of less than 30 consecutive days
duration, or that is offered, advertised, or otherwise made available for
rental for a tenancy of less than 30 consecutive days. Short-term rentals are
permitted in attached single-family dwellings, detached single-family
dwellings, two-family dwellings, townhomes, and condominiums. Short-term
rentals do not include hotel or motel rooms, extended stay lodging facilities,
bed and breakfast inns, or boarding and lodging house rooms.
   UNIT. Individual living quarters within a rental dwelling, including but not
limited to a single- family home, an apartment in a multi-family apartment
building, an apartment in a mixed-use building, or a sleeping room in a
structure of any type.
(Ord. 12-03, passed 1-18-2012; Ord. 15-12, passed 12-2-2015; Ord. 19-09, passed
8-7-2019)
§ 97.02 APPLICABILITY; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to:
      (1)   All long-term rental dwellings as defined herein, unless
specifically exempt as set forth below in division (B), (C) or (D). That
includes, but is not limited to, single-family homes, condominiums and
townhouses that are not owner-occupied; carriage houses, apartments, sleeping
rooms and other living quarters that are part of otherwise owner-occupied
homes: duplexes and multi-family apartment buildings and complexes; and mixed-
use buildings that are used, in part, for residential purposes.
      (2)   All short-term rentals as defined herein, unless specifically
exempt as set forth below in division (B), (C) or (D). This includes short-term
rentals which are rented, leased, or otherwise assigned in whole or in part,
without regard to whether the host remains present at the short-term rental.
   (B)   The requirement to obtain a rental license and to pay a fee in
connection with securing the license does not apply to long-term rental
dwelling units that are owned or operated by governmental agencies as public
housing or by any entity recognized as a non-profit corporation or exempt
organization under the provisions of 26 U.S.C. § 501(c) of the Internal Revenue
Code. However, such rental properties and rental dwelling units shall be
subject to the remaining provisions hereof, in particular, the licensing
standards, conditions and inspection guidelines.
   (C)   This chapter does not apply to long-term rental dwelling units in
which one or more of the occupants is the grandparent, parent, child,
grandchild, aunt, uncle, niece, or nephew (including steps and in-laws of the
same relation) of the owner.
   (D)   This chapter does not apply to hotels, motels, apartments or
dormitories that are owned by a college or university, jails, convents,
monasteries, nursing homes, parsonages, parish houses, rectories, hospitals or
orphanages.
(Ord. 12-03, passed 1-18-2012; Ord. 15-12, passed 12-2-2015; Ord. 19-09, passed
8-7-2019)
§ 97.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)    No person, firm, or corporation shall offer any dwelling for rent or
allow any long-term rental dwelling unit to be occupied without first obtaining
a rental license for that unit under the terms of this chapter.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation shall own or operate a short-term
rental on any premises within the city without first obtaining a rental license
for that unit under the terms of this chapter.
   (C)   A rental license is not transferable between owners. In the event a
licensee sells a rental dwelling, the new owner shall apply for a rental
license within 60 days of purchasing the unit.
   (D)   A rental license is not transferable between long-term rental dwelling
units or short-term rentals. A licensee is required to obtain a rental license
for each rental dwelling unit or short-term rental he, she or it owns.
(Ord. 12-03, passed 1-18-2012; Ord. 19-09, passed 8-7-2019)  Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.04 LICENSE PROCEDURE.
   (A)    The owner of a long-term rental dwelling or host of a short-term
rental shall apply to the City Clerk or his or her designee for a rental
license prior to allowing that unit to be occupied or used for short-term
rental.
   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by a non-refundable regulatory
fee as provided in §
97.05.
   (C)   The owner of two or more residential long-term rental dwelling units
that share the same street address (for example, the owner of a duplex or
multi-family apartment building) may use a single application to apply for
licenses for all of the units that share that address, but shall be accompanied
by separate fee for each unit.
   (D)   Application shall be made on a form furnished to the owner or host by
the city and shall set forth the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the owner of the long-
term rental dwelling or unit thereof, or of the short-term rental host. If the
owner or host is a partnership, the name of the partnership and the name and
residence of the managing partner shall be included. If the owner or host is a
corporation, the name and address of the corporation, the name of the chief
operating officer and its agent for service of process in Kentucky shall be
included.
      (2)   If the owner or host has appointed an agent authorized to maintain
and manage the property, the name, business or residence address and telephone
number of such agent.
      (3)   Every applicant, whether an individual, partnership or corporation,
must identify in the application by name, residence or business street address
and telephone number, the person who is actively involved in, and responsible
for the maintenance and management of the premises. That person shall, if other
than the owner, affix his or her notarized signature to the application,
thereby accepting joint and several responsibility with the owner (including
any potential criminal, civil or administrative liability) for the maintenance
and management of the premises. A post office box or commercial mail receiving
service is not acceptable as an address for such person.
      (4)   The street address (including any applicable apartment, room or
unit numbers) of the long-term rental dwelling unit or unit(s) or short-term
rental to which the application pertains.
      (5)   If the host of a short-term rental is not also its owner, the
application shall include the written permission of the owner to offer the
short-term rental for rent.
   (E)   In the event that any of the information required to be provided
herein should change either before or after the rental dwelling unit license is
issued, the applicant or licensee shall, within 14 days of such a change,
notify the City Clerk or his or her designee, in writing, of the change.
   (F)   The owner of any long-term rental dwelling which has a valid
occupational license upon the original effective date of this chapter shall be
deemed to have been issued a rental license hereunder, provided that such owner
shall be required to apply for a rental license the year after this chapter
becomes effective.
(Ord. 12-03, passed 1-18-2012; Ord. 15-12, passed 12-2-2015; Ord. 19-09, passed
8-7-2019)  Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.05 LICENSE FEES; RENEWAL.
   (A)   The regulatory fee for each rental license shall be $60 per unit per
license period to compensate the city for its costs related to issuance,
recording, inspection, and other costs related to the enforcement of this
chapter.
   (B)   The license period shall be one full year, beginning on July 1 of each
calendar year and ending on June 30 of the following calendar year.
   (C)   There shall be no proration of or reduction in the regulatory fee for
the first year in which a rental license is issued.
   (D)   A licensee must apply to renew his or her license on or before June 1
of each year if the unit will be occupied or offered for short-term rental in
the following license period. A non-refundable regulatory fee of $60 must
accompany the renewal application to compensate the city for its costs related
to issuance, recording, inspection, and other costs related to the enforcement
of this chapter. If the application is not approved or if the licensee
voluntarily withdraws his or her renewal application, the regulatory fee shall
be retained by the city.   
   (E)   There shall be a grace period for renewals, such that a license may be
renewed if an application is received after June 2 and on or before June 30 for
the following license period. However, such applications must be accompanied by
the payment of a late fee of $60 per unit per license period.
   (F)   Any license not renewed on or before June 30 for the following license
period will be deemed lapsed and, if the rental dwelling unit is occupied, or
if the short-term rental is offered for rent, §
97.99 shall apply.
(Ord. 12-03, passed 1-18-2012; Ord. 15-12, passed 12-2-2015; Ord. 19-09, passed
8-7-2019; Ord. 24-05, passed 4-17-2024) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.06 LICENSING STANDARDS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)    Upon receiving an application for a rental license or an application
for renewal of such a license, the City Clerk or his or her designee shall
refer the application to the Code Enforcement Officer, who shall review the
application for compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   The following minimum standards and conditions shall be met in order
to obtain or renew a rental license. Failure to comply with any of these
standards and conditions shall be adequate grounds for the denial, refusal to
renew, revocation or suspension of any rental license.
      (1)   The applicant shall have paid the required regulatory fee.
      (2)   The unit must not be overcrowded or illegally occupied in violation
of the fire, zoning, life safety, property maintenance and/or building codes of
the city.
      (3)   The unit must not have been used or converted to any other type of
use in violation of the zoning code.
      (4)   If the unit is one of three or more in a single building, it is
subject to a fire inspection by the city Fire/EMS Department.
      (5)   The unit must comply with all provisions of the applicable city
fire, zoning, life safety, property maintenance and/or building codes.
      (6)   The applicant shall maintain a current register of all tenants and
other persons with a lawful right of occupancy to any rental dwelling or short-
term rental. The register shall be produced to the City Clerk upon demand by
the city.
      (7)   The applicant shall have submitted a complete application.
      (8)   There shall be no delinquent property taxes, assessments or any
unpaid code enforcement citations and/or liens on the rental dwelling.
      (9)   No adverse licensing action shall be pending against the property.
   (C)   In addition to the requirements of division (B), it shall be the duty
of a host of a short-term rental under this chapter to ensure that:
      (1)   A clearly marked evacuation plan is posted on the premises;
      (2)   There shall be no more than one contract per short term rental at a
time;
      (3)   At no time shall more persons reside in the short-term rental than
two times the number of bedrooms plus four individuals;
      (4)   Short-term rental guests shall not stay in the short-term rental
for more than 14 days in duration;
      (5)   Each floor of each short-term rental shall have a functioning
carbon-monoxide alarm, each guest room and each hallway interconnecting guest
rooms shall have a functioning smoke detector, and no guest room shall have
more than four occupants. Additionally, all kitchen facilities shall have a
functioning smoke detector; and
      (6)   The short-term rental shall comply with all applicable zoning
regulations related to signs.
(Ord. 12-03, passed 12-18-2012; Ord. 15-12, passed 12-2-2015; Ord. 19-09,
passed 8-7-2019)  Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.07 ISSUANCE OF A LICENSE.
   (A)    When the Code Enforcement Officer or his or her designee finds that
the minimum standards for licensing set forth herein have been met, he or she
shall issue a rental license.
   (B)   When the Code Enforcement Officer or his or her designee finds that
the minimum standards for licenses set forth herein have not been met, he or
she shall deny the issuance of a rental license. The denial shall be in writing
and shall state that the applicant shall have 30 days to appeal the denial to
the Appeals Board.
   (C)   The issuance of a rental license shall not have the effect of changing
the legal status of a rental dwelling including, but not limited to legalizing
an illegally created dwelling unit, use or other circumstance, or recognizing a
nonconforming use, structure or other nonconformity.
(Ord. 12-03, passed 12-18-2012; Ord. 15-12, passed 12-2-2015; Ord. 19-09,
passed 8-7-2019)  Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.08 DUTIES OF A LICENSEE.
   (A)    Every licensee shall conspicuously display his or her license upon
the premises of the long- term rental dwelling unit or short-term rental to
which the license applies.
   (B)   Before a licensee sells the unit to which his or her license applies
or the real property containing that unit, the licensee shall notify the
prospective buyer, in writing, of all unabated orders and notices of violations
issued against the unit or the structure containing it. The licensee must also
notify the prospective buyer, in writing, that the prospective buyer is
required to obtain a rental license in order to lease the property. A copy of
the notification shall be mailed to the Treasurer or his or her designee within
five days of furnishing the notification to the buyer For the purpose hereof,
TIME OF SALE shall be construed to mean when a written purchase agreement is
executed by the buyer or, in the absence of a purchase agreement, upon the
execution of any document providing for the conveyance of any rental dwelling
required to be licensed.
(Ord. 12-03, passed 1-18-2012; Ord. 19-09, passed 8-7-2019)  Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.09 DETERMINATION OF NON-COMPLIANCE.
   (A)    If the Code Enforcement Officer or his or her designee determines
that any long-term rental dwelling, unit thereof, or short-term rental fails to
meet the licensing standards and conditions set forth herein, he or she shall
mail a notice to the licensee or licensee's agent. Notice shall be deemed
sufficient if sent by regular first class mail to the owner or owner’s
designated agent at the address specified in the last license application filed
with the city. Notice shall also be conspicuously posted on the rental
dwelling. The notice shall specify the reasons for the long-term rental
dwelling’s or short-term rental's failure to meet the required licensing
standards and conditions and shall include a copy of any inspection report, if
applicable.
   (B)   If the long-term rental dwelling or short-term rental fails to meet
one or more of the required standards and conditions, the notice shall indicate
that the license holder or applicant has 30 days in which to correct the
defects, after which time action may be taken to deny, refuse to renew, revoke
or suspend the rental license.
   (C)   Whenever a notice of noncompliance is issued hereunder, the Code
Enforcement Officer or his or her designee shall also cause a notice to the
tenants to be prominently posted on the long-term rental dwelling or short-term
rental. The notice shall indicate that a license proceeding has been commenced
against the owner because the long-term rental dwelling or short-term rental
has been found to be in violation of the property maintenance code or any other
applicable code and that the tenants may be required to vacate the building.
(Ord. 12-03, passed 1-18-2012; Ord. 15-12, passed 12-2-2015; Ord. 19-09, passed
8-7-2019)  Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.10 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE WHEN RENTAL DWELLING OR SHORT-TERM RENTAL IS
CONDEMNED.
   When any long-term rental dwelling or short-term rental is condemned as
hazardous or unfit for human habitation due to defects in its structure or its
electrical, plumbing, or mechanical systems, or is boarded, requiring a code
compliance inspection prior to re-occupancy, the rental license issued therefor
shall be suspended by the Code Enforcement Officer or his or her designee
effective the date of condemnation. Any appeal thereof shall be taken to the
Appeals Board. The rental dwelling shall thereafter only be eligible to hold a
rental license upon issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. 12-03, passed 1-18-2012; Ord. 15-12, passed 12-2-2015; Ord. 19-09, passed
8-7-2019)  Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.11 INSPECTION GUIDELINES.
   (A)    The Code Enforcement Officer shall inspect long-term rental dwellings
and short-term rentals for which licenses are required hereunder whenever the
Code Enforcement Officer has probable cause to believe that a violation of this
chapter, the city property maintenance code, nuisance code, criminal nuisance
ordinance, building code, fire code, or electrical code exists. The Code
Enforcement Officer shall conduct these inspections to:
      (1)   Determine whether the long-term rental dwelling or short-term
rental complies with all provisions of the applicable city property maintenance
code and/or other applicable city ordinances.
      (2)   Determine whether the long-term rental dwelling or short-term
rental is in violation of the criminal nuisance ordinance, or other city
ordinance.
      (3)   Identify long-term rental dwellings short-term rentals that are
unlicensed or unregistered.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Officer or any other designated city employee
shall periodically inspect city records with respect to all long-term rental
dwellings and short-term rentals for which licenses are required hereunder to:
      (1)   Determine whether the owner of the licensed premises is delinquent
in paying property taxes or any other assessment.
      (2)   Identify long-term rental dwellings or short-term rentals with
police and/or fire/EMS runs relating to drug offenses, prostitution, crimes of
force or violence or loud and disorderly disturbances.
   (C)   The following shall apply to all interior inspections conducted
pursuant this chapter:
      (1)   The Code Enforcement Officer or his or her designee shall make a
minimum of one attempt to contact the owner of the long-term rental dwelling or
host of the short-term rental to obtain consent for the inspection, and shall
contact the tenant of any occupied unit to obtain consent for the inspection.
      (2)   The Code Enforcement Officer or his or her designee may enter a
unit and the common areas used by the tenant in that unit at the tenant’s
invitation without the consent of the owner.
      (3)   If the Code Enforcement Officer or his or her designee is unable to
obtain consent for an interior inspection, the city shall not conduct an
interior inspection without first applying to a court of competent jurisdiction
and receiving an administrative warrant or other relief necessary to obtain
legal access to the interior of the rental dwelling or short-term rental.
(Ord. 12-03, passed 1-18-2012; Ord. 15-12, passed 12-2-2015; Ord. 19-09, passed
8-7-2019)
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 90
§ 97.12 CONDUCT ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   (A)    It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to prevent the use of,
or condition upon, the premises of a long-term rental dwelling unit or short-
term rental for any purpose contrary to any state statute or city ordinance and
to undertake corrective measures or appropriate action following any use or
conduct by the licensee, tenants and/or guests upon the licensed premises which
has been determined to be in violation thereof.
   (B)   In the event that the Code Enforcement Officer determines that any use
of, conduct upon, or condition on, the premises of a long-term rental dwelling
unit or short-term rental is contrary to the Kentucky Revised Statutes or the
Southgate Code of Ordinances, he or she will notify the licensee of his or her
determination by regular first class mail, which shall act as prima facie proof
that the licensee has been placed on notice of same. The licensee shall have 30
days from the notice of such determination to take such corrective measures or
appropriate action to remedy that use of or conduct on the rental dwelling unit
so as to prevent further use or conduct from occurring thereon or to evict the
offending tenant, if necessary.
   (C)   A determination that an unlawful use or conduct on the premises of the
long-term rental dwelling unit or short-term rental has occurred shall be made
upon substantial evidence to support such a determination. It shall not be
necessary that criminal charges be brought to support such a determination, nor
shall the fact of dismissal or acquittal of any criminal charge operate as a
bar to any adverse license action which may be taken hereunder.
   (D)   Failure to comply shall be grounds for revocation or suspension of any
rental license issued hereunder.
(Ord. 12-03, passed 1-18-2012; Ord. 15-12, passed 12-2-2015; Ord. 19-09, passed
8-7-2019)  Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.13 SUSPENSION, REVOCATION AND TERMINATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)    If, after the issuance of a notice of noncompliance and a period of
no less than 30 days, the Code Enforcement Officer or his or her designee
determines or has probable cause to believe any long-term rental dwelling or
short-term rental fails to comply with any of the licensing standards and
conditions or any other provision set forth herein, the same shall be
sufficient grounds for revocation or suspension of any rental license issued
hereunder, with notice to the holder and with the right to appeal as
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Officer or his or her designee shall send by
certified or regular mail the notice of any revocation or suspension of the
rental license. In the event that the mail is returned unclaimed, the notice
shall then be conspicuously posted on the building. The notice shall contain
the following information:
      (1)   That the Code Enforcement Officer or his or her designee has
determined that the long-term rental dwelling unit or short-term rental fails
to comply with the licensing standards and conditions or any other provision
set forth herein, indicating the specific reasons for such failure, including
copies of applicable inspection reports or notices sent to the licensee of
conduct on the premises of the rental dwelling unit which have not been
remedied. Notice shall be delivered to the tenant of each rental dwelling unit
and shall also be conspicuously posted on the building containing the rental
dwelling unit.
      (2)   That the licensee has failed to take appropriate remedial action.
      (3)   That the Code Enforcement Officer or his or her designee has
revoked or suspended the rental license, and that the licensee shall have 30
days to appeal the adverse licensing action to the Appeals Board.
      (4)   The notice shall set forth the procedure to be followed to request
a hearing before the Appeals Board.
      (5)   That after any revocation or suspension, the long-term rental
dwelling or short-term rental shall not be rented or offered for rent until
sufficient proof has been provided to the Code Enforcement Officer or his or
her designee that all violations are corrected and the rental license
reinstated or reissued.
   (C)   No new rental license shall be issued for a rental dwelling during the
pendency of any adverse license action until disposition of the same.
(Ord. 12-03, passed 1-18-2012; Ord. 15-12, passed 12-2-2015; Ord. 19-09, passed
8-7-2019)  Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.14 VACATION OF AFFECTED RENTAL DWELLINGS.
    When any long-term rental license has been denied, revoked or suspended,
has failed to be initially applied for or renewed, or when the license holder
has failed to obtain a current rental license upon proper application, the Code
Enforcement Officer or his or her designee shall order the rental dwelling
vacated, giving the tenants thereof a reasonable time, not to exceed 60 days,
to arrange for new housing. No rental dwelling unit shall be rented again until
the license holder/owner is properly licensed.
(Ord. 12-03, passed 1-18-2012; Ord. 15-12, passed 12-2-2015; Ord. 19-09, passed
8-7-2019)  Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.15 REINSTATEMENT AFTER SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
    A fee of $500 must accompany any application for reinstatement of any long-
term rental license revoked or suspended. The reinstatement fee shall be in
addition to the regular rental license fee imposed herein. Such fee however
shall not apply to rental dwellings condemned because of destruction by an act
of God or casualty for which the licensee is not responsible.
(Ord. 12-03, passed 1-18-2012; Ord. 19-09, passed 8-7-2019)  Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.16 APPEALS BOARD.
   (A)    The Code Enforcement Board shall be designated as the Appeals Board
authorized to conduct hearing on appeals from adverse actions on the Code
Enforcement Officer or his or her designee with respect to any rental license
and shall have the power to render decisions with regard thereto and to do any
and all other acts as necessary to perform its function. the city shall bear
the burden of proof in showing that the adverse licensing action was authorized
by this chapter.
   (B)   Appeals to the Appeals Board shall be filed with the City Clerk, in
writing, within 30 days of the adverse action by the Code Enforcement Officer
or his or her designee. The appeal shall thereafter be docketed with the
Appeals Board, with notice to all parties.
   (C)   The decision of the Appeals Board shall be reduced to writing and
shall be final. The written decision shall be mailed to the licensee or
applicant by both regular and certified mail. Any aggrieved party to a decision
thereof may appeal he same, within 30 days of the date of the issuance thereof,
to the Campbell District court, as provided by law, and failure to do so within
that time period constitutes a waiver of any further appeal of the Appeal
Board’s decision.
(Ord. 12-03, passed 1-18-2012; Ord. 15-12, passed 12-2-2015; Ord. 19-09, passed
8-7-2019)
§ 97.17 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided herein are not to be deemed exclusive. They shall be
in addition to and do not supersede or preempt other remedies such as
condemnation, written violation orders and warnings, and/or criminal charges
for violation of substantive provision of any city or state codes relating to
fire, zoning, life safety, property maintenance and/or buildings. Further, the
remedies herein do not supersede or affect the legal rights and remedies
provided under law to the tenants to any rental dwelling or unit therein.
(Ord. 12-03, passed 1-18-2012)
§ 97.18 PROMULGATION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Code Enforcement Officer, with the approval of the City Council, shall
have authority to issue and promulgate such rules and regulations as he or she
may consider necessary for the administration of this chapter, provided such
rules and regulations are not inconsistent with the provisions hereof.
(Ord. 12-03, passed 1-18-2012; Ord. 15-12, passed 12-2-2015)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   The violation of any provision of this chapter is a civil
offense and shall be enforced pursuant to
Chapter 32 of this code.
      (2)   In addition thereto, the city shall also have the right to seek
civil injunctive relief against any person who allows to be occupied, or lets
to another, any rental dwelling or unit therein, without either having obtained
or renewed the requisite rental dwelling license, or who shall continue to
allow to be occupied, or let to another, any rental dwelling unit therein,
after such rental dwelling license has been revoked or suspended, requiring
such person to cease and desist from the same until the appropriate rental
dwelling license has been properly issued or renewed or until such time that
the suspension or revocation has been removed.
   (B)   Any person who removes, defaces, tampers or in any way interferes with
any notice posted pursuant to the provisions hereof, shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor, in accordance with the Kentucky Revised
Statutes.
(Ord. 12-03, passed 1-18-2012; Ord. 19-09, passed 8-7-2019; Ord. 24-05, passed
4-17-2024)
CHAPTER 98: TREES
Section
   
98.01   Definitions
   
98.02   Creation and establishment of City Tree Board
   
98.03   Term of office
   
98.04   Compensation
   
98.05   Duties and responsibilities
   
98.06   Operation
   
98.07   Street trees
   
98.08   Spacing
   
98.09   Distance from powerlines
   
98.10   Distance from street corners and fireplugs
   
98.11   Trees and other plantings in the city right-of-way may be removed
   
98.12   Public tree care
   
98.13   Tree topping
   
98.14   Pruning; corner clearance
   
98.15   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property
   
98.16   Interference with City Tree Board
   
98.17   Review by Mayor
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY RIGHT-OF-WAY. All areas within 25 feet from the center of any city
street.
   HIS. He or she.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the city, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and other plantings lying between the
street and sidewalk within the city and/or are otherwise within the city right-
of-way.
(Ord. 10-6, passed 9-1-2010; Ord. 19-02, passed 3-6-2019)
§ 98.02 CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT OF CITY TREE BOARD.
    There is hereby created and established a City Tree Board for the City of
Southgate, Kentucky which shall consist of at least five members, and not more
than ten members, who shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the
City Council. All except one of the members shall be citizens or residents of
this city. The member who is the exception shall serve in an advisory capacity
and is not required to be a resident of this city. This non-resident shall be
knowledgeable of and have expertise in management of the urban forest.
(Ord. 10-6, passed 9-1-2010; Ord. 19-02, passed 3-6-2019)
§ 98.03 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of office of the persons appointed by the Mayor shall be staggered
three year terms. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of
any member, his or her successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion
of the term.
(Ord. 10-6, passed 9-1-2010)
§ 98.04 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 10-6, passed 9-1-2010)
§ 98.05 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)    It shall be the responsibility of the Board, in cooperation with the
City Maintenance Depatment, to study, investigate, counsel, develop, and/or
update annually, and administer a written plan for the care, preservation,
pruning, planting, replanting, removal, or disposition of trees and shrubs in
parks, in or about city property, and in other public areas. Such plan will be
presented annually to the City Council and upon their acceptance and approval,
shall constitute the official comprehensive tree plan for the City of
Southgate, Kentucky.
   (B)   The Board, when requested by the City Council, shall consider,
investigate, make findings, report and recommend upon any special matter of
question coming within the scope of its work.
(Ord. 10-6, passed 9-1-2010; Ord. 19-02, passed 3-6-2019)
§ 98.06 OPERATION.
   The Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and regulations
consistent with this chapter and adopted law, and keep a journal of its
findings. A majority of the members shall be a quorum for the transaction of
business.
(Ord. 10-6, passed 9-1-2010)
§ 98.07 STREET TREES.
   (A)    Street trees are not permitted to be planted as new plantings where
they will interfere with or cause damage to city streets, sidewalks, curbs, or
any public utilities. Street trees may be planted in an area with a minimum
planting square footage space of four feet in width by four feet in length, and
with the written approval of the Tree Board.
   (B)   All persons seeking to plant a street tree, as a new planting, or to
replace a pre-existing street tree, must file an application to the Tree Board
describing the species to be planted, the proposed location, including
proximity to any street, sidewalk, curb, or public utility.
   (C)   The Tree Board shall formulate an official street tree species list
for the City of Southgate, that will specify the types of plantings that may be
permitted as street trees. This list shall be maintained at the office of the
City Clerk, and may be updated from time to time if appropriate, by the Tree
Board. No species other than those on said list may be planted as street trees.
(Ord. 10-6, passed 9-1-2010; Ord. 19-02, passed 3-6-2019)  Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.08 SPACING.
   The spacing of any street tree shall be maintained at a minimum of 30 feet,
except in special plantings designed by a landscape architect and submitted for
approval to the Tree Board.
(Ord. 10-6, passed 9-1-2010) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.09 DISTANCE FROM POWERLINES.
   No street tree shall be planted within 15 feet of power lines.
(Ord. 10-6, passed 9-1-2010) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.10 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIREPLUGS.
   No trees shall be planted closer than 20 feet of any street corner, measured
from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curb lines. No tree shall be
planted closer than ten feet of any fireplug.
(Ord. 10-6, passed 9-1-2010) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.11 TREES AND OTHER PLANTINGS IN THE CITY RIGHT-OF-WAY MAY BE REMOVED.
   (A)   It is the responsibility of the property owner of the property
adjacent to the street tree, or other plantings located in the city right-of-
way, to maintain such in a manner that does not cause or contribute to damage
to the street, sidewalk, curb or public utilities.
   (B)   After giving a property owner an opportunity to cure any damage or to
properly prune or maintain the offending tree or planting lying in the public
right-of-way, the city, through its Code Enforcement Officer, and the Code
Enforcement Board may remove or cause to be removed the offending trees or
plantings located in the city right-of-way.
   (C)   The city may recover from the property owner the costs and expenses
expended by the city in removing the tree, plant, or bush. A lien for the
city’s expenses may be asserted against the property.
(Ord. 10-6, passed 9-1-2010) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.12 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   It shall be the responsibility of any owner, tenant, or other person, having
charge of property within the city upon which any tree, bush, or other object
is located, to remove the tree, bush or other object if it is dead. It shall
further be the person’s responsibility to properly trim the trees, bushes or
other objects in such a manner as to prevent them from causing damage or injury
to persons or property upon the public streets of the City of Southgate,
Kentucky.
(Ord. 10-6, passed 9-1-2010) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.13 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm, or city
department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public property.
TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than
three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a degree so as to
remove the normal canopy to disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by
storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other
obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be exempt from
this chapter at the determination of the City Tree Board.
(Ord. 10-6, passed 9-1-2010) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.14 PRUNING; CORNER CLEARANCE.
   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the
city shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the
light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and
so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the
street or sidewalk. Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased, or dangerous
trees or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of the
public. The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private
property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street
from a street light or interferes with visibilities with any traffic control
device or sign.
(Ord. 10-6, passed 9-1-2010) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.15 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The city shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased
trees on private property within the city when such trees constitute a hazard
to life and property, or harbor insects or disease which constitute a hazard to
life and property, or harbor insects or disease which constitute a potential
threat to other trees within the city. The City Tree Board will notify in
writing, the owners of such trees. Removal shall be done by the owners at their
own expense within 60 days after the date of service of notice.
(Ord. 10-6, passed 9-1-2010) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.16 INTERFERENCE WITH CITY TREE BOARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
City Tree Board or any of its agents or servants while engaging in and about
the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying, or removing of any
street tree, park trees, or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this
chapter.
(Ord. 10-6, passed 9-1-2010) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.17 REVIEW BY MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and decisions of
the City Tree Board. Any person may appeal from any ruling or order of the City
Tree Board to the Mayor who shall hear the matter and make the final decision.
(Ord. 10-6, passed 9-1-2010) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    The violation of any provision of this chapter is a civil offense and
shall be enforced pursuant to
Chapter 32 of this code.
   (B)   The city may also cause a lien to be filed against any property found
to be in violation of this chapter to recover all costs, expenses, and attorney
fees incurred by the city.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall prohibit the city from taking
immediate action to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is reason
to believe that the existence of the violation presents imminent danger, a
serious threat to the public health, safety, and welfare, or if in the absence
of immediate action, the effects of the violation will be irreparable or
irreversible.
(Ord. 10-6, passed 9-1-2010; Ord. 19-02, passed 3-6-2019)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAXES
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL CODE
      
112.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
      
113.   SATELLITE-RECEIVING ANTENNAS
      
114.   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
115.   AMUSEMENTS
      
116.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS
CHAPTER 110: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAXES
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Occupational license application required
   
110.03   Occupational license tax payment required
   
110.04   Apportionment
   
110.05   Employers to withhold
   
110.06   Returns required
   
110.07   Extensions
   
110.08   Refunds
   
110.09   Federal audit provisions
   
110.10   Administrative provisions
   
110.11   Information to remain confidential
   
110.12   Use of occupational license tax
   
110.13   Effective date
 
   
110.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Business License Fee Schedule
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any enterprise, activity, trade, occupation, profession, or
undertaking of any nature conducted for gain or profit. BUSINESS shall not
include the usual activities of board of trade, chambers of commerce, trade
associations or unions, or other associations performing services usually
performed by trade associations or unions as recognized by the Internal Revenue
Service. BUSINESS shall not include funds, foundations, corporations, or
associations organized and operated for the exclusive and sole purpose of
religious, charitable, scientific, literary, educational, civic, or fraternal
purposes, where no part of the earnings, incomes, or receipts of the unit,
group, or association inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or other
person.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. Each separate corporation, limited liability company,
business development corporation, partnership, limited partnership, registered
limited liability partnership, sole proprietorship, association, joint stock
company, receivership, trust, professional service organization, or other legal
entity through which business is conducted.
   CITY. The City of Southgate, Kentucky.
   COMPENSATION. Wages, salaries, commissions, or any other form of
remuneration paid or payable by an employer for services performed by an
employee, which are required to be reported for federal income tax purposes and
adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any retirement,
profit sharing, or deferred compensation plan, which are deferred for federal
income tax purposes under a salary reduction agreement or similar arrangement,
including, but not limited to, salary reduction arrangements under §§ 401(a),
401(k), 402(e), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 414(h), or 457 of the Internal Revenue
Code; and
      (2)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any welfare
benefit, fringe benefit, or other benefit plan made by salary reduction or
other payment method which permits employees to elect to reduce federal taxable
compensation under the Internal Revenue Code, including, but not limited to, §§
125 and 132 of the Internal Revenue Code.
   CONCLUSION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The date that the adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service to net income as reported on the business entity’s
federal income tax return become final and unappealable.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who renders services to another person or any business
entity for compensation, including an officer of a corporation and any officer,
employee, or elected official of the United States, a state, or any political
subdivision of a state, or any agency of instrumentality of any one or more of
the above. A person classified as an independent contractor under the Internal
Revenue Code shall not be considered an EMPLOYEE.
   EMPLOYER. The person for whom an individual performs or performed any
service, of whatever nature, as the employee of that person, except that:
      (1)   If the person for whom the individual performs or performed the
services does not have control of the payment of the wages for those services,
the term EMPLOYER means the person having control of the payment of the wages;
and
      (2)   In the case of a person paying wages on behalf of a nonresident
alien individual, foreign partnership, or foreign corporation, not engaged in
trade or business within the United States, the term EMPLOYER means that
person.
   FINAL DETERMINATION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The revenue agent’s report or
other documents reflecting the final and unappealable adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service.
   FISCAL YEAR. An accounting period of 12 months ending on the last day of any
month other than December.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. All revenues or proceeds derived from the sale, lease, or
rental of goods, services, or property by a business entity reduced by the
following:
      (1)   Sales and excise taxes paid; and
      (2)   Returns and allowances.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code in effect on December 31 of
the year in which the tax is due, exclusive of any amendments made subsequent
to that date, other than amendments that extend provisions in effect on
December 31 of the year in which the tax is due, that would otherwise
terminate.
   LICENSEE. Any person required to file a return or to apply for and obtain an
occupational license under this chapter.
   PERSON. Every natural person, whether a resident or nonresident of the city;
co-partnership; fiduciary; association; or corporation. Whenever the word
PERSON is used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty in the nature
of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as applied to a partnership or other form
of unincorporated enterprise, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and
as applied to corporations, shall mean the officers and directors thereof.
   RETURN or REPORT. Any properly completed and, if required, signed form,
statement, certification, declaration, or any other document permitted or
required to be submitted or filed with the city.
   SALES REVENUE. Receipts from the sale, lease, or rental of goods, services,
or property.
   TAX DISTRICT. Any city of the first to fifth class with the authority to
levy gross receipts or occupational license taxes.
   TAXABLE GROSS RECEIPTS.
      (1)   In case of a business entity having payroll or sales revenues both
within and without the city, means GROSS RECEIPTS as defined above in this
section, and as apportioned under §
110.04.
      (2)   In case of a business entity having payroll or sales revenues only
within the city, means GROSS RECEIPTS as defined above in this section.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year or fiscal year ending during the calendar
year, upon the basis of which gross receipts is computed.
(Ord. 04-05, passed 12-1-2004; Ord. 05-15, passed 1-4-2006)
§ 110.02 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Every person and business entity engaged in any business and every employer
in the city shall be required to apply for and obtain an occupational license
before the commencement of business or in the event of a change of business
status. Licensees are required to notify the city of any changes in address,
the cessation of business, or any other changes that render the information
supplied to the city in the license application inaccurate.
(Ord. 04-05, passed 12-1-2004) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX PAYMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, every person or business
entity engaged in any business for profit and any person of business entity
that makes a filing with the Internal Revenue Service of the State Revenue
Cabinet shall be required to file and pay to the city an annual occupational
license tax for the privilege of engaging in those activities within the city.
      (1)   The occupational license tax shall be measured by 2.5% of all wages
and compensation paid or payable in the city for work done or services
performed or rendered in the city by every resident and nonresident who is an
employee.
      (2)   The occupational license tax shall be measured from the schedule in
Appendix A from business conducted in the city by a resident or nonresident
business entity, or a minimum tax of $35.
   (B)   The maximum tax liability under this chapter shall be assessed as
follows:
      (1)   For each employee, no maximum; and
      (2)   For each business entity, there shall be a maximum liability of
$5,500 for the portion of the occupational license tax that is measured by
taxable gross receipts.
   (C)   The occupational license tax imposed in this section shall not apply
to the following persons or business entities:
      (1)   Any bank, trust company, combined bank and trust company, or trust,
banking, and title insurance company organized and doing business in this
state, and any savings and loan association whether state or federally
chartered;
      (2)   Any compensation received by members of the State National Guard
for active duty training, unit training assemblies, and annual field training;
      (3)   Any compensation received by precinct workers for election training
or work at election booths in state, county, and local primary, regular, or
special elections;
      (4)   Public service corporations that pay an ad valorem tax on property
valued and assessed by the State Department of Revenue pursuant to the
provisions of KRS 136.120. Licensees whose businesses are predominantly
nonpublic service who are also engaged in public service activity are required
to pay a license fee on their gross receipts derived from the nonpublic service
activities apportioned to the city;
      (5)   Persons or business entities that have been issued a license under
KRS Ch. 243 to engage in manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic beverages.
Persons engaged in the business of manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic
beverages are required to file a return, but may exclude the portion of their
gross receipts derived from the manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic
beverages;
      (6)   Insurance companies incorporating under the laws of and doing
business in the state; and
      (7)   Persons or business entities that operate a two-dwelling unit
rental property, where the owner occupies one dwelling unit and rents the other
dwelling unit that is a part thereof.
(Ord. 04-05, passed 12-1-2004; Ord. 07-04, passed 6-20-2007) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 APPORTIONMENT.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) below, gross receipts shall be
apportioned as follows:
      (1)   For business entities with both payroll and sales revenue in more
than one tax district, by multiplying the gross receipts by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the payroll factor, described in division (B) below, plus
the sales factor, described in division (C) below, and the denominator of which
is two;
      (2)   For business entities with sales revenue in more than one tax
district, by multiplying the gross receipts by the sales factor as set forth in
division (C) below; and
      (3)   For the purposes of divisions (A) through (E) of this section, the
business entity shall file an apportionment form provided by the city.
   (B)   The payroll factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
amount paid or payable in the city during the tax period by the business entity
for compensation, and the denominator of which is the total compensation paid
or payable by the business entity everywhere during the tax period.
Compensation is paid or payable in the city based on the time the individual’s
service is performed within the city.
   (C)   The sales factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
sales revenue of the business entity in the city during the tax period, and the
denominator of which is the total sales revenue of the business entity
everywhere during the tax period.
      (1)   The sale, lease, or rental of tangible personal property is in the
city if:
         (a)   The property is delivered or shipped to a purchaser, other than
the United States government, or to the designee of the purchaser within the
city regardless of the FOB point or other conditions of the sale; or
         (b)   The property is shipped from an office, store, warehouse,
factory, or other place of storage in the city and the purchaser is the United
States government.
      (2)   Sales revenue, other than revenues from the sale, lease, or rental
of tangible personal property or the lease or rental of real property, are
apportioned to the city based upon a fraction, the numerator of which is the
time spent in performing the income-producing activity within the city and the
denominator of which is the total time spent performing that income-producing
activity.
      (3)   Sales revenue from the sale, lease, or rental of real property is
allocated to the tax district where the property is located.
   (D)   If the apportionment provisions of this section do not fairly
represent the extent of the business entity’s activity in the city, the
business entity may petition the city or the city may require, in respect to
all or any part of the business entity’s business activity, if reasonable:
      (1)   Separate accounting;
      (2)   The exclusion of any one or more of the factors;
      (3)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors which will fairly
represent the business entity’s business activity in the city; or
      (4)   The employment of any other method to effectuate an equitable
allocation and apportionment of gross receipts.
   (E)   When compensation is paid or payable for work done or services
performed or rendered by an employee, both within and without the city, the
license tax shall be measured by that part of the compensation paid or payable
as a result of work done or service performed or rendered within the city. The
license tax shall be computed by obtaining the percentage that the compensation
for work performed or services rendered within the city bears to the total
wages and compensation paid or payable. In order for the city to verify the
accuracy of a taxpayer’s reported percentages under this division (E), the
taxpayer shall maintain adequate records.
   (F)   All partnerships, S corporations, and all other entities where income
is “passed through” to the owners are subject to this chapter. The occupational
license tax imposed in this chapter is assessed against income before it is
“passed through” these entities to the owners.
   (G)   If any business entity dissolves, ceases to operate, or withdraws from
the city during any taxable year, or if any business entity in any manner
surrenders or loses its charter during any taxable year, the dissolution,
cessation of business, withdrawal, or loss or surrender of charter shall not
defeat the filing of returns and the assessment and collection of any
occupational license tax for the period of that taxable year during which the
business entity had business activity in the city.
   (H)   If a business entity makes, or is required to make, a federal income
tax return, the occupational license tax shall be computed for the purposes of
this chapter on the basis of the same calendar or fiscal year required by the
federal government, and shall employ the same methods of accounting required
for federal income tax purposes.
(Ord. 04-05, passed 12-1-2004; Ord. 05-15, passed 1-4-2006)
§ 110.05 EMPLOYERS TO WITHHOLD.
   (A)   Every employer making payment of compensation to an employee shall
deduct and withhold, upon the payment of the compensation, an occupational
license tax calculated under §
110.03 imposed against the compensation by the city. Amounts withheld shall be
paid to the city in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall, for the quarter ending after January 1 and for each quarter ending
thereafter, on or before the end of the month following the close of each
quarter, make a return and report to the city, and pay to the city, the tax
required to be withheld under this section, unless the employer is permitted or
required to report within a reasonable time after some other period as
determined by the city.
   (C)   Every employer who fails to withhold or pay to the city any sums
required by this chapter to be withheld and paid shall be personally and
individually liable to the city for any sum or sums withheld or required to be
withheld in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (D)   The city shall have a lien upon all the property of any employer who
fails to withhold or pay over to the city sums required to be withheld under
this section. If the employer withholds, but fails to pay the amounts withheld
to the city, the lien shall commence as of the date the amounts withheld were
required to be paid to the city. If the employer fails to withhold, the lien
shall commence at the time the liability of the employer is assessed by the
city.
   (E)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall annually, on or before February 28 of each year, complete and file on a
form furnished or approved by the city a reconciliation of the occupational
license tax withheld where compensation is paid or payable to employees. Either
copies of federal forms W-2 and W-3, transmittal of wage and tax statements, or
a detailed employee listing with the required equivalent information, as
determined by the city, shall be submitted.
   (F)   Every employer shall furnish each employee a statement on or before
January 31 of each year showing the amount of compensation and occupational
license tax deducted by the employer from the compensation paid to the employee
for payment to the city during the preceding calendar year.
   (G)   An employer shall be liable for the payment of the tax required to be
deducted and withheld under this section.
   (H)   The president, vice president, secretary, treasurer, or any other
person holding an equivalent corporate office of any business entity subject to
this section shall be personally and individually liable, both jointly and
severally, for any tax required to be withheld from compensation paid or
payable to one or more employees of the business entity, and neither the
corporate dissolution or withdrawal of the business entity from the city, nor
the cessation of holding any corporate office, shall discharge that liability;
provided that the personal and individual liability shall apply to each and
every person holding the corporate office at the time the tax becomes or became
obligated. No person shall be personally and individually liable under this
division (H) unless the person had authority to collect, truthfully account
for, or pay over the tax imposed by this chapter at the time that the taxes
imposed by this chapter become or became due.
   (I)   Not withstanding divisions (G) and (H) above, every employee receiving
compensation in the city subject to the tax imposed under §
110.03 shall be personally liable for any amount due. In all cases where the
employer does not withhold the tax levied under this chapter from the employee,
the employee or employees shall be responsible for filing with the city each
quarter in the same manner as if they were the employer or as otherwise
required by the city. If an employer fails to or is not required to withhold,
report, or pay the license tax, it shall become the duty of the employee to
file with the city. The only employer that is not required to withhold, report,
and pay the occupational license tax is the federal government, including the
United States Postal Service. The payment required to be made by an employee
can be made quarterly, for the periods ending March 31, June 30, September 30,
and December 31 of each year, or at any time the employee wishes to make an
estimated payment for the year in which wages are earned. All license fees must
be received by February 28 for the preceding calendar year, together with a
copy of the employee’s W-2 form. Employers not required to withhold, report, or
pay the license tax must annually, during the month of January of each year,
make a return to the city, in which is set forth the name and Social Security
number of each employee of the employer during the preceding calendar year,
giving the amount of salaries, wages, commissions, or other compensation earned
during the preceding year by each employee. This list shall include all current
full-time employees, part-time employees, temporary employees, and terminated
employees, whether it be voluntary or involuntary.
(Ord. 04-05, passed 12-1-2004; Ord. 05-15, passed 1-4-2006) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 RETURNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All business entity returns for the preceding taxable year shall be
made by April 15 of each year, except returns made on the basis of a fiscal
year, which shall be made by the fifteenth day of the fourth month following
the close of the fiscal year. Blank forms for returns shall be supplied by the
city.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of its federal income tax
return and all supporting statements and schedules at the time of filing its
occupational license tax return with the city. Whenever, in the opinion of the
city, it is necessary to examine the federal income tax return of any business
entity in order to audit the return, the city may compel the business entity to
produce for inspection a copy of any statements and schedules in support
thereof that have not been previously filed. The city may also require copies
of reports of adjustments made by the federal government.
   (C)   Every business entity subject to a occupational license tax governed
by the provisions of this chapter shall keep records, render under oath
statements, make returns, and comply with rules as the city from time to time
may prescribe. Whenever the city deems it necessary, the city may require a
business entity, by notice served to the business entity, to make a return,
render statements under oath, or keep records, as the city deems sufficient to
determine the tax liability of the business entity.
   (D)   The city may require, for the purpose of ascertaining the correctness
of any return or for the purposes of making an estimate of the taxable income
of any business entity, the attendance of a representative of the business
entity or of any other person having knowledge on the premises.
   (E)   The full amount of the unpaid tax payable by any business entity, as
appears from the face of the return, shall be paid to the city at the time
prescribed for filing the occupational license tax return, determined without
regard to any extension of time for filing the return.
   (F)   Every business entity making payments of $600 or more to persons other
than employees for services performed within the city is responsible for
maintaining the records of those payments and for completing IRS Form 1099 on
or before February 28 of the year following the close of the calendar year in
which the compensation was paid and to remit copies of the IRS Form 1099 or
equivalent information to the city on or before February 28 of each year.
(Ord. 04-05, passed 12-1-2004)
§ 110.07 EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The city may grant any business entity an extension of not more than
six months, unless a longer extension has been granted by the Internal Revenue
Service or is agreed to by the city and the business entity, for filing its
return, if the business entity, on or before the date prescribed for payment of
the occupational license tax, requests in writing the extension and pays the
amount properly estimated as its tax. Extension request forms shall be supplied
by the city.
   (B)   If the time for filing a return is extended, the business entity shall
pay, as part of the tax, an amount equal to 12% per annum simple interest on
the tax shown due on the return, but not been previously paid, from the time
the tax was due until the return is actually filed and the tax paid to the
city. A fraction of a month is counted as an entire month.
(Ord. 04-05, passed 12-1-2004)
§ 110.08 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Where there has been an overpayment of tax under §
110.05, a refund or credit shall be made to the employer only to the extent
that the amount of the overpayment was not deducted and withheld under §
110.05 by the employer. Unless a written application for refund or credit is
received by the city from the employer within two years from the date the
overpayment was made, no refund or credit shall be allowed. Where there has
been an overpayment of the maximum tax due under §
110.05, a refund or credit shall be made to the employee to the extent of
overpayment only if a written application for refund is received by the city
from the employer or the employee within two years from the date the
overpayment was made. All written applications for refunds shall be submitted
to the city on a form furnished or approved by the city. Refunds may be
withheld from an employee until the employer has filed all required forms and
provided all required information to the city. Overpayments of less than $5
shall not be refunded.
   (B)   An employee who has compensation attributable to activities performed
outside the city, based on time spent outside the city, whose employer has
withheld and remitted to this city, the occupational license tax on the
compensation attributable to activities performed outside the city, may file
for a refund within two years of the date prescribed by law for the filing of a
return. The employee shall provide a schedule and computation sufficient to
verify the refund claim and the city may confirm with the employer the
percentage of time spent outside the city and the amount of compensation
attributable to activities performed outside the city prior to approval of the
refund.
   (C)   Where there has been an overpayment of tax under §
110.03, a refund or credit shall be made to any person or business entity to
the extent of overpayment only if a written application for refund or credit is
received by the city from the person or business entity within two years from
the date the overpayment was made. No refund shall be made of any tax paid
unless a complete return is filed as required by §
110.03.
(Ord. 04-05, passed 12-1-2004; Ord. 05-15, passed 1-4-2006)
§ 110.09 FEDERAL AUDIT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   As soon as practicable after each return is received, the city may
examine and audit the return. If the amount of tax computed by the city is
greater than the amount returned by the business entity, the additional tax
shall be assessed and a notice of assessment mailed to the business entity by
the city within five years from the date the return was filed, except as
otherwise provided in this division (A).
      (1)   In the case of a failure to file a return or of a fraudulent
return, the additional tax may be assessed at any time.
      (2)   In the case of a return where a business entity understates gross
receipts, or omits an amount properly includable in gross receipts, or both,
which understatement or omission, or both, is in excess of 25% of the amount of
gross receipts stated in the return, the additional tax may be assessed at any
time within six years after the return was filed.
      (3)   In the case of an assessment of additional tax relating directly to
adjustments resulting from a final determination of a federal audit, the
additional tax may be assessed before the expiration of the times provided in
this division (A), or six months from the date the city receives the final
determination of the federal audit from the business entity, whichever is
later.
      (4)   The times provided in this division (A) may be extended by
agreement between the business entity and the city. For the purposes of this
division (A), a return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing
the return shall be considered as filed on the last day. Any extension granted
for filing the return shall also be considered as extending the last day
prescribed by law for filing the return.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of the final determination
of the federal audit within 30 days of the conclusion of the federal audit.
   (C)   The city may initiate a civil action for the collection of any
additional tax within the times prescribed in division (A) above.
(Ord. 04-05, passed 12-1-2004)
§ 110.10 ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No suit shall be maintained in any court to restrain or delay the
collection or payment of any tax levied by this chapter.
   (B)   Any tax collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter may be
refunded or credited within two years of the date prescribed by law for the
filing of a return or the date the money was paid to the city, whichever is the
later, except that:
      (1)   In any case where the assessment period contained in §
110.09 has been extended by an agreement between the business entity and the
city, the limitation contained in this division (B)(1) shall be extended
accordingly; and
      (2)   If the claim for refund or credit relates directly to adjustments
resulting from a federal audit, the business entity shall file a claim for
refund or credit within the time provided for in this division (B)(2) or six
months from the conclusion of the federal audit, whichever is later.
   (C)   For the purposes of this division (C) and division (D) below, a return
filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the return shall be
considered as filed on the last day.
   (D) The authority to refund or credit overpayments of taxes collected
pursuant to this chapter is vested exclusively in the city.
(Ord. 04-05, passed 12-1-2004)
§ 110.11 INFORMATION TO REMAIN CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   No present or former employee of any tax district shall intentionally
and without authorization inspect or divulge any information acquired by him or
her of the affairs of any person, or information regarding the tax schedules,
returns, or reports required to be filed with the tax district or other proper
officer, or any information produced by a hearing or investigation, insofar as
the information may have to do with the affairs of the person’s business. This
prohibition does not extend to information required in prosecutions for making
false reports or returns for taxation, or any other infraction of the tax laws,
or in any way made a matter of public record, nor does it preclude furnishing
any taxpayer or the taxpayer’s properly authorized agent with information
respecting his or her own return. Further, this prohibition does not preclude
any employee of the tax district from testifying in any court, or from
introducing as evidence returns or reports filed with the tax district, in an
action for violation of a tax district tax laws or in any action challenging a
tax district tax laws.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to disclose to the State Commissioner of
Revenue or his or her duly authorized agent all the information and rights to
inspect any of the books and records of the city if the State Commissioner of
Revenue grants to the city the reciprocal right to obtain information from the
files and records of the State Revenue Cabinet and maintains the privileged
character of the information so furnished. Provided, further, that the city may
publish statistics based on the information in such a manner as not to reveal
data respecting gross receipts or compensation of any person or business
entity.
   (C)   In addition, the city is empowered to execute similar reciprocity
agreements as described in division (B) above with any other taxing entity,
should there be a need for exchange of information in order to effect diligent
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 04-05, passed 12-1-2004) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.12 USE OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX.
   All revenue derived from the imposition and collection of occupational
license taxes shall be earmarked to the City General Fund budget for the
operation of city government.
(Ord. 04-05, passed 12-1-2004)
§ 110.13 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage
and publication according to law.
(Ord. 04-05, passed 12-1-2004)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A business entity subject to tax on gross receipts may be subject to a
penalty equal to 5% of the tax due for each calendar month or fraction thereof
if the business entity fails to file any return or report on or before the due
date prescribed for filing or as extended by the city, or fails to pay the tax
computed on the return or report on or before the due date prescribed for
payment. The total penalty levied pursuant to this division (A) shall not
exceed 25% of the total tax due; however, the penalty shall not be less than
$25.
   (B)   Every employer who fails to file a return or pay the tax on or before
the time prescribed under §
110.05 may be subject to a penalty in amount equal to 5% of the tax due for
each calendar month or fraction thereof. The total penalty levied pursuant to
this division (B) shall not exceed 25% of the total tax due; however, the
penalty shall not be less than $25.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer shall pay, as part of the tax, an amount equal to 12% per
annum simple interest on the tax shown due, but not previously paid, from the
time the tax was due until the tax is paid to the city. A fraction of a month
is counted as an entire month.
   (D)   Every tax imposed by this chapter, and all increases, interest, and
penalties thereon, shall become, from the time the tax is due and payable, a
personal debt of the taxpayer to the city.
   (E)   The city may enforce the collection of the occupational tax due under
§
110.03 and any fees, penalties, and interest as provided in divisions (A)
through (D) above by civil action in a court of appropriate jurisdiction. To
the extent authorized by law, the city shall be entitled to recover all court
costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by it in enforcing any provision of
this chapter.
   (F)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer who willfully fails to make a return or willfully makes a
false return, or who willfully fails to pay taxes owing or collected, with the
intent to evade payment of the tax or amount collected, or any part thereof,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (G)   Any person who willfully aids or assists in, or procures, counsels, or
advises the preparation or presentation under, or in connection with, any
matter arising under this chapter of a return, affidavit, claim, or other
document, which is fraudulent or is false as to any material matter, whether or
not the falsity or fraud is with the knowledge or consent of the person
authorized or required to present the return, affidavit, claim, or document
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (H)   A return for the purpose of this section shall mean and include any
return, declaration, or form prescribed by the city and required to be filed
with the city by the provisions of this chapter, or by the rules of the city or
by written request for information to the business entity by the city.
   (I)   Any person violating the provisions of §
110.11 by intentionally inspecting confidential taxpayer information without
authorization shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not longer
than six months, or both.
   (J)   Any person violating the provisions of §
110.11 by divulging confidential taxpayer information shall be fined not more
than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.
(Ord. 04-05, passed 12-1-2004)
APPENDIX A: BUSINESS LICENSE FEE SCHEDULE
Income from Business in Southgate Amount of Tax
Income from Business in Southgate Amount of Tax
$0 through $10,000                $35
$10,001 through $50,000           $50
$50,001 through $100,000          $75
$100,001 through $150,000         $125
$150,001 through $200,000         $175
$200,001 through $300,000         $250
$300,001 through $400,000         $350
$400,001 through $500,000         $450
$500,001 through $1,000,000       $750
$1,000,001 through $1,500,000     $1,250
$1,500,001 through $2,000,000     $1,750
$2,000,001 through $4,000,000     $2,500
$4,000,001 through $6,000,000     $3,250
$6,000,001 through $8,000,000     $4,000
$8,000,001 through $10,000,000    $4,750
Over $10,000,000                  $5,500
 
(Ord. 04-05, passed 12-1-2004)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL CODE
Section
   
111.01   Adoption
   
111.02   Procedure
   
111.03   Permission
   
111.04   Ineligibility
   
111.05   Issuance
   
111.06   Posting
   
111.07   Revocation
   
111.08   Nonrefundability
   
111.09   Restrictions
   
111.10   Term
   
111.11   Types and fees
   
111.12   Replacement
   
111.13   Deposit
   
111.14   Drinking on parking lots
   
111.15   Removal of alcoholic beverages
   
111.16   Open containers
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Consumption of alcoholic beverages by minors, see §§
130.20 through
130.22
§ 111.01 ADOPTION.
   This chapter shall be known and may be referred to as the “Alcoholic
Beverage Control Code.” So much of KRS Ch. 241, 242, 243, and 244 and all acts
in amendment relating to the manufacture, sale, transportation, possession, and
control of alcoholic beverages applicable to cities of the fourth class are
adopted as a part of this chapter. The definitions set forth in KRS 241.010 are
adopted as the meanings of the words used herein unless otherwise indicated.
(1993 Code, § 60.01)
§ 111.02 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Generally. Any person desiring to traffic in alcoholic beverages
within the city must, at least 30 days prior to the date on which he or she
desires a license to be issued, take the following steps.
   (B)   Steps.
      (1)   He or she must make a written verified application to the city for
a license. The application shall contain the name, age, and address of each
applicant and each person interested or to become interested in the business
for which the license is sought. If the applicant is a corporation, the name,
address, and age of each officer, director, and managerial employee are
required.
      (2)   He or she must present satisfactory evidence with the application
of good moral character. Full compliance with the pertinent statutory
regulations of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act is mandatory.
      (3)   He or she must submit with the application a certified check or
cash in a sufficient amount to cover the fee for the particular kind of license
sought in accordance with the schedule of fees established. It is understood
and agreed by the city that the check or cash shall be returned to the
applicant if the application is not approved.
(1993 Code, § 60.02)
§ 111.03 PERMISSION.
   If the application is an original one, i.e., any application other than for
a renewal of a pre-existing license, the applicant shall file with the
application a statement signed by at least 75% of the owners of property within
a 500-foot radius from the site where the applicant intends to establish his or
her place of business. The statement shall declare that the signers, as
property owners, have no objection to the establishment of the business.
(1993 Code, § 60.03) (Ord. 91-08, passed 6-19-1991)
§ 111.04 INELIGIBILITY.
   (A)   The City Council reserves the right to approve or reject any
application for any license hereinafter specified.
   (B)   However, no person shall become a licensee under the terms of this
chapter who falls within one of the following categories.
      (1)   He or she has been convicted of a felony, misdemeanor, or any
offense directly or indirectly attributable to the use of intoxicating liquors
within two years next prior to the date of the application.
      (2)   He or she is under the age of 21 years.
      (3)   He or she is not a citizen of the United States.
      (4)   He or she has had any license issued under this chapter or any
license issued under any act or ordinance relating to the regulation of the
manufacture, sale, or transportation of alcoholic beverages revoked for cause
or has been convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter or any
other act or ordinance until the expiration of two years from the date of the
revocation or conviction.
      (5)   He or she is a partner or affiliated with a corporation unless each
member of the partnership or each principal officer of the corporation could
have himself or herself obtained and can now obtain a license individually.
(1993 Code, § 60.04)
§ 111.05 ISSUANCE.
   If the application is approved by the City Council, it shall direct the
Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator immediately to issue a license to the
applicant. The Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator shall issue the
appropriate license in the form approved by the State Alcoholic Beverage
Control Board.
(1993 Code, § 60.05)
§ 111.06 POSTING.
   After the issuance of the license and prior to the commencement of business,
the licensee shall post the license in a conspicuous place in his or her
establishment and, during the entire life of the license, shall keep it posted
and displayed in a conspicuous place in the principal room in which the
business is carried on.
(1993 Code, § 60.06) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any license issued may be revoked by the issuing authority
for any of the following reasons.
   (B)   Reasons.
      (1)   Any violation of any provision of this chapter or revocation of the
state license of the licensee by the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board for
any reason may be grounds for revocation.
      (2)   The conviction of the licensee, his or her agent, or any employee
of the licensee for selling any illegal beverage on the premises licensed may
be grounds for revocation.
      (3)   The making of any false material statement in an application for a
license may be grounds for revocation.
      (4)   The transferral, assignment, pledge, deposit, or hypothecation of a
license; the payment for the license of another; or the permitting of another
to pay for one’s own license may be grounds for revocation.
      (5)   The sale or agreement to sell alcoholic beverages to a wholesaler,
retailer, or any person for resale who is not licensed to do so at that time
may be grounds for revocation.
      (6)   The willful or deliberate failure or default to pay an excise tax,
any part thereof, or any penalty imposed by or under the statute, ordinance, or
act of Congress relative to taxation or for a violation of any rule or
regulation of the State Department of Revenue made in pursuance thereof may be
grounds for revocation.
(1993 Code, § 60.07) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 NONREFUNDABILITY.
   If any license is revoked for reason of neglect or failure of the licensee
to observe and perform all rules imposed upon him or her, for personal conduct,
or for the manner of conducting his or her place business, the licensee shall
not be entitled to any proportionate refund of the license fee.
(1993 Code, § 60.08) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Generally. In granting any license, the following restrictions are
imposed on the licensee, although the restrictions may not be incorporated in
or printed on the face of the licensee.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   No person, licensee, or any of his or her agents, servants, or
employees shall purchase or agree to purchase any alcoholic beverage from
another within or without the state who is not duly licensed to sell beverages
to the particular purchasers at the time of the sale or the agreement to sell;
nor shall he or she give an order for any beverage to any individual who is not
a licensee as a special agent or solicitor, if the license is required.
      (2)   No person, licensee, or any of his or her agents, servants, or
employees shall peddle alcoholic beverages from house to house by means of a
truck or otherwise where the sale is consummated and delivery made concurrently
at the residence or place of business of the consumer.
      (3)   No person, licensee, or any of his or her agents, servants, or
employees shall employ any canvasser or solicitor for the purpose of receiving
an order from a consumer for any alcoholic beverage at the residence or place
of business of the consumer; nor shall he or she receive or accept any order
which has been solicited or received at the residence or place of business of
the consumer, except for a licensee as a distributor.
      (4)   A license issued under this chapter shall not be transferable or
assignable to any other person, premises, or part of the building containing
the licensed premises without first obtaining the permission of the granting
authority first, as provided in §
111.11(B). Permission, if granted, shall be endorsed on the face of the license
by the Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator. No license granted hereunder
shall be pledged, hypothecated, or deposited as collateral security on any loan
or upon any condition; and, if pledged, hypothecated, or deposited, the license
shall be revoked.
      (5)   The licenses fee for every license issued under this chapter shall
be payable by the person making the application for the license and to whom it
is issued, and no other person shall pay for any license issued hereunder. In
addition to all other penalties provided in this chapter, a violation of this
division (B)(5) shall authorize and require the revocation of the license that
was paid for by another and also the revocation of the license, if any, of the
person paying for the license of another.
      (6)   No license enumerated below shall be granted for any premises which
are located on the same street as and within 200 feet of a building occupied
exclusively as a school, hospital, church, or other place of worship without
the written permission of the governing authority of the institution.
      (7)   The hours of operation for businesses which have been granted a
license for the sale of distilled spirits, wines, and/or cereal malt beverages
shall be as follows:
         (a)   Cereal malt beverage any day 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m. midnight;
         (b)   Distilled spirits and wines by the package Monday through
Saturday 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m. midnight. Sunday sales shall be 11:00 a.m. to
12:00 a.m. midnight. Special Sunday sale license required pursuant to §
111.11(A)(2); and
         (c)   Cereal and malt beverages, distilled sprits, and wines for
consumption on the premises Monday through Saturday 8:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m. the
following day. Sunday 11:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m. the following day. Special Sunday
sale license required pursuant to §
111.11(A)(8).
      (8)   No person, licensee, or any of his or her agents, servants, or
employees shall cause, suffer, or permit the licensed premises to be
disorderly.
      (9)   No person, licensee, or any of his or her agents, servants, or
employees shall sell, give away, or deliver any distilled spirits, wines, and/
or cereal or malt beverage or procure or permit any distilled spirits, wines,
and/or cereal or malt beverage to be sold, given away, or delivered to a minor,
an intoxicated person, or any person apparently under the influence of liquor.
      (10)   Any distilled spirits licensee shall be permitted to have until
one-half hour after the time set forth in ordinances designated for closing in
which to clear the premises and parking lots of patrons of his or her business.
(1993 Code, § 60.09) (Ord. 90-04, passed 5-2-1990; Ord. 90-08, passed 7-18-
1990; Ord. 05-01, passed 2-4-2005; Ord. 24-02, passed 1-17-2024) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.10 TERM.
   The term for a license issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter
shall commence on December 1 of each year and shall expire at midnight on
November 30 of the following calendar year. All licenses under this chapter
issued for the period July 1, 2013 through June 30, 2014 shall be extended
through November 30, 2014. The license shall be printed in the form prescribed
and approved by the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board, shall be issued and
signed by the City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator, and countersigned
by the Mayor.
(1993 Code, § 60.10) (Ord. 13-07, passed 11-20-2013)
§ 111.11 TYPES AND FEES.
   (A)   The following are the types of licenses provided for the privilege of
trafficking in alcoholic beverages within the city limits. Each licensee shall
be printed on a form and be readily distinguishable from any other. The fee for
each license shall be as herein indicated.
      (1)   The fee for a wholesaler license to sell distilled spirits, wines
and/or cereal or malt beverages at wholesale shall be $2,060 per annum.
      (2)   The fee for a quota retail package license to sell distilled
spirits and wines at retail by the package for consumption off of the premises
shall be $500 per annum for sales Monday through Saturday. The fee for a
special Sunday retail package license to sell distilled spirits and wines at
retail by the package for consumption off of the premises on Sunday shall be
$300 per annum. Sunday sales shall not be permitted by any licensee unless the
licensee is authorized to sell the distilled spirits and wines Monday through
Saturday.
      (3)   The fee for a quota retail drink license to sell distilled spirits
and wines at retail for consumption on the premises shall be $600 per annum. In
those instances in which this particular license has heretofore been issued to
an applicant therefor, the licensee, upon application duly made, may have
issued to him or her a NQ-4 retail malt beverage drink license to sell within
the city limits cereal or malt beverages, either draft or in containers, at
retail for consumption on the premises for an additional license fee of $75.
      (4)   The fee for a distributor license to sell distilled spirits, wine
and/or cereal or malt beverages at wholesale shall be $400 per annum.
      (5)   The fee for a NQ-4 retail malt beverage drink license to sell
cereal or malt beverages, either draft or in containers, at retail for
consumption on the premises and where no other license to sell distilled
spirits and wines has been obtained shall be $200 per annum.
      (6)   The fee for a NQ retail malt beverage package license to sell
cereal or malt beverages at retail by the package for consumption off of the
premises shall be $200 per annum.
      (7)   The fee for a special temporary license for the purpose of
divisions (A)(3) and (A)(5) above shall be $90; however, in the case of a
church, civic club, lodge, or other organization in which the entire proceeds
of the enterprise go to a benevolent or religious purpose, a special temporary
license may be issued for a nominal fee of $10.
      (8)   Any person, firm, or corporation presently holding a license to
sell distilled spirits, wines, cereal, and/or malt beverages at retail for
consumption on the premises may apply for and receive a special Sunday retail
drink license which shall permit the sales between 1:00 p.m. Sunday and 2:00
a.m. the following day. The fee for the license shall be $250 per annum.
   (B)   A license issued hereunder may be transferred from one person to
another or from one location to another, provided an application in writing on
a form provided by the city is first filed in the manner and in accordance with
§
111.02. No transfer shall be made or any application for a transfer
acknowledged after either the applicant or the licensee has been charged with a
violation of any provision of this chapter or any state law until the time as
the charge has been finally disposed of. The fee for the transfer of any
license shall be $50.
   (C)   A NQ-3 private club license may be issued to any known private,
social, fraternal, military, or political organization or club which applies
generally the net proceeds of its activities to a recognized charity or purpose
and which has, for one year prior to the date of the application, maintained
and operated a club room from which the public is excluded. The NQ-3 private
club license shall authorize the licensee to exercise the privileges of a
retail licensee of distilled spirits, wines, and/or cereal or malt beverages,
either draft or in containers, at the designated premises. All restrictions or
provisions applying to a licensee of distilled spirits, wines, and/or cereal or
malt beverages shall apply to the NQ-3 private club licensee. The fee for the
NQ-3 private club license shall be $100 per annum.
(1993 Code, § 60.11) (Ord. 05-02, passed 2-4-2005; Ord. 13-07, passed 11-20-
2013) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.12 REPLACEMENT.
   If the license is lost or destroyed without fault on the part of the
licensee, upon due proof made to the City Council of the loss or destruction, a
duplicate license may be issued to the licensee upon the order of the City
Council directed to the Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator. A charge of
$10 shall be made for the duplicate license.
(1993 Code, § 60.12) (Ord. 13-07, passed 11-20-2013)
§ 111.13 DEPOSIT.
   All money received by the Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator from the
issuance of licenses shall be accounted for to the City Treasurer, and the
latter shall place the funds in the City General Fund.
(1993 Code, § 60.13)
§ 111.14 DRINKING ON PARKING LOTS.
   Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, or joint venture which owns,
operates, or controls any establishment where alcoholic beverages are served or
provided shall prohibit the drinking of the beverages on any and all parking
lots which are adjacent, adjoining, connect with, or used by the patrons of the
aforementioned establishment. There is exempted from this provision any person,
firm, corporation, partnership, or joint venture which holds a special
temporary license, which license permits the operation of an outdoor festival
if the festival is conducted no more than three consecutive days semiannually.
(1993 Code, § 60.14) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.15 REMOVAL OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   The owners, operators, or controllers of any establishment which serves or
provides any type of alcoholic beverage shall prohibit the removal of any
alcoholic beverage from inside the building to the outside of the building if
the beverage is in an open container. There is exempted from this provision any
person, firm, corporation, partnership, or joint venture which holds a special
temporary license, which license permits the operation of an outdoor festival
if the festival is conducted no more than three consecutive days semiannually.
(1993 Code, § 60.15) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.16 OPEN CONTAINERS.
   No person shall possess any alcoholic beverage in an open container in any
outside public place, parking lot, or other outside public facility used by an
establishment which serves or provides alcoholic beverages. There is exempted
from this provision any individual who possesses alcoholic beverages in an open
container in any outside public place, parking lot, or other outside public
facility which is connected with or used in conjunction with a festival, the
operator of which has obtained a special temporary license, which license
permits the operation of the outdoor festival if the festival is conducted no
more than three days semiannually.
(1993 Code, § 60.16) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §§
111.06 through
111.09 and
111.14 through
111.16 shall be fined in an amount of not more than $50, imprisoned not more
than 20 days, or both fined and imprisoned. Each violation of any separate
clause shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation selling distilled spirits, wines,
and/or cereal or malt beverages, either draft or in containers, at retail for
consumption on the premises or any person, firm, or corporation selling cereal
or malt beverages at retail by the package for consumption off the premises on
any Sunday without first having obtained the license required under §
111.11 (A)(8) shall be fined in an amount of not more than $100, imprisoned not
more than 30 days, or both fined and imprisoned. Each Sunday of violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
(1993 Code, § 60.99) (Ord. 24-02, passed 1-17-2024)
CHAPTER 112: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
Insurance Company License Fee
   
112.01   Imposition
   
112.02   Fee
   
112.03   Due date
   
112.04   Insurance categories
   
112.05   Transmittal
INSURANCE COMPANY LICENSE FEE
§ 112.01 IMPOSITION.
   There is hereby imposed upon each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city for the calendar year 1985 and thereafter on a calendar-year basis.
(1993 Code, § 63.01)
§ 112.02 FEE.
   (A)   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues
insurance policies, which are not life insurance or health insurance policies,
shall be 10% of the premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by
reason of the issuance of the policies on risks located within the corporate
limits of the city on those classes of business which the company is authorized
to transact, less all premiums returned to the policy holders.
   (B)   However, any license fee imposed upon premium receipts shall not
include premiums received for insuring employers against liability for personal
injuries to their employees or for death caused thereby under the provisions of
the Workers’ Compensation Act.
(1993 Code, § 63.02) (Ord. 93-03, passed 8-4-1993; Ord. 01-05, passed 8-21-
2001; Ord. 1-04, passed 3-17-2004)
§ 112.03 DUE DATE.
   The license fee imposed by this subchapter shall be due no later than 30
days after the end of each calendar quarter. Any license fee which is not paid
on or before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as
defined in the state statutes.
(1993 Code, § 63.03)
§ 112.04 INSURANCE CATEGORIES.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fee imposed by this
subchapter shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city with a written
breakdown of all collections in the preceding calendar year for the following
categories of insurance: casualty, automobile, inland marine, and fire and
allied perils.
(1993 Code, § 63.04)
§ 112.05 TRANSMITTAL.
   The City Clerk is hereby directed to transmit a copy of this subchapter and
any amendment thereto to the State Commissioner of Insurance.
(1993 Code, § 63.05)
CHAPTER 113: SATELLITE-RECEIVING ANTENNAS
Section
   
113.01   Definition
   
113.02   Antenna permit and construction requirements
   
113.03   Antenna location in a residential district
   
113.04   Antenna location in a business district
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SATELLITE-RECEIVING ANTENNA. An accessory structure whose purpose is to
receive communication or other signals from orbiting satellites and other
extraterrestrial sources and which consists of three main components: the
antenna itself (often called a “dish”); a low-noise amplifier (LNA); and a
receiver. The antenna and the LNA are located outdoors and are connected by a
coaxial cable to the receiver, which is placed indoors. The height of the
antenna shall be measured vertically from the highest point of the signal-
receiving apparatus when positioned for operation to the bottom of the base
which supports the antenna.
(1993 Code, § 53.02)
§ 113.02 ANTENNA PERMIT AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Before proceeding with the construction, alteration, or repair of a
satellite-receiving antenna within the city, a permit shall be first obtained
by the owner or his or her agent from the city.
   (B)   Each satellite-receiving antenna shall comply with B.O.C.A. and FCC
requirements.
   (C)   The construction and installation of each satellite-receiving antenna
shall conform to all applicable city building code and electrical code
regulations and requirements.
   (D)   Each satellite-receiving antenna shall be filtered and/or shielded so
as to prevent the emission of radio frequency energy that would cause any
harmful interference with the radio and/or television broadcasting or reception
on adjacent properties. If harmful interference is caused subsequent to the
granting of a permit, the owner of the dish antenna shall promptly take steps
to eliminate the harmful interference in accordance with all applicable
regulations.
   (E)   Each satellite-receiving antenna shall serve only the building located
on the zoning lot upon which the satellite-receiving antenna is constructed.
   (F)   The satellite-receiving antenna shall be constructed of noncombustible
and corrosive-resistant material.
   (G)   The satellite-receiving antenna shall be constructed and erected in a
secure and wind-resistant manner. The antenna shall be wind-resistant enough to
withstand 85 mph winds normally and 70 mph winds when combined with ice without
sustaining damage.
   (H)   The satellite-receiving antenna must be adequately grounded for
protection against a direct strike of lightning.
(1993 Code, § 53.03) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 ANTENNA LOCATION IN A RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Generally. A satellite-receiving antenna may be located in any
residential district, provided as follows.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   It shall be neutral in color and bear no advertising emblem or
information, other than the name of the manufacturer in letters not to exceed
two inches in height.
      (2)   It shall be compatible with the appearance and character of the
neighborhood.
      (3)   There shall be no more than one per lot.
      (4)   It shall not exceed ten feet in diameter.
      (5)   Satellite-receiving antennas larger than 18 inches in diameter
shall not be roof- or house-mounted.
      (6)   It must be located in the rear yard a minimum of five feet from any
lot line.
      (7)   The full impact of the antenna shall be effectively screened by a
fence, wall, or dense screening hedge to a maximum height of six feet. The
fence or hedge shall be located close to the antenna and shall comply with all
applicable zoning requirements.
      (8)   Satellite-receiving antennas 18 inches in diameter or smaller, if
roof- or house-mounted, should be mounted in the rear section of the roof or
house. However, the antenna may be mounted on the sides or in the front of the
house, if it is done no more than 18 inches from the center of the receiving
antenna to the bottom of the eave and/or gutter. The antenna may not be mounted
upon the front section of any roof.
(1993 Code, § 53.04) (Ord. 95-01, passed 5-3-1995; Ord. 00-14, passed 1-3-2001)
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 ANTENNA LOCATION IN A BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Generally. A satellite-receiving antenna may be located in any
business district, provided as follows.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   It shall be neutral in color and bear no advertising emblem or
information, other than the name of the manufacturer in letters not to exceed
two inches in height.
      (2)   It shall be compatible with the appearance and character of the
neighborhood.
      (3)   There shall be no more than one per lot or per building, whichever
is less.
      (4)   It shall not exceed 12 feet in diameter.
      (5)   Satellite-receiving antennas larger than 18 inches in diameter
shall not be roof- or house-mounted.
      (6)   It shall not be located between a building and a front lot line.
      (7)   The full impact of the antenna shall be reduced by screening. If
the subject parcel adjoins a residential district, the antenna shall be placed
a minimum of five feet from any lot line and shall be effectively screened by a
fence, wall, or dense screening hedge to a maximum height of six feet. The
fence, wall, or hedge shall be located on or near the lot line bounding the
residential district and shall otherwise comply with the applicable zoning
requirements governing its location.
(1993 Code, § 53.05)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this ordinance
shall be fined an amount of not less than $10 nor more than $500 per
occurrence. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(1993 Code, § 53.99)
CHAPTER 114: SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
Nudity
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Performance
   
114.03   Permission
 
   
114.99   Penalty
NUDITY
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. A business within the city where liquor, beer, and/
or wine is sold for consumption on the premises pursuant to a retail drink
liquor license and/or a retail cereal or malt beverage license that has been
issued by the city.
   LICENSE. A retail drink liquor license or a retail cereal or malt beverage
license that has been issued by the city.
   LICENSEE. Any person to whom a retail drink liquor license and/or a retail
cereal or malt beverage license has been issued by the city, including the
officers and agents of the licensee.
   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE. The occupational license that has been issued for the
business establishment pursuant to the occupational license ordinance of the
city.
   PERSON. A human being and, where appropriate, a public or private
corporation, unincorporated association, partnership, government, or
governmental authority.
   PREMISES. The land and building in and upon which any business establishment
regulated by alcoholic beverage statutes conducts its business.
   RETAIL LICENSEE. Any licensee who sells at retail any alcoholic beverage,
which sale requires an occupational license, including the officers and agents
of the retail licensee.
(1993 Code, § 61.01)
§ 114.02 PERFORMANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for, and a person is guilty of, performing nude or
nearly nude activities when that person appears on the premises of a business
establishment in such a manner or in the attire so as to expose to view any
portion of the pubic area, anus, vulva, genitals, or any simulation thereof or
when any female appears on the premises of a business establishment in such a
manner or in the attire so as to expose to view any portion of the breast
referred to as the areola, nipple, or any simulation thereof.
(1993 Code, § 61.02) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 PERMISSION.
   A licensee or retail licensee is guilty of permitting nude or nearly nude
activities when, having control of the premises of the business establishment
which the licensee or retail licensee knows, or has reasonable cause to know,
is being used by any person to appear on the premises in such a manner or in
the attire so as to expose to view any portion of the pubic area, anus, vulva,
genitals, or any simulation thereof or is being used by any female to appear on
the premises in such a manner or in the attire so as to expose to view any
portion of the breast referred to as the areola, nipple, or any simulation
thereof, the licensee or retail licensee permits the activities or fails to
make a reasonable and timely effort to halt or abate the activities or use.
(1993 Code, § 61.03) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §§
114.02 and/or
114.03 for the first time within a 12-month period shall be subject to the
punishment set forth in the state statutes.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §§
114.02 and/or
114.03 for the second time within a 12-month period shall be subject to the
punishment set forth in the state statutes for a Class B misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §§
114.02 and/or
114.03 for three or more times within a 12-month period shall be subject to the
punishment set forth in the state statutes for a Class A misdemeanor.
   (D)   If a violation of §§
114.02 and/or
114.03 occurs, the Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator shall forthwith
conduct a hearing pursuant to the state statutes to determine whether the
licensee or retail licensee at whose business establishment the activities
prohibited by §§
114.01 through
114.03 occurred shall have his or her license suspended or revoked. If three or
more violations of §§
114.02 and/or
114.03 occur at a business establishment within a 12-month period, the
Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator, after a hearing, shall revoke the
retail drink liquor license, retail cereal or malt beverage license, or both.
   (E)   If a violation of §§
114.02 and/or
114.03 occurs, the Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator shall prefer
charges against the licensee or retail licensee pursuant to this code. After
proper notice, a hearing shall be held by the City Council, and the
occupational license of the licensee or retail licensee shall either be revoked
or suspended.
(1993 Code, § 61.99)
CHAPTER 115: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Coin-Operated Machines
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Application
   
115.03   License stamp
   
115.04   Prosecution
   
115.05   Fee
   
115.06   Nontransferability
   
115.07   Term
   
115.08   Churches and other places of worship and schools
   
115.09   Hours
 
   
115.99   Penalty
COIN-OPERATED MACHINES
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COIN. Any lawful coin, token, chip, check, or other article used to operate
a coin-operated machine.
   COIN-OPERATED MACHINE. Any coin-operated machine or device which contains no
element of chance and which, as a result of depositing a coin, through some
mechanical operation, affords music or amusement of some character, with or
without vending merchandise.
   LICENSE STAMP. The stamp or card evidencing payment of the fee established
hereunder.
(1993 Code, § 62.01)
§ 115.02 APPLICATION.
   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to set up or offer for operation
within the city any coin-operated machine or other kind of for-profit
entertainment, amusement, or a combination of merchandise, entertainment, or
amusement shall first make an application for a license. This application shall
be in writing submitted to the City Clerk on the form approved by the City
Council and shall be accompanied by an affidavit sworn to by the applicant to
the effect that the operation of the coin-operated machine for which the
license is desired is not prohibited by law.
(1993 Code, § 62.02) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.03 LICENSE STAMP.
   (A)   The license required shall be procured by the owner of the coin-
operated machine; however, any operator, lessee, or other person or his or her
agent or receiver offering the coin-operated machine for operation and in whose
place of business or establishment the coin-operated machine is offered to the
public for operation shall be jointly and severally liable with the owner for
procuring the license.
   (B)   No person shall operate, permit to be operated, or use for gain or
profit any coin-operated machine unless and until a license stamp evidencing
payment of the fee is permanently affixed to and on the coin-operated machine
in such a manner as may be prescribed by the City Council.
   (C)   No person shall operate, permit to be operated, or use for gain or
profit any coin-operated machine which does not have on its face instructions
as to its operation and what, if anything, the user of the coin-operated
machine may expect to receive by reason of his or her depositing a coin.
(1993 Code, § 62.03) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.04 PROSECUTION.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to legalize the operation of
any coin-operated machine otherwise unlawful, and neither payment of the fee or
the affixing of a license stamp on an illegal coin-operated machine shall be a
bar to prosecution for the illegal possession or operation of any illegal coin-
operated machine.
(1993 Code, § 62.04)
§ 115.05 FEE.
   The fee for a coin-operated machine shall be $10 per annum for the first
coin receptacle on each machine, plus $2.50 per annum for each additional coin
receptacle on each machine.
(1993 Code, § 62.05)
§ 115.06 NONTRANSFERABILITY.
   The license stamp shall not be transferable from one coin-operated machine
to another, but shall remain with the coin-operated machine for which it was
originally issued. If the licensed coin-operated machine is sold or
transferred, the City Clerk shall be notified so that he or she may affect the
proper records.
(1993 Code, § 62.06)
§ 115.07 TERM.
   All licenses issued under this subchapter shall be obtained on or before
July 1 and shall expire on the following June 30 of each year; however, any
person may procure a license, to be effective only between January 1 and June
30 of any year, by paying a sum equal to one-half of the annual license fee.
(1993 Code, § 62.07)
§ 115.08 CHURCHES AND OTHER PLACES OF WORSHIP AND SCHOOLS.
   All churches and other places of worship and schools are exempted from
paying any and all fees imposed by this subchapter on coin-operated machines
owned by those churches or schools.
(1993 Code, § 62.08)
§ 115.09 HOURS.
   No coin-operated music-producing machine shall be operated, used, or played
between the hours of 3:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(1993 Code, § 62.09) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this
subchapter shall be fined in an amount of not less than $10 nor more than $100.
Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   If any person, firm, or corporation required to obtain a license and
pay a fee pursuant to this subchapter violates or fails to comply with any
provision of this subchapter or fails to pay the fee on time as required, it
shall be the duty of the City Clerk to revoke the license, and the Police Chief
is directed to obtain the license from the violator. In the case of the
revocation, the licenses of all coin-operated machines operated by the licensee
shall be revoked and the coin-operated machines removed from the premises
within 24 hours. Any person, firm, or corporation whose license has been
revoked shall not be eligible to apply for or receive a new license within a
period of one year after the revocation.
   (C)   A conviction under this subchapter and the imposition of a penalty
shall not excuse any person, firm, or corporation from paying the fee which is
due and unpaid at the time of conviction; nor shall it act as a bar in any
civil action brought to effect the recovery of any fee, penalty, and interest.
Any person required to obtain a license or pay a fee pursuant to this
subchapter who fails to obtain the license and pay the fee at the time required
shall have added to the fee a penalty of 10% of the fee owing, with 12%
interest until paid.
(1993 Code, § 62.99)
CHAPTER 116: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   License requirements
   
116.03   Exemptions
   
116.04   Application procedure
   
116.05   Standards for issuance
   
116.06   Suspension and revocation procedure
   
116.07   Standards for revocation
   
116.08   Appeal procedure
   
116.09   Exhibition of licenses
   
116.10   Hours of solicitation
   
116.11   No soliciting/peddling list
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business or activities carried on by any person who is an
itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   CANVASSER. A person who engages in canvassing activities.
   CANVASSING. The act of going upon property or approaching people to discuss
or explain issues, which shall include religious proselytizing, exercising an
individual's freedom of speech or campaigning for political votes, or political
petition drives, or any other such political, religious, protected speech.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale, or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city.
   SOLICITATION. The solicitation of contributions, the sales of goods or
services or pledges, orders or subscriptions therefore, including, without
limitation, the activities of those historically known and identified as
peddlers, hawkers, itinerant vendors and transient merchants.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future, or who approaches people to ask
for, request, or seek monetary contributions, donations, or support for a
commercial, or for profit enterprise or business.
(Ord. 19-06, passed 5-5-2019)
§ 116.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter upon residential property
within the City of Southgate without being invited to do so by the owners or
occupants of the subject property in order to peddle and/or solicit city
residents by knocking upon residential doors, or by ringing doorbells, or to
otherwise, so as to cause or attempt to cause residents to open their doors,
UNLESS, the person doing the peddling and/or soliciting activity has first
registered with the City Clerk, and received a license to solicit or peddle
from the City Clerk.
   (B)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (C)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be $20 per
application, except from charitable applicants who shall be exempt from payment
of the fee.
   (D)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable or
assignable.
   (E)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall extend to the end of the
calendar year in which it is issued.
   (F)   This chapter prohibits any person who is an itinerant merchant,
peddler, or solicitor, from distributing any handbills, advertisements, or
commercially related solicitation documents without first having obtained a
license from the City Clerk, through application during normal business hours,
Monday through Friday (holidays excluded). This chapter is not intended to
prevent the lawful distribution of written materials other than commercial
solicitation and business advertising.
(Ord. 19-06, passed 5-5-2019)
§ 116.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Individuals who are not engaged in for-profit, commercial enterprises
shall be exempt from the fee required by §
116.02. These include:
      (1)   Children under 18 years of age soliciting or peddling on behalf of
a non-profit school, governmental organization, or youth club or ministry, such
as Boy Scouts or Girl Scouts;
      (2)   Persons soliciting on behalf of a non-profit or neighborhood
organization for either donations to or membership in such organization;
      (3)   Persons peddling donated merchandise on behalf of a non-profit
organization where the proceeds of the sale are used for charitable purposes;
      (4)   Persons peddling on behalf of a religious organization where the
proceeds of the sale are used to support such organization or for a charitable
purpose; and
      (5)   Persons engaged in canvassing for religious or political purposes.
   (B)   Individuals who meet the exemptions listed above are not required to
register with the city and are not required to obtain any license prior to
engaging in solicitations, peddling, or canvassing.
   (C)   Individuals who meet the exemptions listed above may engage in
solicitation, peddling, or canvassing any day of the week from 10:00 a.m. until
7:30 p.m., local time, or until dusk, whichever is earlier.
(Ord. 19-06, passed 5-5-2019)
§ 116.04 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file a
written, sworn application with the Clerk during normal business hours, Monday
through Friday and excluding holidays. This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president of a corporation. Applications should be made on forms available in
the office of the Clerk. The application shall state:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant:
      (2)   Purpose for the solicitation, including:
         (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business;
      (5)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
      (6)   If requested by the Clerk, copies of all printed advertising
proposed to be used in connection with the applicant's business;
      (7)   Applicants for licenses shall produce a government-issued photo ID
for each person who will be peddling or soliciting in the city.
(Ord. 19-06, passed 5-5-2019)
§ 116.05 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application which complies with all requirements of
this chapter, the Clerk shall issue a license, identifying each solicitor or
peddler, by name and address. Peddlers and solicitors shall carry a license at
all times while peddling or soliciting within the city, and shall show the
license to residents prior to or simultaneous with any peddling and/or
soliciting activities.
   (B)   The City Clerk may revoke any license, and/or demand its return from
any solicitor or peddler who violates the terms of this chapter, or makes a
misrepresentation, or provides false or misleading information, on the
application.
   (C)   The City Clerk may deny or revoke any registration in the event that
any peddler and/or solicitor is found to have been convicted of any felony, or
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude or fraud.
(Ord. 19-06, passed 5-5-2019)
§ 116.06 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the
City Clerk after notice and hearing. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be
given in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds for the complaint and
the time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee
at his or her last known address, at least ten days prior to the date set for
the hearing.
   (B)   If the City Clerk has probable cause to revoke a license granted under
this chapter, then the City Clerk may suspend the license pending a hearing.
(Ord. 19-06, passed 5-5-2019)
§ 116.07 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
(Ord. 19-06, passed 5-5-2019)
§ 116.08 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   Any person aggrieved by a decision under the previous sections shall have
the right to appeal to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken by filing
with the City Clerk within 14 days after notice of the decision has been mailed
to such person's last known address, a written statement setting forth the
grounds for the appeal. The City Council shall set the time and place for a
hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to such person in the same
manner as provided above. The order of the legislative body after the hearing
shall be final.
(Ord. 19-06, passed 5-5-2019)
§ 116.09 EXHIBITION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   Peddlers or solicitors shall exhibit their license at the request of
any citizen.
(Ord. 19-06, passed 5-5-2019)
§ 116.10 HOURS OF SOLICITATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler, solicitor, or itinerant merchant to
solicit, or peddle on a door-to- door type basis in the corporate limits of the
city on any day other than between the hours of 10:00 a.m. to 7:30 p.m., local
time, or until dusk, whichever is earlier.
(Ord. 19-06, passed 5-5-2019)
§ 116.11 NO SOLICITING/PEDDLING LIST.
   (A)   A city resident may, consistent with zoning regulations governing
signage, post or display a "No Soliciting" or similar signs on the front door
of his or her dwelling or residence. It shall be a violation of this chapter
for any peddler, solicitor, or itinerant merchant to go upon any property that
the owner or resident has posted a "No Soliciting" sign.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall maintain a list of addresses of the city
residents who have notified the City Clerk in writing that they do not wish
peddlers, itinerant merchants, and solicitors to enter upon their property. A
copy of this list shall be provided along with and as part of any license
issued under this chapter. It shall be a violation of this chapter for a
peddler, itinerant merchant, or solicitor to go upon any property on the list.
(Ord. 19-06, passed 5-5-2019)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to any other penalty, each separate violation of this
chapter is hereby classified as a civil offense for which:
      (1)   The civil fine shall that shall be imposed if the citation is not
contested is hereby established as $250;
      (2)   The maximum civil fine that may be imposed for each separate
violation of this chapter is hereby established as $500; and
      (3)   An enforcement officer may, in lieu of immediately issuing a civil
citation for violation of this chapter, give notice that the violation of this
chapter shall be remedied within a specific period of time.
   (B)   Anyone convicted of a second or subsequent violation of this chapter
within a period of one year shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor, subject
to a criminal fine not to exceed the maximum amount of $500 and/or a term of
imprisonment not to exceed the maximum period of 12 months.
(Ord. 19-06, passed 5-5-2019)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES INVOLVING MINORS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
132.   DANGEROUS ACTIVITIES AND SUBSTANCES
      
133.   FELON REGISTRATION
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES INVOLVING MINORS
Section
Curfew
   
130.01   Definition
   
130.02   Time
   
130.03   Parental responsibility
   
130.04   Violators
   
130.05   Nonresident violators
   
130.06   Exceptions
Consumption of Alcoholic Beverages by Minors
   
130.20   Definitions
   
130.21   Responsibility of the property owner
   
130.22   Parental responsibility
 
   
130.99   Penalty
CURFEW
§ 130.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any restaurant, lunch stand, place of amusement, and any and
all places wherein the public may gather or congregate.
(1993 Code, § 70.01)
§ 130.02 TIME.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to remain in
and upon any sidewalk, street, avenue, lane, alley, or other public place
within the city between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. the following
day, except for Friday and Saturday where the curfew hours will be between 11:
00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. the following day. For the period of each year commencing
on May 1 and ending on September 30, the established curfew time shall be 11:00
p.m. This subchapter will not apply if the minor is accompanied by a parent,
guardian, or other adult individual having legal custody of the minor.
(1993 Code, § 70.02) (Ord. 97-09, passed 8-6-1997; Ord. 97-11, passed 10-1-
1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian, or other person having legal
care, custody, or control of any person under the age of 18 years to allow,
permit, or suffer the minor to remain in or about any sidewalk, street, avenue,
lane, alley, or other public place within the city unaccompanied between the
hours set forth in §
130.02.
(1993 Code, § 70.03) (Ord. 97-09, passed 8-6-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 VIOLATORS.
   No person under the age of 18 years apprehended under §
130.02 shall be placed in confinement. The minor shall be taken to his or her
home and the parent, guardian, or legal custodian of the minor shall be
notified to appear with the minor in County Juvenile Court in accordance with
state law.
(1993 Code, § 70.04) (Ord. 97-09, passed 8-6-1997)
§ 130.05 NONRESIDENT VIOLATORS.
   Any person under the age of 18 years who is apprehended for a violation of §
130.02 and who is not a resident of the city shall be taken to the City
Building or Police Department. The parent, guardian, or legal custodian of the
minor and the minor so cited shall be notified to appear before the County
Juvenile Court in accordance with state law. If the parent, guardian, or legal
custodian of the minor cannot be contacted, then the minor shall be referred to
an office of the County Juvenile Court.
(1993 Code, § 70.05) (Ord. 97-09, passed 8-6-1997)
§ 130.06 EXCEPTIONS.
   In the following exceptional cases, a minor in or upon any public assembly,
building, place, street, or highway in the city during the nocturnal hours
provided for in §
130.02 shall not be considered in violation of this subchapter:
   (A)   When the minor is accompanied by a parent or guardian;
   (B)   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent or guardian of
such minor;
   (C)   When exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly, provided that written notice signed by the minor and
countersigned by a parent is in the possession of such minor specifying when,
where, and in what manner the minor will be exercising such First Amendment
rights;
   (D)   In case of reasonable necessity but only after the minor’s parent has
communicated to the Police Department the facts establishing such reasonable
necessity;
   (E)   When the minor is on the sidewalk of the place where the minor
resides, or on the sidewalk of either next-door neighbor who has not
communicated an objection to a police officer or the Police Department;
   (F)   When returning home, by a direct route from, and within one hour of
the termination of, a school activity, or any activity of a religious or other
voluntary association, provided that justification indicating the place and
time of termination of the event can be given to any investigating officer of
the Police Department;
   (G)   When authorized by regulation issued by the Police Chief in cases of
reasonable necessity involving more minors than may reasonably be dealt with on
an individual basis. The regulation should be issued sufficiently in advance to
permit publicity through news media and through other agencies such as the
schools. The regulation shall define the activity, the scope of the use of the
public assembly, building, place, street, or highway permitted, and the period
of time involved not to extend more than one hour beyond the time for
termination of the activity, and the reason for finding that the regulation is
reasonably necessary.
   (H)   When engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of Kentucky
authorize a person under 18 years of age to perform;
   (I)   When the minor is, with parental consent, in a motor vehicle with a
lawfully authorized driver; and
   (J)   When the minor, who is a duly authorized and licensed driver, is
operating a motor vehicle within the city for the purpose of passing through,
by direct route, from one location to another either within or out of the city,
including all minors that may also be within the vehicle.
(Ord. 97-10, passed 10-1-1997)
CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES BY MINORS
§ 130.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES and MALT BEVERAGES. Shall have the meanings given to
them in the state statutes.
(1993 Code, § 75.01)
§ 130.21 RESPONSIBILITY OF THE PROPERTY OWNER.
   No person who is the owner or occupant or who is otherwise in possession
and/or control of any property located within the city, through the exercise of
reasonable diligence, shall allow any person under 21 years of age to remain on
the property while in possession of alcoholic or malt beverages or while
consuming alcoholic or malt beverages unless the alcoholic or malt beverages
are given by a physician in the regular line of medical practice, by a parent,
or by a legal guardian.
(1993 Code, § 75.02) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.22 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   No person who is the parent or guardian or who otherwise has the care,
custody, or control of any minor knowingly shall allow the minor to violate any
provision of this subchapter or shall aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or
contribute to the violation of any provision of this subchapter by the minor,
including, without limitation, allowing a minor having a proclivity for the
possession or consumption of alcoholic or malt beverages to be in the
possession of property located within the city under circumstances such that a
reasonably responsible adult should have known that a violation of this
subchapter was likely to occur thereon.
(1993 Code, § 75.03) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
130.20 through
130.22 for the first time shall be fined in an amount of not less than $5, nor
more than $250. Any person violating any provision of §§
130.20 through
130.22 for two or more times during a one-year period shall be fined in an
amount of not less than $250, nor more than $500.
(1993 Code, § 75.99)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
Destruction of City Property
   
131.01   Reparations
   
131.02   Procedure
   
131.03   Payment
 
   
131.99   Penalty
DESTRUCTION OF CITY PROPERTY
§ 131.01 REPARATIONS.
   Any person in any manner damaging or destroying public property which is
within the city and which is owned by the city, over which the city has
jurisdiction or control, or for which the city is responsible, shall pay for
the repair or replacement of the public property and shall reimburse the city
for the damage done to the public property in the sum specifically stated. This
charge shall be deemed to be the amount of the actual loss to the city and
shall be construed merely as a charge to restore or replace the public
property. It shall not be considered a fine or to preclude the assessment of a
fine in any criminal proceedings for the punishment of any offender guilty of
and liable for the damage or destruction.
(1993 Code, § 73.01) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 PROCEDURE.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Chief to apprehend the party causing the
damage or destruction to the public property, take the party in custody to the
City Clerk, and there require that the charge be paid to the City Clerk. If the
party fails to pay the charge, the Police Chief shall cause a warrant to be
issued against the person causing the damage or malicious destruction of the
public property and shall serve the warrant immediately.
(1993 Code, § 73.02) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 PAYMENT.
   The City Clerk is authorized to accept payment as provided in this
subchapter from the person proffering it, issue a receipt, and account the
payment to the City Treasurer in his or her regular monthly settlement.
(1993 Code, § 73.03)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of §§
131.01 through
131.03 shall be fined in an amount of not more than $25.
(1993 Code, § 73.99)
CHAPTER 132: DANGEROUS ACTIVITIES AND SUBSTANCES
Section
Toxic Glues
   
132.01   Definition
   
132.02   Possession, sale, or transfer
   
132.03   Intoxication
Hunting and Firearms
   
132.15   Prohibition
   
132.16   Dangerous missiles
 
   
132.99   Penalty
TOXIC GLUES
§ 132.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TOXIC GLUE. Any glue, adhesive, cement, mucilage, plastic solvent, or other
adhesive containing toluene, acetone, xylene, butyl alcohol, hexane, tricresyl
phosphate, or other toxic ingredients.
(1993 Code, § 71.01)
§ 132.02 POSSESSION, SALE, OR TRANSFER.
   No person shall, for the purpose of violating or aiding another to violate
any provision of this subchapter, intentionally possess, buy, sell, transfer,
or receive any toxic glue. No person shall sell or transfer the possession of
any toxic glue to another person under 21 years of age. One tube of glue may be
sold at any one time to a person under 21 years of age, provided that the tube
is included in a kit for the assembly of a model airplane, automobile, boat, or
other unassembled model. If the kit does not have glue packaged therein, the
kit shall be sold in conjunction with the sale of one tube of glue.
(1993 Code, § 71.02) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 INTOXICATION.
   No person shall inhale, drink, eat, or otherwise introduce into his or her
respiratory or circulatory system any toxic glue with the intent of becoming
intoxicated, elated, paralyzed, or irrational or in any manner changing,
distorting, or disturbing his or her eyesight, thinking processes, judgment,
balance, or coordination. For the purposes of this subchapter, any such
condition so induced shall be deemed to be an intoxicated condition.
(1993 Code, § 71.03) Penalty, see §
132.99
HUNTING AND FIREARMS
§ 132.15 PROHIBITION.
   The discharge of firearms of any character within the city is prohibited.
The hunting of any game or fowl within the city is likewise prohibited. Nothing
herein contained shall prevent a property owner from protecting his or her
property, crops, flowers, or any accretions thereto from destruction by the
game or fowl, regardless of the manner of so doing, so long as he or she does
not endanger the life or property of others. The protection to his or her
property may be afforded by the property owner in person or by his or her duly
authorized agent specially commissioned for this service.
(1993 Code, § 74.01) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.16 DANGEROUS MISSILES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge from a catapult, rubber
sling, air rifle, or other weapon or instrument a projectile of any kind within
the city.
(1993 Code, § 74.02) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of §§
132.01 through
132.03 shall be fined in an amount of not more than $500, imprisoned not more
than six months, or both fined and imprisoned.
(1993 Code, § 71.99)
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
132.15 shall be fined in an amount of not less than $100, nor more than $250.
Any person violating any provision of §
132.16 shall be fined in an amount of not less than $25, nor more than $250.
(1993 Code, § 74.99)
CHAPTER 133: FELON REGISTRATION
Section
   
133.01   Registration
   
133.02   Required information
   
133.03   Confidentiality
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 REGISTRATION.
   Any person convicted of a felony in any state or federal court shall, if the
conviction has occurred within five years next from the date of his or her
residing within or visiting the city, register with the Police Chief and
furnish him or her with the information required.
(1993 Code, § 72.01) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.02 REQUIRED INFORMATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any person convicted of a felony establishing a residence
within or visiting the city shall, within hours, register with the Police Chief
and supply him or her with the following information.
   (B)   Information.
      (1)   He or she shall give his or her true name, address of residence or
place of visitation, and the name of the owner thereof.
      (2)   He or she shall give the date, place, and nature of his or her
felony conviction and all prior felony convictions, if any, and also all names
or aliases now used or assumed by him or her.
      (3)   He or she shall give his or her present place of employment or his
or her occupation and shall also give his or her age, weight, and height. If
required, he or she shall submit to fingerprinting for the record.
      (4)   After the registration, if the person registering changes his or
her residence address or place of visitation, he or she shall, within 24 hours,
notify the Police Chief of the change.
(1993 Code, § 72.02) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.03 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   All information shall be furnished on a form to be provided by the city and
signed by the person registering. Records shall be deemed confidential records
of the Police Department and shall not be disclosed or divulged to any person
without the consent of the Police Chief.
(1993 Code, § 72.03)
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined in an
amount of not more than $500, imprisoned not more than six months, or both
fined and imprisoned.
(1993 Code, § 72.99)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152.   BUILDING CODE
      
153.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
154.   ZONING CODE
      
155.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
156.   VACANT RESIDENTIAL REAL PROPERTY REGISTRATION
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
150.01   Statement of goals and objectives adopted
   
150.02   Fee schedule adopted
§ 150.01 STATEMENT OF GOALS AND OBJECTIVES ADOPTED.
   (A)   The city hereby adopts the updated statement of goals and objectives
which is attached to Ord. 91-12 and made a part hereof by reference.
   (B)   A copy of the statement of goals and objectives is hereby made a part
of the permanent records of the city and is on file in the City Clerk’s office.
   (C)   This section shall become effective and be in force from and after its
passage and publication according to law.
(1993 Code, § 80.01) (Ord. 91-12, passed 10-2-1991)
§ 150.02 FEE SCHEDULE ADOPTED.
   (A)   A revised fee schedule for the County Municipal Planning and Zoning
Commission and Building Department, a copy of which is attached to Ord. 05-05
and made a part hereof by reference, is hereby adopted by the city.
   (B)   The city further adopts approvals and payment structure as set forth
in the aforementioned adopted schedules.
   (C)   This section shall become effective and be in force from and after its
passage and publication according to law.
(Ord. 01-2000, passed 3-1-2000; Ord. 05-05, passed 6-7-2005)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
151.01   Designation of Local Administrator
   
151.02   Adoption of Campbell County revised flood damage prevention ordinance
§ 151.01 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The city hereby appoints the Floodplain Administrator of Campbell County to
administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter by granting or
denying development permits in the Special Flood Hazard Zones.
(Ord. 14-01, passed 2-19-2014)
§ 151.02 ADOPTION OF CAMPBELL COUNTY REVISED FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION ORDINANCE.
   The city adopts the most current Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) and flood
damage prevention ordinance and subsequent amendments, on file with Campbell
County.
   (A)   The flood damage prevention ordinance shall apply to all areas of
special flood hazard within the jurisdiction of the city as identified by the
Federal Emergency management Agency in the Flood Insurance Study for Campbell
County, and mandates that no structure or land in said areas shall hereafter be
located, or extended, converted or structurally altered without compliance with
its provisions;
   (B)   Requires the approval of the Floodplain Administrator and permit from
the City Mayor and the Kentucky Division of Water for the placement of new
construction, substantial improvements, or manufactured homes or businesses
within areas of special flood hazard;
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements be constructed with
materials and utility requirement resistant to flood damage and the lowest
floor of any residential or business structure constructed or substantially
improved shall have the lowest floor elevated to or above base flood elevation;
and
   (D)   Provides penalties and/or imprisonment for each day a violation of the
ordinance continues.
(Ord. 14-01, passed 2-19-2014)
CHAPTER 152: BUILDING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Scope
   
152.02   Authority of the Building Inspector
Adopted Codes
   
152.15   International Residential Code and State Residential Code, 2007
Edition, adopted
   
152.16   State Building Code adopted
   
152.17   International Property Maintenance Code, 2006 Edition, adopted
   
152.18   National Fire Code, 1978 Edition, adopted
   
152.19   Uniform State Building Code adopted
   
152.20   State Standards of Safety (Fire Prevention Code) adopted
Building Regulations
   
152.35   Cleaning and erosion requirements
   
152.36   Permits and inspections
   
152.37   Fees
   
152.38   Dangerous or unsafe structures
   
152.39   Complaint procedure
   
152.40   Liability
   
152.41   Street numbers
   
152.42   Electrical permits
   
152.43   Standards maintained by electricians
 
   
152.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire Prevention and Protection, see
Ch. 94
   Satellite-Receiving Antennas, see
Ch. 113
   Sewers, see
Ch. 51
   Streets and Sidewalks, see
Ch. 93
   Subdivision Regulations, see
Ch. 153
   Zoning Code, see
Ch. 154
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 SCOPE.
   No structure and/or premises shall hereafter be constructed, altered,
repaired, or removed, nor shall the equipment of any structure and/or premises
be constructed, installed, altered, repaired, or removed, within the city,
except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 81.01) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.02 AUTHORITY OF THE BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Generally. The Building Inspector shall be appointed by the City
Council to exercise any powers as are necessary or convenient to effectuate the
purposes and provisions of this chapter, including the following.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   The Building Inspector may enforce all provisions of this chapter
relative to the maintenance and repair of structures and/or premises within the
city.
      (2)   The Building Inspector may investigate the structural condition of
structures within the city to determine which are unfit for human habitation,
occupancy, or use.
      (3)   The Building Inspector may enter upon a structure and/or premises
for the purpose of making an examination, but the entry shall be made in such a
manner so as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the persons in
possession.
      (4)   The Building Inspector may seek in a court of competent
jurisdiction an order ceasing and desisting any owner, occupant, or other
person in charge of a structure and/or premises subject to the provisions of
this chapter from refusing, impeding, inhibiting, interfering with,
restricting, or obstructing the entry and free access to any part of the
structure and/or premises where an inspection authorized by this chapter is
sought.
      (5)   The Building Inspector may seek through a judicial officer the
administrative search warrants as are or may be necessary to enforce the
provisions of this chapter and, in obtaining the warrants, may make any oaths
or affirmations as are necessary in support thereof.
(1993 Code, § 81.02)
ADOPTED CODES
§ 152.15 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE AND STATE RESIDENTIAL CODE, 2007
EDITION, ADOPTED.
   (A)   A certain document, three copies of which are on file in the office of
the Department of Planning and Zoning within the County Fiscal Court, being
marked and designated as International Residential Code, including Appendix G,
In-Ground Swimming Pools, and Appendix K, Sound Transmission, as published by
the International Code Council, is hereby adopted as the code of the city for
regulating the design, construction, quality of materials, erection,
installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition
to, use, or maintenance of one- and two-family dwellings and townhouses not
more than three stories in height in the city and providing for the issuance of
permits and collection of fees therefore; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, conditions, and terms of the Kentucky Residential Code, 2007
edition, published by the International Code Council, on file in the office of
the County Fiscal Court, Department of Planning and Zoning, is hereby referred
to, adopted, and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this section.
   (B)   The following sections are hereby revised:
      (1)   Section R101.1, insert: “City of Southgate”; and
      (2)   Table R301.2(l), insert: table attached to ordinance codified
herein.
   (C)   The City Clerk is hereby ordered and directed to cause this section to
be published.
   (D)   This section, and the rules, regulations, provisions, requirements,
orders, and matters established and adopted hereby, shall take effect and be in
full force and effect when passed, published, and recorded according to law.
(Ord. 09-03, passed - -)
§ 152.16 STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Adoption of the State Building Code. The Kentucky Building Code,
promulgated by 815 KAR 7:120 and Kentucky Residential Code, promulgated in 815
KAR 7:125, by the Board of Housing, Buildings, and Construction, Commonwealth
of Kentucky, are to be enforced by the City of Southgate, Campbell County, of
the Commonwealth of Kentucky as if set out at length herein. A copy of said
Building Code and the Kentucky Residential Code is on file in the Office of the
County Clerk, and the Clerk shall at all times keep a copy of the said building
code for reference. An attested copy of this section shall be transmitted to
the Department of Housing, Buildings, and Construction of the commonwealth of
Kentucky.
   (B)   Designated enforcement officer. The Campbell County Fiscal Court
Department of Building Inspections shall be designated as the local enforcement
agent/agency for said Kentucky Building Code. All building code inspections
shall be performed by persons certified by the Kentucky Department of Housing,
Buildings, and Construction. All electrical inspections shall be performed by
persons certified by the Kentucky Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction as an electrical inspector.
   (C)   Building inspection program. Pursuant to KRS 198B.060(8), a building
inspection program is hereby established in the City of Southgate for
application to all buildings subject to 815 KAR 7:120, Kentucky Building Code.
   (D)   Permits and fees. The fees for permits and inspections shall be as
provided for in a separate schedule.
   (E)   Effective date. This section shall take effect and be in full force
when passed, published, and recorded according to law.
(Ord. 09-02, passed 4-15-2009; Ord. 16-03, passed 6-15-2016)
§ 152.17 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE, 2006 EDITION, ADOPTED.
   (A)   A certain document, one copy of which is on file in the office of the
City Clerk, being marked and designated as the International Property
Maintenance Code, 2006 Edition, as published by the International Code Council,
is hereby adopted as the property maintenance code of the city for regulating
and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings, and
structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities
and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures
are safe, sanitary, and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of
buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and the demolition
of any existing structures as herein provided; providing for the issuance of
permits and collection of fees therefore; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions, and terms of the property maintenance code
on file in the office of the City Clerk are hereby referred to, adopted, and
made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this section, with the additions,
insertions, deletions, and changes, if any, prescribed in division (B) below.
   (B)   The following sections of the International Property Maintenance Code,
2006 Edition, are hereby revised as follows:
      (1)   Section 101.1. Insert: “the City of Southgate, Campbell County,
Kentucky”;
      (2)   Section 102.3.
         (a)   Delete: “International Building Code”;
         (b)   Delete: “and the ICC Electrical Code”;
         (c)   Delete: “International Zoning Code”;
         (d)   Insert: “Kentucky Building Code, Kentucky Residential Code, NFPA
70 National Electrical Code, Kentucky Plumbing Code, International Energy
Conservation Code or any applicable code adopted and enforced by the State of
Kentucky.”; and
         (e)   Insert: “City of Southgate Zoning Ordinance.”
      (3)   Section 103.2.
         (a)   Delete “chief appointing authority” and replace with “Mayor.”;
and
         (b)   Delete “appointing authority” and replace with “Mayor.”
      (4)   Section 103.3. Delete in its entirety;
      (5)   Section 103.5. Delete in its entirety;
      (6)   Section 106.2. Insert: “, citation”;
      (7)   Section 106.3.
         (a)   Insert: “, citation”; and
         (b)   Insert: “either” and “class B” in second line.
      (8)   Section 106.4. Insert: “Only one Notice of Violation shall be sent
to the owner and/or occupant of a certain property regarding a specified
violation or violations per calendar year. All subsequent notices will be in
the form of a citation. Unless otherwise specified by Federal, state, county or
local law, the violation of any section of the International Property
Maintenance Code is a civil offense and shall be enforced pursuant to
Chapter 32 of the city code of ordinances;
      (9)   Section 111.2.
         (a)   Delete: “chief appointing authority”; and
         (b)   Insert: “Mayor with approval from City Council.”
      (10)   Section 111.2.1.
         (a)   Delete: “chief appointing authority”; and
         (b)   Insert: “Mayor with approval from City Council.”
      (11)   Section 111.7.
         (a)   Delete: “appropriate court for a writ of certiorari to correct
errors of law. Application for review shall be made in the manner and time
required by law following the filing of the decision in the office of the chief
administrative officer.”; and
         (b)   Insert: “Campbell County Circuit Court within thirty (30) days
of the final decision of the appeals board.”
      (12)   Section 201.3.
         (a)   Insert: “Kentucky Building Code, Kentucky Residential Code, City
of Southgate Zoning Ordinance, Kentucky Plumbing Code, NFPA 70 National
Electrical Code or any applicable code adopted and enforced by the State of
Kentucky”;
         (b)   Delete: “International Zoning Code”;
         (c)   Delete: “International Plumbing Code”; and
         (d)   Delete: “or the ICC Electrical Code.”
      (13)   Section 202.
         (a)   Insert: “MOTOR VEHICLE. As defined in §
92.01(A) of the City of Southgate Code of Ordinances.”; and
         (b)   Insert: “OUTDOOR STORAGE. The keeping of personal or business
property in any open space or outdoor area outside of a building or structure.
For the purpose of this definition, property shall not include items that were
originally designed for continuous outdoor use (ex: lawn furniture, grills,
playground equipment).”
      (14)   Section 302.1. Insert: “and all outdoor storage shall be removed”;
      (15)   Section 302.4. Insert: ten (10) inches”;
      (16)   Section 302.8. Delete in its entirety and replace with “No
inoperative, abandoned or unlicensed motor vehicle, trailer, recreational
vehicle, camper, boat or similar equipment shall be parked, kept or stored on
any premises, and no vehicle shall at any time be in a state of major
disassembly, disrepair, or in the process of being stripped or dismantled.
Painting of vehicles is prohibited unless conducted inside an approved spray
booth. All motor vehicles, trailers, recreational vehicles, campers, boats and
similar equipment shall be parked, kept or stored on a paved surface. All
trailers, recreational vehicles, campers, boats and similar equipment shall be
parked, kept or stored in the rear yard and may be parked, kept or stored in
the side yard behind the front structure line of the principal structure if
approved by the Board of Adjustment. In no case shall more than one trailer,
recreational vehicle, camper, boat or similar equipment be permitted outside of
an enclosed building on any premises. Exception: A vehicle of any type is
permitted to undergo major overhaul, including body work, provided that such
work is performed inside a structure or similarly enclosed area designed and
approved for such purposes.”;
      (17)   Section 303.2. Delete in its entirety and replace with “Enclosures
for swimming pools, hot tubs and spas shall be regulated by the Kentucky
Building Code, Kentucky Residential Code, the City of Southgate Zoning
Ordinance and any applicable codes adopted and enforced by the State of
Kentucky.”;
      (18)   Section 304.14. Insert: “April 1 to October 31";
      (19)   Section 401.3. Insert: “Kentucky Building Code, Kentucky
Residential Code or any applicable code adopted and enforced by the State of
Kentucky”;
      (20)   Section 505.1.
         (a)   Delete: “International Plumbing Code”; and
         (b)   Insert: “Kentucky Plumbing Code.”
      (21)   Section 602.2.
         (a)   Delete: “Appendix D of . . . International”; and
         (b)   Insert: “Kentucky.”
      (22)   Section 602.3.
         (a)   Insert: “October 1 to April 1";
         (b)   Delete: “Appendix D of . . . International”; and
         (c)   Insert: “Kentucky.”
      (23)   Section 602.4. Insert: “October 1 to April 1";
      (24)   Section 604.2.
         (a)   Delete: “ICC Electrical Code”; and
         (b)   Insert: “NFPA 70 National Electrical Code.”
      (25)   Section 702.1.
         (a)   Delete: “International Fire Code”; and
         (b)   Insert: “Kentucky Building Code and the International Fire
Code.”
      (26)   Section 702.2.
         (a)   Delete: “International Fire Code”; and
         (b)   Insert: “Kentucky Building Code and the International Fire
Code.”
      (27)   Section 702.3.
         (a)   Delete: “International Building Code”; and
         (b)   Insert: “Kentucky Building Code.”
      (28)   Section 704.1.
         (a)   Delete: “International Fire Code”; and
         (b)   Insert: “Kentucky Building Code and the International Fire
Code.”
      (29)   Section 704.2. Delete in its entirety and replace with “Shall be
installed and maintained in accordance with Chapter 94 of the City of Southgate
Code of Ordinances.”
   (C)   Nothing in this section or in the property maintenance code hereby
adopted shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding impending in any
court, or any rights acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or causes of
action acquired or existing, under any act or ordinance hereby repealed; nor
shall any just or legal right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired, or
affected by this section.
   (D)   The City Clerk is hereby ordered and directed to cause this section to
be published.
(Ord. 08-11, passed 6-4-2008; Am. Ord. 16-10, passed 10-19-2016)
§ 152.18 NATIONAL FIRE CODE, 1978 EDITION, ADOPTED.
   The city, by and through the City Council, approves and adopts the 1978
National Fire Code by reference and all subsequent revisions and amendments
thereto. The Code shall be applicable to and control the construction,
alteration, removal, demolition, equipment, use, occupancy, location, and
maintenance of all structures and/or premises within the city. A copy of the
1978 National Fire Code is available for inspection at the City Building at 122
Electric Avenue, Southgate, Kentucky. The primary responsibility for the
enforcement of the code herein adopted is placed with the Fire Department.
(1993 Code, § 81.05)
§ 152.19 UNIFORM STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The Uniform State Building Code, as established by the State Board of
Housing, Buildings, and Construction, is hereby adopted in full by this section
as if it were set out herein as a minimum standard for the construction,
alteration, and repair of any electrical wiring done within the effective area
of the this code. The standards shall be used by the Electrical Inspector in
making any inspections required under this code.
(1993 Code, § 81.15) (Ord. 91-07, passed 4-3-1991)
§ 152.20 STATE STANDARDS OF SAFETY (FIRE PREVENTION CODE) ADOPTED.
   (A)   The State Standards of Safety (Fire Prevention Code), as promulgated
in the State Administrative Regulations of the Department of Housing,
Buildings, and Construction, is hereby adopted in full. A copy of the Code is
available for inspection in the offices of the City Clerk at the City Building,
located at 122 Electric Avenue, Southgate, Kentucky.
   (B)   The Fire Chief is hereby designated as the local enforcement agent for
the Standards of Safety.
   (C)   All final decisions of the Fire Chief, in regard to the Standards of
Safety (Fire Prevention Code), are appealable to the City Board of Adjustment.
Any appeal must be made within 30 days of the final decision of the
aforementioned Fire Chief. An appeal to the Circuit Court may be taken within
30 days of the decision of the Board of Adjustment.
   (D)   The imposition of any penalty shall not preclude the city from
instituting an appropriate action or proceeding to prevent any unlawful
erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion,
maintenance, or use; to restrain, correct, or abate a violation; to prevent the
occupancy of a building, structure, or premises; or to prevent an illegal act,
conduct, business, or use in or about any structure and/or premises.
(1993 Code, § 81.16) (Ord. 91-15, passed 12-18-1991) Penalty, see §
152.99
BUILDING REGULATIONS
§ 152.35 CLEANING AND EROSION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All contractors, developers, builders, or owners who perform work or
are responsible for any activity being performed in the city shall in all
instances keep publicly dedicated rights-of-way free and clear of sand, dirt,
mud, stone, rock, lumber, bricks, pipes, building supplies/materials, or any
other articles or debris.
   (B)   All contractors, developers, builders, or owners shall properly sweep
and clean publicly dedicated rights-of-way of all sand, dirt, mud, stone, rock,
lumber, bricks, pipes, building supplies/materials, or any other articles or
debris deposited thereon either by them or at their behest, the sweeping and
cleaning to be done by dusk every day so that the public right-of-way is free
and clear of the aforementioned items and/or deposits.
   (C)   All contractors, developers, builders, or owners shall be responsible
to perform all work necessary to prevent or minimize erosion and/or washing
away of mud, dirt, sand, stone, rock, and debris from lots, whether being
developed or not, and land, whether the erosion is caused by rain,
thunderstorms, snow, ice, or any other phenomena, the prevention and
minimization to consist at a very minimum of proper installation of silt fences
and hay or straw bale placement.
   (D)   All contractors, developers, builders, or owners shall perform all
work necessary to prevent and/or minimize erosion of lots, whether developed or
not, or land as directed by the City Building Inspector so as to prevent or
minimize erosion and/or washing away from lots, whether being developed or not,
and land, whether the erosion is caused by rain, thunderstorms, snow, ice, or
any other phenomena.
   (E)   This section shall become effective and be in force from and after its
passage and publication according to law.
(Ord. 96-03, passed 6-22-1996) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.36 PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation desirous of erecting, adding to, or
altering any structure and/or premises shall apply to the Building Inspector
for a permit to do so. A permit will also be required for any sidewalk and
driveway installation, replacement, or alteration; however, patching repair
only is excluded. A permit shall not be required for the replacement of parts
involving similar materials of an existing structure or the repair thereto when
the nature of such is clearly maintenance, including painting, and/or the
replacement of roofs with the same types of materials, gutters, downspouts,
steps, fences, retaining walls, and other items that do not materially add to
or alter the structure and/or premises. The addition or substitution of siding
materials, including aluminum and others, on a structure and/or premises is not
considered maintenance under this section and is deemed to be an alteration,
thus requiring a building permit.
   (B)   Residence building permits and certificates of occupancy must be
signed by the Building Inspector.
   (C)   Public, commercial, and industrial building permits and certificates
of occupancy must be signed by the Building Inspector, the Fire Chief, and the
City Engineer.
   (D)   Building permits and certificates of occupancy are not transferable.
   (E)   The Building Inspector shall inspect all structures and/or premises
during construction to ascertain that the provisions of law are complied with
and that the construction is prosecuted safely.
      (1)   Whenever, in his or her opinion, the continuance of a building
operation is contrary to public welfare because of defective or illegal work
being done in violation of any provision of this section, he or she shall order
all further work stopped and may require suspension of the work until the
condition has been remedied.
      (2)   Any structure erected without a permit or not in conformity may be
directed to be removed.
(1993 Code, § 81.06) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.37 FEES.
   The fee for a permit for a new structure, addition, and/or alteration to an
existing structure and/or premises, as based on the estimated cost, shall be $1
per $100 or a part thereof of the estimated cost for the first $1,000; $10 and
an additional fee of $5 per $1,000 or a part thereof from $1,001 to $40,000;
$205 and an additional fee of $4 per $1,000 or a part thereof from $40,001 to
$70,000; $325 and an additional fee of $3 per $1,000 or a part thereof from
$70,001 to $100,000; $415 and an additional fee of $2 per $1,000 or a part
thereof from $100,001 to $150,000; and $515 and an additional fee of $1 per
$1,000 or a part thereof over $150,000.
(1993 Code, § 81.07)
§ 152.38 DANGEROUS OR UNSAFE STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Any structure and/or premises, whether vacant or occupied, within the
city shall be maintained in a clean, safe, secure, and sanitary condition so as
not to cause a blighting problem or adverse effect on the public health or
safety. Any exterior property area shall be maintained in a clean, safe,
secure, and sanitary condition, free from any accumulation of rubbish or
garbage.
   (B)   Any structure and/or premises, whether vacant or occupied, within the
city which is found to be dangerous or injurious to the health and safety of
the occupants, if any, of the structure, the occupants of any neighboring
structure, or other residents of the city or which lacks adequate maintenance,
is in disrepair, is unsanitary or vermin- or rat-infested, or contains filth
and contamination shall be deemed unfit for human habitation, occupancy, or
use.
   (C)   All foundations, walls, roofs, and other exterior surfaces of a
structure shall be maintained in a structurally sound, sanitary, and
workmanlike condition so as not to pose a threat to the health and safety of
the occupants, if any; to protect the occupants, if any, from the environment;
and to exclude rats and other rodents.
   (D)   All exterior walls of a structure shall be free of holes, breaks,
loose or rotting boards or timbers, and other conditions which might admit rain
or dampness to the interior portions of the walls or spaces of the structure.
All exterior surface materials, including wood, composition, or metal siding,
shall be weatherproofed and properly surface coated, when required, to prevent
deterioration.
   (E)   All roofs of a structure shall be sound, tight, and free from any
defect which might admit rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent
rainwater from causing dampness in the interior portions of the walls or spaces
of the structure.
   (F)   All cellars, basements, and crawl spaces of a structure shall be
maintained so as to be reasonably free from dampness to prevent conditions
conducive to the decay or deterioration of the structure.
   (G)   All supports of a structure shall be kept sound, free of
deterioration, and maintained so that they are capable of safely bearing the
dead and live loads imposed upon them.
   (H)   All cornices, entablatures, belt courses, corbels, trim, wall facings,
and similar features of a structure shall be maintained in good repair with
proper anchorage and in a safe condition.
(1993 Code, § 81.09) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.39 COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   If the Building Inspector finds that the conditions causing the
structure and/or premises to be in violation of §
152.38 are an imminent and immediate threat to the safety of those persons
occupying the structure and/or premises or to persons or property who are or
will be in close proximity to the subject structure and/or premises, he or she
shall cause to be posted on the main entrance a sign with the following words:
“This structure and/or premises is unfit for human habitation, occupancy, or
use. The use or occupation of this structure and/or premises is prohibited and
unlawful.” He or she shall also order the occupants to vacate the structure
and/or premises. The conditions which the Building Inspector believes are an
imminent and immediate threat to the safety of the occupants and other persons
shall be those violations or defects which are capable of producing or
resulting in serious injury, substantial physical pain, or impairment of
physical condition.
   (B)   When, in the opinion of the Building Inspector, there is a danger of
collapse or failure of a structure and/or premises or any part thereof which
could endanger life or cause serious injury or if there is a fire hazard caused
by the vacancy, abandonment, or unsecureness of the structure and/or premises,
the Building Inspector shall cause the necessary work to be done to render the
structure and/or premises temporarily safe. When necessary for the public
safety, the Building Inspector may temporarily close sidewalks, streets,
buildings, structures, and places adjacent to the unsafe location or the unsafe
structure itself and may prohibit the same from being used, entered, or
occupied. All costs incurred in the performance of emergency work shall
constitute a lien against the property on which the structure and/or premises
is located.
(1993 Code, § 81.10)
§ 152.40 LIABILITY.
   No officer, agent, or employee of the city shall render himself or herself
personally liable for any act required or permitted in the discharge of his or
her duties hereunder; and any suit upon such a claim shall be defended by the
City Attorney until a final determination.
(1993 Code, § 81.11)
§ 152.41 STREET NUMBERS.
   (A)   Streets running east and west shall be numbered from Electric Avenue.
Streets running north and south shall be numbered from the south corporation
line. The even numbers shall be on the east side of the streets running north
and south and on the north side of the streets running east and west.
   (B)   Each 30 feet, as nearly as possible, shall constitute a number.
Numbers shall run from one to 100 in the first block from Electric Avenue and
the south corporation line; 101 to 200 in the second block; 201 to 300 in the
third block; and continue in like manner to the east, west, and north
corporation lines.
   (C)   The plat of the city prepared by the City Engineer showing in detail
the house numbers for each lot is adopted for that purpose. It shall be the
duty of the City Clerk to notify the owners of houses now erected of the proper
numbers for their houses. Upon issuing building permits for houses to be
erected in the future, the City Clerk shall designate in the permits the proper
numbers for the houses to be erected.
(1993 Code, § 81.12)
§ 152.42 ELECTRICAL PERMITS.
   (A)   Electrical permits shall be obtained prior to the installation,
addition, alteration, repair, relocation, or removal of electrical wiring.
   (B)   The cost of the permit for electrical installations, additions,
alterations, repair, relocation, or removal shall be $20 for one- or two-family
residential permits, and $40 for commercial or multi-family residential or
industrial permits.
   (C)   All electrical permits shall be obtained from the Building Inspector.
(1993 Code, § 81.13) (Ord. 91-06, passed 4-3-1991) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.43 STANDARDS MAINTAINED BY ELECTRICIANS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ELECTRICAL. The installation of wires and conduits for the purpose of
transmitting electricity, and the installation of fixtures and equipment in
connection therewith.
      ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR. Any individual, partnership, or corporation that
engages in the business of or employs others for the construction, alteration,
or repair of any electrical wiring used for the purpose of furnishing heat,
light, or power.
      ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR. Any person certified by the Commissioner of
Housing, Buildings, and Construction pursuant to KRS 227.489 who, for
compensation, inspects the construction and installation of electrical
conductors, fittings, devices, and fixtures for light, heat, or power service
equipment to ascertain the compliance with the National Electrical Code
incorporated in the Uniform State Building Code promulgated pursuant to KRS
198B.050 or the State Standards of Safety.
      ELECTRICIAN. Any person who is employed by an electrical contractor and
is engaged in the construction, alteration, or repair of any electrical wiring
used for the purpose of furnishing heat, light, or power.
   (B)   The formerly established Northern Kentucky Electric Authority, the
Examining and Appeal Board consisting of seven members as authorized in KRS
227.450 through 227.500, shall:
      (1)   Administer the electrical contractor’s examinations which have been
selected and approved by the Department of Housing, Buildings, and Construction
and administer electrician examinations;
      (2)   Have the power to issue, renew, suspend, and revoke electrical
contractor and electrician licenses;
      (3)   Have the power to require electrical contractors and electricians
to pay reasonable fees for examinations, initial licenses, and renewals;
      (4)   Accept an electrical contractor examination certificate issued by
the Department of Housing, Buildings, and Construction as evidence that an
applicant has met the examination requirements;
      (5)   Have the power to require all electrical contractors and
electricians to conform to reasonable standards prior to engaging in their
occupation;
      (6)   Compile and submit to the Department of Housing, Buildings, and
Construction all disciplinary actions taken against licensed electrical
contractors on a quarterly basis; and
      (7)   Have all other powers authorized for a “local examining board” by
KRS 227.450 et seq.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of
installing, altering, or repairing, within the city, any electrical wiring,
devices, or equipment unless the individual is the holder of the electrical
contractor’s license or employed by a licensed electrical contractor and a
holder of an electrician’s license. Application for the license must be made in
writing to the Board, stating the name, experience, and qualifications of the
applicant. Upon the applicant’s complying with the requirements of this section
and passing an examination approved by the Northern Kentucky Electric
Authority, a license shall be granted to the individual applying for the same.
   (D)   There is hereby established an agreement of reciprocity between the
city and any other city and county in which there exists legislation basically
containing the provisions of this section and the Mayor is hereby authorized to
execute an interlocal agreement(s) with any such city or county.
   (E)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating the provisions of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction in any court of
competent jurisdiction, shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $500 or
imprisoned for not more than 120 days, or both, so fined and imprisoned in the
discretion of the court for each offense, and each day that the person, firm,
or corporation violates this section, or any provision thereof, may be deemed a
separate offense.
(1993 Code, § 81.14) (Ord. 91-05, passed 4-3-1991) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   The violation of any section contained in this chapter is a civil offense
and shall be enforced pursuant to
Chapter 32 of this code.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 1-18-2012; Am. Ord. 16-10, passed 10-19-2016)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
153.01   Adoption by reference
§ 153.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The city hereby adopts by reference the subdivision regulations as
promulgated by the County and Municipal Planning and Zoning Commission,
including all amendments, additions, and/or deletions thereto, which
subdivision regulations are available for inspection at the City Building at
122 Electric Avenue, Southgate, Kentucky, during normal business hours.
(1993 Code, § 80.04)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING CODE
Section
   
154.01   Adoption by reference
Cross-reference:
   Satellite-receiving antennas, see
Ch. 113
§ 154.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The zoning ordinance and regulations, including text and map, as approved
and recommended by the County and Municipal Planning and Zoning Commission by
its resolution of 12-20-1984, which zoning regulations, including text and map,
are available for inspection at the City Building at 122 Electric Avenue,
Southgate, Kentucky, during normal business hours, shall be, and the same
hereby are, adopted as and for the official zoning ordinance and regulations,
including text and map, for the city.
(1993 Code, § 80.03) (Ord. 96-09, passed 12-18-1996; Ord. 04-2000, passed 4-19-
2000; Ord. 2000-08, passed 8-2-2000; Ord. 08-08, passed 6-4-2008)
CHAPTER 155: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
155.01   Adoption by reference
§ 155.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The city hereby adopts that portion of the updated area-wide Comprehensive
Plan, as updated by the County and Municipal Planning and Zoning Commission in
the calendar year 1988, as it applies to the city, as the Comprehensive Plan of
the city.
(1993 Code, § 80.02) (Ord. 06-08, passed 12-20-2006)
CHAPTER 156: VACANT RESIDENTIAL REAL PROPERTY REGISTRATION
Section
   
156.01   Purpose
   
156.02   Definitions
   
156.03   Registration
   
156.04   Maintenance
 
   
156.99   Penalty
§ 156.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to establish a vacant
residential property registration and maintenance program as a mechanism to
protect neighborhoods and minimize hazards to persons and property because of
the vacancy.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 3-21-2012)
§ 156.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CREDITOR. A federal or state chartered bank, savings bank, savings and loan
association, or credit union, and any entity acting on behalf of the creditor
named in the debt obligation including, but not limited to, servicers.
   EVIDENCE OF VACANCY. Any condition that on its own, or combined with other
conditions present, would lead a reasonable person to believe that the property
is vacant. Such conditions include but are not limited to overgrown or dead
vegetation, accumulation of flyers, mail, or trash, disconnected utilities, the
absence of window coverings or furniture, and statements by neighbors, delivery
persons, or government employees.
   RESIDENTIAL REAL PROPERTY. Real property within the city with one to four
dwelling units.
   VACANT. Having no legal resident or tenant.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 3-21-2012)
§ 156.03 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Prior to filing a complaint of foreclosure or executing a deed in lieu
of foreclosure on a residential real property located within the city, a
creditor shall inspect the residential real property to determine whether it is
vacant. If the property is vacant, the creditor shall, on the same day the
complaint of foreclosure is filed or the deed in lieu of foreclosure is
executed, register the property as a vacant residential property with the City
Clerk for the purpose of minimizing hazards to persons and property because of
the vacancy. Registration shall be made upon a form provided by the city and
must be accompanied by the fee set forth in division (D).
   (B)   After filing the complaint of foreclosure or executing a deed in lieu
of foreclosure, a creditor must periodically inspect the property for evidence
of vacancy. If a residential real property becomes vacant at any time after a
creditor files a complaint of foreclosure or executes a deed in lieu of
foreclosure, the creditor shall, within ten business days after obtaining
knowledge of the vacancy, register the property as a vacant residential
property with the City Clerk and pay the fee set forth in division (D).
   (C)   Registration of a residential real property as vacant shall include
the address of the property and the name and contact information of a person
located within the Commonwealth of Kentucky who is authorized to accept service
of process on behalf of the creditor.
   (D)   The annual fee for registering vacant residential property shall be
$60 made payable to “Treasurer, City of Southgate” and submitted to the City
Clerk along with the required registration form. Should the property remain
vacant for longer than one year, the creditor must renew the vacant property’s
registration by submitting a new registration form and annual fee to the City
Clerk.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 3-21-2012) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.04 MAINTENANCE.
   For so long as the property remains vacant, the creditor must:
   (A)   Keep the property free of garbage, litter, junk, debris, building
materials and discarded personal items.
   (B)   Keep the property free of graffiti, tagging or similar markings by
removing it or painting over it with an exterior paint that matches the color
of the exterior of the building.
   (C)   Maintain the yard by removing weeds and dead vegetation, trimming
overgrown plantings, and mowing the grass as seasonally appropriate.
   (D)   Drain pools and ensure that they remain covered and free from
accumulated water.
   (E)   Secure all buildings, including outbuildings, on the property in order
to protect them from intrusion by unauthorized persons, animals, birds and
vermin.
   (F)   Perform any maintenance or repairs necessary to ensure that the
property does not violate the city’s Property Maintenance Code, Building Code,
or any other city ordinance, and that it does not otherwise constitute a
nuisance.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 3-21-2012) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   The violation of any section contained in this chapter is a civil offense
and shall be enforced pursuant to
Chapter 32 of this code.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 3-21-2012; Am. Ord. 16-10, passed 10-19-2016)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
II.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
III.   STREET VACATIONS
      
IV.   FRANCHISES
      
V.   ANNEXATIONS
      
VI.   DETACHMENTS
TABLE I: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
-    - -    Interlocal agreement for city to become member of Kentucky Municipal Risk
            Management Association; codified in 1993 Code, §§ 24.01 through 24.05
            Ratifies and affirms contract between the County Fiscal Court and Storer
-    - -    Communications of Northern Kentucky, Inc., for a cable television system;
            codified in 1993 Code, § 53.01
            Authorizes the Mayor to enter into an interlocal cooperation agreement with
-    - -    other cities and the county to create the joint 911 emergency telephone
            service and to adopt regulations concerning the provisions of this service;
            codified in 1993 Code, § 55.02
-    - -    Interlocal agreement with the county and various cities within the county to
            establish an enterprise zone; codified in 1993 Code, § 80.07
91-  1-16-  Agreement to participate in the Kentucky League of Cities Investment Pool Plus
01   1991   cash management and investment program; codified in 1993 Code, §§ 25.03 and
            25.06
93-  8-18-  Agreement to join Sanitation District No. 1 of Campbell and Kenton Counties
04   1993
93-  12-2-  Interlocal cooperation agreement to lease property from the Kentucky Municipal
11   1993   Finance Corporation
94-  1-19-  County Cable Board Agreement
01   1994
94-  8-15-  Agreement to amend the boundary lines with the City of Newport, Kentucky
07   1994
98-  11-18- Agreement to amend the boundary lines with the Cities of Newport and Wilder,
11   1998   Kentucky
05-  6-7-   Agreement to change membership on County and Municipal Planning and Zoning
2000 2000   Commission
02-  8-21-  Amends agreement to establish County and Municipal Planning and Zoning
12   2002   Commission
02-  11-6-  Lease agreement with the Kentucky League of Cities Funding Trust
16   2002
05-  9-12-  Agreement to join the County and Municipal Board of Adjustment
12   2005
07-  3-21-  Lease agreement with the Kentucky League of Cities Funding Trust
02   2007
07-  9-19-  Contractual agreement to convey, via quit claim deed, a right-of-way property
10   2007   to Janet Schuster, who agrees to convey a right-of-way and maintenance
            easement to the city
09-  11-18- Approves agreement for transfer and assignment of ownership of Sanitation
06   2009   District No. 1 storm water drainage system to Sanitation District 1
20-  5-6-   Approves a development agreement with Ashley Commercial Group
04   2020
21-  8-18-  Approves a lease, provides for the payment and security of the lease, and
06   2021   creates a sinking fund
24-  5-15-  Approves a lease with the Kentucky Bond Corporation, provides for the payment
06   2024   and security of the lease, and affirms maintenance of existing sinking fund
           
 
TABLE II: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        - -         Rezones various properties; codified in 1993 Code, § 80.06
97-03    4-2-1997    Amends Official Zoning Map for a parcel of land at the
                     southwest quadrant of U.S. Route 27 and Blossom Lane
97-04    4-16-1997   Amends Official Zoning Map for a parcel of land at the
                     southwest quadrant of Interstate 471 and U.S. Route 27
06-01    6-26-2006   Rezones an approximate 13-acre site from R-1E/PUD to R-3
07-01    2-21-2007   Rezones an area located at 2704 Alexandria Pike from GC to
                     R-1E
11-08    10-19-2011  Rezones a 5,220 square foot lot located at 14 Orchard
                     Street from GC to R- 1H
                     Amends Official Zoning Map for a parcel of land located at
16-12    11-16-2016  350 Blossom Lane and 931 Alexandria Pike from RCD to R-1E/
                     RCD
18-11    7-31-2018   Rezones 2401 Alexandria Pike from R-1GH to GC
20-07    8-19-2020   Rezones a certain 78 acres from PO to a combination of GC,
                     R-3, R-1E and RCD
24-03    2-7-2024    Rezones 85.8 acres of property located between Moock Road
                     and I-471 from R-1E/PUD and R-3 to R-3 with a R-3/PUD
                    
 
TABLE III: STREET VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
275      11-30-1937  Certain land within the city
92-5     5-18-1949   Land between Orchard and Willow Streets
98-5     1-17-1950   Portion of Shaler Lane lying between Temple Place and
                     Gleason Avenue
97-5     11-15-1950  Portions of Shaler Lane lying between Temple Place and
                     Gleason Avenue
103-5    7-18-1951   Certain street within the city
104-5    10-13-1951  Certain street within the city
200-5    1-16-1953   Alley between Electric and Maple Avenues
115-5    4-1-1953    Passageway in Shaler’s Subdivision
125-5    2-17-1954   Shaler Lane between Orchard and Willow Streets
126-5    3-17-1954   Shaler Lane between Orchard and Willow Streets
160-5    10-15-1958  Reduction of Electric Avenue in width
198-5    12-5-1962   Certain alley within the city
69-4     8-7-1974    Portion of dedicated right-of-way of Electric Avenue
75-4     12-18-1974  Portion of Electric Avenue
90-06    6-20-1990   Portions of Cherry and Shaler Streets
97-12    10-1-1997   Portion of the dedicated right-of-way of Orchard Street
05-04    4-25-2005   Portion of the dedicated right-of-way of Shaler Lane
                    
 
TABLE IV: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
98-01    4-15-1998   Provides for public bidding of gas franchise
98-02    4-15-1998   Provides for public bidding of electric franchise
98-03    4-15-1998   Renews cable television franchise
98-04    7-1-1998    Electric franchise granted to Union Light, Heat, and Power
                     Company
98-05    7-1-1998    Gas franchise granted to Union Light, Heat, and Power
                     Company
03-01    4-16-2003   Provides for public bidding of telephone/general
                     communications franchise
03-05    8-6-2003    Telephone/general communications franchise granted to
                     Cincinnati Bell Telephone Company
14-02    6-4-2014    Electric/gas transmission and distribution franchise
                     granted to Duke Energy
14-06    8-20-2014   Electric/gas transmission, distribution and sale franchise
                     granted to Duke Energy
19-03    3-6-2019    Electric/gas transmission and distribution franchise
                     granted to Duke Energy
24-04    5-1-2024    Electric/gas transmission and distribution franchise
                     granted to Duke Energy
                    
 
TABLE V: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
3        5-16-1907   Territory with boundaries starting at northwest corner of
                     Temple Lane and Alexandria Pike
12       7-18-1907   Territory with boundaries starting at northwest corner of
                     Temple Lane and Alexandria Pike
12       11-3-1921   Land lying between the city and Fort Thomas
12       12-7-1921   Land lying along west side of Alexandria Pike
229      12-8-1931   Land east and south of present city limits
248      7-18-1933   Land described in Ord. 247
267      4-15-1937   Certain land lying south of and adjacent to the city
270      6-16-1937   Land lying south of and adjacent to the city
76-5     6-4-1947    Certain portion of Alexandria Pike and territory south of
                     the city
77-5     7-16-1947   Certain unincorporated territory
83-5     12-1-1948   Certain land around Lake Street
88-5     12-19-1949  Certain unincorporated territory
108-5    4-2-1952    Land with boundaries starting at northern line of
                     Covington Water Works Road
109-5    5-21-1952   Land near City of Wilder, Kentucky
187-5    2-7-1962    Portion of Lot 4 of subdivision of Joseph Stilwell estate
189-5    3-27-1962   Certain described territory in the county
190-5    4-18-1962   Portion of Lot 4 of subdivision of Joseph Stilwell estate
195-5    6-20-1962   Certain land embracing part of John Lindsey estate
244-5    9-7-1966    Land embracing portion of Sunny Acres Subdivision
246-5    12-7-1966   Land along Bluegrass Avenue
248-5    1-18-1967   Certain unincorporated land within the city
16-06    8-3-2016    Transfer of incorporated areas between Wilder and
                     Southgate
                    
 
TABLE VI: DETACHMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
277      12-30-1937  Land to the south of the city
25-5     8-15-1940   Redefinition of boundaries along Electric Avenue
165-5    3-4-1959    Repeal of Ord. 151-5, passed 12-4-1957
188-5    3-27-1962   Certain land within the city
196-5    7-16-1962   Land near Fort Beech Road
242-5    5-18-1966   Land on western border of the city
243-5    9-28-1966   Certain land within the city
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to 1993 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section          Code Section
Ky. Const. 228       32.51
61.300               91.03
61.810               33.081
61.870 - 61.884      33.085
61.872 - 61.884      33.025
65.003               33.003
                     32.50,
65.8801 - 65.8839    32.51,
                     32.61
65.8815(5)           32.54
65.8825(4)(a) - (h)  32.62
65.8831              32.62
78.510 - 78.852      36.01
82.082               33.003
82.600 - 82.640      70.20 ,
                     72.25
82.605 - 82.640      72.31
82.620               70.22
82.620 et seq.       72.27
                     70.23 ,
82.625               72.29,
                     72.30
82.630               70.25
82.635               70.24
83A.010(5)           10.02
83A.010(6)           10.02
83A.010(8)           10.02
83A.045(2)(b)        31.44
83A.060              33.005
83A.060(5)           72.25
83A.065              10.99
83A.075              31.02
83A.080              33.004
83A.087              50.01
83A.090              10.18
83A.130              33.032
83A.130(13)          33.032
91A.010(8)           10.02
99.700 - 99.730      32.25
Ch. 100              151.01
132.012              35.22
134.420              35.21
Ch. 136              35.01
136.120              110.03
Ch. 151              151.05
186.020              70.25 ,
                     72.30
189.990(1)           70.99
198B.050             152.43
198B.060(8)          152.16
218A.010 - 218A.1444 90.03
222.202              90.03
224.01-010           50.01
227.450 et seq.      152.43
227.450 - 227.500    152.43
227.489              152.43
Ch. 241              111.01
241.010              111.01
Ch. 242              111.01
Ch. 243              110.03,
                     111.01
Ch. 244              111.01
258.215              91.08
Ch. 350              151.05
383.505 - 383.705    96.01
Ch. 386              10.02
Ch. 386A             10.02
446.010(1)           10.02
446.010(2)           10.02
446.010(6)           10.02
446.010(8)           10.02
446.010(9)           10.02
446.010(10)          10.02
446.010(11)          10.02
446.010(13)          10.02
446.010(14)          10.02
446.010(15)          10.02
446.010(16)          10.02
446.010(18)          10.02
446.010(19)          10.02
446.010(24)          10.02
446.010(26)          10.02
446.010(27)          10.02
446.010(28)          10.02
446.010(30)          10.02
446.010(31)          10.02
446.010(33)          10.02
446.010(36)          10.02
446.010(37)          10.02
446.010(39)          10.02
446.010(43)          10.02
446.010(46)          10.02
446.010(47)          10.02
446.010(49)          10.02
446.010(55)          10.02
446.020(1)           10.03
446.020(2)           10.03
446.030              10.04
446.050              10.05
446.060              10.06
446.080(1)           10.03
446.080(3)           10.03
446.080(4)           10.03
446.090              10.07
446.100              10.08
446.110              10.09
446.140              10.01
507.020              90.03
507.030              90.03
507.040              90.03
507.050              90.03
508.010 - 508.160    90.03
510.010 - 510.155    90.03
511.010 - 511.090    90.03
512.010 - 512.060    90.03
513.010 - 513.040    90.03
514.010 - 514.090    90.03
514.110              90.03
515.010 - 515.030    90.03
522.020              33.034
525.00               33.033
525.055              90.03
525.060              90.03
525.070 - 525.080    90.03
525.100              90.03
525.125              91.03
525.130              91.03
525.135              91.03
525.137              91.03
527.020(3)           32.10
529.010 - 529.110    90.03
531.010 - 531.110    90.03
531.300 - 531.370    90.03
534.040(2)(c)        10.99
                     
 
REFERENCES TO 1993 CODE
1993 Code Section 2010 Code Section
1993 Code Section 2010 Code Section
20.01             30.01
20.02             30.02
20.03             31.15
20.04             31.16
20.05             31.17
20.06             31.18
20.07             31.19
20.08             31.20
21.01             31.01
21.02             31.35
21.04             31.36
21.05             31.37
21.06             31.38
21.07             31.39
21.08             31.40
21.09             31.41
21.10             31.42
21.11             31.43
21.12             31.44
21.13             36.02
21.14             36.03
21.15             31.02
22.01             32.40
22.02             32.41
22.03             32.42
22.04             32.43
22.05             32.44
22.06             32.45
22.07             32.46
22.08             32.47
22.99             32.99
23.05             32.02
23.06             32.03
23.07             32.04
23.08             32.05
23.09             32.06
23.10             32.07
23.11             32.08
23.12             32.09
23.13             32.10
24.01             TSO, Table I
24.02             TSO, Table I
24.03             TSO, Table I
24.04             TSO, Table I
24.05             TSO, Table I
25.01             36.01
25.02             36.01
25.03             TSO, Table I
25.04             34.04
25.05             34.03
25.06             TSO, Table I
31.01             93.01
31.02             93.02
31.03             93.03
31.04             93.04
31.05             93.05
31.06             93.06
31.07             93.07
31.08             93.08
31.09             93.09
31.10             93.10
31.11             93.11
31.12             93.12
31.19             93.13
31.20             93.14
31.21             93.15
31.22             93.16
31.23             93.17
31.24             93.18
31.25             93.19
31.99             93.99
40.01             70.01
40.02             70.02
40.05             70.03
40.06             71.01
40.07             Ch. 73, Sch. I
40.08             71.02
40.09             70.04
40.10             70.05
40.11             71.03
40.12             71.04
40.99             70.99
41.01             92.01
41.02             92.02
41.03             92.03
41.04             92.04
41.05             92.05
41.06             92.06
41.07             92.07
42.99             70.99
43.01             70.20
43.02             70.21
43.04             70.22
51.01             94.20
51.02             94.21
51.03             94.22
51.04             94.23
52.01             94.01
52.02             94.02
52.03             94.03
52.04             94.04
52.05             94.05
52.06             94.06
52.07             94.07
53.01             TSO, Table I
53.02             113.01
53.03             113.02
53.04             113.03
53.05             113.04
53.99             113.99
54.01             35.15
54.02             35.16
54.03             35.17
54.04             35.18
54.05             35.19
54.06             35.20
54.07             35.21
55.01             34.01
55.02             TSO, Table I
56.01             95.01,
                  95.99
56.02             95.02,
                  95.99
60.01             111.01
60.02             111.02
60.03             111.03
60.04             111.04
60.05             111.05
60.06             111.06
60.07             111.07
60.08             111.08
60.09             111.09
60.10             111.10
60.11             111.11
60.12             111.12
60.13             111.13
60.14             111.14
60.15             111.15
60.16             111.16
60.99             111.99
61.01             114.01
61.02             114.02
61.03             114.03
61.99             114.99
62.01             115.01
62.02             115.02
62.03             115.03
62.04             115.04
62.05             115.05
62.06             115.06
62.07             115.07
62.08             115.08
62.09             115.09
62.99             115.99
63.01             112.01
63.02             112.02
63.03             112.03
63.04             112.04
63.05             112.05
70.01             130.01
70.02             130.02
70.03             130.03
70.04             130.04
70.05             130.05
71.01             132.01
71.02             132.02
71.03             132.03
71.99             132.99
72.01             133.01
72.02             133.02
72.03             133.03
72.99             133.99
73.01             131.01
73.02             131.02
73.03             131.03
73.99             131.99
74.01             132.15
74.02             132.16
74.99             132.99
75.01             130.20
75.02             130.21
75.03             130.22
75.99             130.99
80.01             150.01
80.02             155.01
80.03             154.01
80.04             153.01
80.06             TSO, Table II
80.07             TSO, Table I
81.01             152.01
81.02             152.02
81.05             152.18
81.06             152.36
81.07             152.37
81.09             152.38
81.10             152.39
81.11             152.40
81.12             152.41
81.13             152.42
81.14             152.43
81.15             152.19
81.16             152.20
82.11             32.25 -
                  32.28
83.01             51.01
83.02             51.02
83.03             51.03
83.04             51.04
83.05             51.05
83.06             51.06
83.07             51.07
83.08             51.08
83.09             51.09
84.01             96.01
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      - -         TSO, Table I
–      - -         TSO, Table I
–      - -         TSO, Table I
–      - -         TSO, Table I
–      - -         TSO, Table II
09-03    - -         152.15
3        5-16-1907   TSO, Table V
12       7-18-1907   TSO, Table V
12       11-3-1921   TSO, Table V
12       12-7-1921   TSO, Table V
229      12-8-1931   TSO, Table V
248      7-18-1933   TSO, Table V
267      4-15-1937   TSO, Table V
270      6-16-1937   TSO, Table V
275      11-30-1937  TSO, Table III
277      12-30-1937  TSO, Table VI
25-5     8-15-1940   TSO, Table VI
76-5     6-4-1947    TSO, Table V
77-5     7-16-1947   TSO, Table V
83-5     12-1-1948   TSO, Table V
92-5     5-18-1949   TSO, Table III
88-5     12-19-1949  TSO, Table V
98-5     1-17-1950   TSO, Table III
97-5     11-15-1950  TSO, Table III
103-5    7-18-1951   TSO, Table III
104-5    10-13-1951  TSO, Table III
108-5    4-2-1952    TSO, Table V
109-5    5-21-1952   TSO, Table V
200-5    1-16-1953   TSO, Table III
115-5    4-1-1953    TSO, Table III
125-5    2-17-1954   TSO, Table III
126-5    3-17-1954   TSO, Table III
160-5    10-15-1958  TSO, Table III
165-5    3-4-1959    TSO, Table VI
187-5    2-7-1962    TSO, Table V
188-5    3-27-1962   TSO, Table VI
189-5    3-27-1962   TSO, Table V
190-5    4-18-1962   TSO, Table V
195-5    6-20-1962   TSO, Table V
196-5    7-16-1962   TSO, Table VI
198-5    12-5-1962   TSO, Table III
242-5    5-18-1966   TSO, Table VI
244-5    9-7-1966    TSO, Table V
243-5    9-28-1966   TSO, Table VI
246-5    12-7-1966   TSO, Table V
248-5    1-18-1967   TSO, Table V
69-4     8-7-1974    TSO, Table III
75-4     12-18-1974  TSO, Table III
90-01    4-18-1990   70.99,
                     71.04
90-02    4-18-1990   93.20
90-04    5-2-1990    111.09
90-06    6-20-1990   TSO, Table III
90-07    7-18-1990   36.03
90-08    7-18-1990   111.09
91-01    1-16-1991   TSO, Table I
91-02    2-6-1991    31.44
91-04    3-20-1991   32.10
91-05    4-3-1991    152.43
91-06    4-3-1991    152.42
91-07    4-3-1991    152.19
91-08    6-19-1991   111.03
91-10    10-2-1991   32.25 -
                     32.28
91-11    10-2-1991   31.02
91-12    10-2-1991   150.01
91-15    12-18-1991  152.20
92-01    2-5-1992    36.03
92-02    2-19-1992   32.09
92-04    4-1-1992    34.03
92-05    4-1-1992    34.04
92-06    5-6-1992    36.02
92-07    5-20-1992   96.01
92-15    12-16-1992  93.19
92-18    1-6-1993    93.99
93-03    8-4-1993    112.02
93-04    8-18-1993   TSO, Table I
93-09    9-15-1993   36.01
93-11    12-2-1993   TSO, Table I
94-01    1-19-1994   TSO, Table I
94-02    1-19-1994   94.07
94-03    6-1-1994    95.01,
                     95.99
94-04    6-15-1994   95.02,
                     95.99
94-07    8-15-1994   TSO, Table I
94-14    8-17-1994   94.07
                     33.001 -
                     33.005,
                     33.020 -
                     33.027,
94-17    11-2-1994   33.040 -
                     33.045,
                     33.060,
                     33.075 -
                     33.085,
                     33.999
95-01    5-3-1995    113.03
95-06    12-20-1995  36.02
96-01    4-3-1996    36.02
96-02    4-3-1996    36.02
96-03    6-22-1996   152.35
96-05    9-18-1996   33.041
96-07    10-2-1996   35.01
96-09    12-18-1996  154.01
97-01    3-19-1997   33.041
97-02    4-2-1997    93.08
97-03    4-2-1997    TSO, Table II
97-04    4-16-1997   TSO, Table II
97-06    5-21-1997   33.041
97-07    7-2-1997    36.02
97-09    8-6-1997    130.02 -
                     130.05
97-10    10-1-1997   130.06
97-11    10-1-1997   130.02
97-12    10-1-1997   TSO, Table III
98-01    4-15-1998   TSO, Table IV
98-02    4-15-1998   TSO, Table IV
98-03    4-15-1998   TSO, Table IV
98-04    7-1-1998    TSO, Table IV
98-05    7-1-1998    TSO, Table IV
98-11    11-18-1998  TSO, Table I
01-2000  3-1-2000    150.02
02-2000  3-1-2000    32.01
03-2000  3-1-2000    36.03
04-2000  4-19-2000   154.01
05-2000  6-7-2000    TSO, Table I
2000-07  7-19-2000   36.02
2000-08  8-2-2000    154.01
00-11    10-18-2000  Ch. 73, Sch. I
00-13    1-3-2001    34.01
00-14    1-3-2001    113.03
01-01    4-4-2001    Ch. 73, Sch. II,
                     70.99
01-05    8-21-2001   112.02
01-09    12-5-2001   70.99
02-08    3-20-2002   34.02
02-12    8-21-2002   TSO, Table I
02-15    10-16-2002  36.01
02-16    11-6-2002   TSO, Table I
03-01    4-16-2003   TSO, Table IV
03-05    8-6-2003    TSO, Table IV
1-04     3-17-2004   112.02
                     110.01 -
04-05    12-1-2004   110.13,
                     110.99
05-01    2-4-2005    111.09
05-02    2-4-2005    111.11
05-04    4-25-2005   TSO, Table III
05-05    6-7-2005    150.02
05-12    9-12-2005   TSO, Table I
05-14    11-16-2005  34.01
                     110.01,
05-15    1-4-2006    110.04,
                     110.05,
                     110.08
05-16    1-4-2006    34.01
06-01    6-26-2006   TSO, Table II
6-07     11-1-2006   35.21
06-08    12-20-2006  155.01
07-01    2-21-2007   TSO, Table II
07-02    3-21-2007   TSO, Table I
07-04    6-20-2007   110.03
07-10    9-19-2007   TSO, Table I
08-04    3-5-2008    36.03
08-05    5-21-2008   92.02,
                     92.06
08-08    6-4-2008    154.01
08-11    6-4-2008    152.17
09-02    4-15-2009   152.16
09-06    11-18-2009  TSO, Table I
10-01    5-19-2010   Adopting Ordinance
                     98.01 -
10-6     9-1-2010    98.17,
                     98.99
11-08    10-19-2011  TSO, Table II
                     90.01 -
                     90.05,
                     90.99,
12-01    1-18-2012   91.99,
                     92.99,
                     94.99,
                     152.99
12-02    1-18-2012   35.22
                     97.01 -
12-03    1-18-2012   97.18,
                     97.99
                     156.01 -
12-04    3-21-2012   156.04,
                     156.99
12-08    8-1-2012    36.03
13-06    12-18-2013  Ch. 73, Sch. III
13-07    11-20-2013  111.10 -
                     111.12
14-01    2-19-2014   151.01,
                     151.02
14-02    6-4-2014    TSO, Table IV
                     70.20 -
14-05    8-20-2014   70.25,
                     70.99
14-06    8-20-2014   TSO, Table IV
15-01    2-4-2015    36.03
                     52.01 -
15-02    4-1-2015    52.04,
                     52.99
15-05    8-19-2015   93.21
15-07    9-2-2015    Adopting Ordinance
15-11    10-7-2015   93.19
                     97.01,
                     97.02,
                     97.04 -
15-12    12-2-2015   97.07,
                     97.09 -
                     97.14,
                     97.16,
                     97.18
16-03    6-15-2016   152.16
16-06    8-3-2016    TSO, Table V
                     32.50 -
                     32.64,
                     32.99,
                     52.99,
                     90.04,
                     90.99,
16-10    10-19-2016  91.99,
                     92.99,
                     93.99,
                     94.99,
                     152.17,
                     152.99,
                     156.99
16-12    11-16-2016  TSO, Table II
16-13    12-7-2016   91.99
17-01    2-1-2017    Adopting Ordinance
17-02    2-1-2017    91.99
17-05    7-5-2017    33.030 -
                     33.034
18-01    3-7-2018    Adopting Ordinance
18-03    3-7-2018    32.01
18-10    7-31-2018   32.11
18-11    7-31-2018   TSO, Table II
19-01    3-6-2019    Adopting Ordinance
                     98.01,
                     98.02,
19-02    3-6-2019    98.05,
                     98.07,
                     98.99
19-03    3-6-2019    TSO, Table IV
                     93.16,
19-05    4-17-2019   93.17,
                     93.25
                     116.01 -
19-06    5-5-2019    116.11,
                     116.99
                     97.01 -
19-09    8-7-2019    97.16,
                     97.99
                     93.16,
19-13    10-2-2019   93.17,
                     93.99
20-01    2-5-2020    92.02
20-03    4-1-2020    Adopting Ordinance
20-04    5-6-2020    TSO, Table I
20-07    8-19-2020   TSO, Table II
20-08    8-19-2020   91.13,
                     91.99
21-01    1-20-2021   Adopting Ordinance
21-03    5-5-2021    36.03
21-06    8-18-2021   TSO, Table I
21-07    9-1-2021    36.02
                     72.01 -
                     72.14,
21-11    10-20-2021  72.25 -
                     72.31,
                     72.99
                     50.01 -
                     50.06,
                     50.15 -
                     50.24,
21-12    10-20-2021  50.35 -
                     50.37,
                     50.50 -
                     50.53,
                     50.99,
                     Ch. 50 App. A
22-01    1-19-2022   Adopting Ordinance
                     91.25 -
22-04    8-3-2022    91.27,
                     91.99
                     91.01 -
23-01    2-15-2023   91.14,
                     91.99
23-02    3-1-2023    Adopting Ordinance
23-05    9-6-2023    50.36,
                     50.37
23-06    9-6-2023    35.21
24-01    1-17-2024   Adopting Ordinance
24-02    1-17-2024   110.09,
                     111.99
24-03    2-7-2024    TSO, Table II
24-04    5-1-2024    TSO, Table IV
24-05    4-17-2024   97.05,
                     97.99
24-06    5-15-2024   TSO, Table I
                    
 
 
