SAINT MATTHEWS, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2025 S-32, current through
Local Legislation passed 9-24-24
and State Legislation current through 2025
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
RICHARD TONINI   MAYOR
                 
CITY COUNCIL
BERNARD BOWLING  COUNCILMEMBER
FRANK FLYNN      COUNCILMEMBER
NATHAN HERNANDEZ COUNCILMEMBER
TIM HOLLAND      COUNCILMEMBER
SARAH LANDES     COUNCILMEMBER
MARY JO NAY      COUNCILMEMBER
AMY OLSON        COUNCILMEMBER
JACKIE VANETTI   COUNCILMEMBER
                 
CITY OFFICIALS
JOHN SINGLER     CITY ATTORNEY
JUDI KASSEBAUM   CITY CLERK/TREASURER
BARRY WILKERSON  POLICE CHIEF
JIM BIRCH        CITY ENGINEER
KENAN STRATMAN   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 89-02
   AN ORDINANCE RELATING TO THE ADOPTION OF AMENDMENTS TO THE ST. MATTHEWS CODE
OF ORDINANCES (1988 SUPPLEMENT), AND THE REPEAL OF OBSOLETE CODE SECTIONS.
   WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of St. Matthews has received and
reviewed the 1988 Supplement to the St. Matthews Code of Ordinances as prepared
by the American Legal Publishing Co., and
   WHEREAS, such supplement to the Code of Ordinances, with the exception to
Chapters 30 and 31, are found to be proper, now therefore,
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF ST. MATTHEWS:
   Section 1. That the 1988 Supplement to the St. Matthews Code of Ordinances
(Chapters supplemented being Nos. 70, 71, 72, 75, 91, 130, 133, 135, 137, and
137) attached hereto and made a part hereof be, and the same is hereby adopted
by the City, exclusive of Chapter 30 and 31 which are not adopted.
   Section 2. That Chapter 32 of the St. Matthews Code of Ordinances (Police
Court) is hereby repealed in its entirety.
   Section 3. This Ordinance shall take effect upon its passage, approval and
publication as required by law.
   FIRST READING held January 24, 1989.
   PASSED AND APPROVED February 14, 1989.
   A.K. Draut /s/
   Mayor
ATTEST:
Gretchen Kaiser /s/
City Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.     RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
         
11.     CORPORATE BOUNDARIES
         
12.     CITY SEAL
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Interpretation
   
10.02   Application to future legislation
   
10.03   Captions
   
10.04   Definitions and rules of interpretation
   
10.05   Rules of severability
   
10.06   Reference to other sections
   
10.07   Reference to offices
   
10.08   Errors and omissions
   
10.09   Computing time; first day excluded; last day included; exception
   
10.10   Prevailing time
§ 10.01 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The provisions of this and subsequent chapters in this volume shall
constitute and be designated and cited as "The St. Matthews Code of
Ordinances."
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required,
the same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (C)   Statutory footnotes, cross-references and other comments are by way of
explanation only and should not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
   (D)   All provisions of this code are limited in application to the
territorial boundaries of the municipal corporation although the same may not
be so limited specifically.
§ 10.02 APPLICATION TO FUTURE LEGISLATION.
   All of the provisions of Title I, not incompatible with future legislation,
shall apply to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code
unless otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.03 CAPTIONS.
   Title heads, chapter heads, and section heads, are employed for reference
purposes only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   In the construction of this code and of all ordinances of the city, the
following definitions and rules of construction shall be observed, unless they
are inconsistent with the intent of the council or the context clearly requires
otherwise:
   (A)   "AND" or "OR." Includes the other as if written "AND/OR."
   (B)   "CITY," "MUNICIPAL CORPORATION" or "MUNICIPALITY." The municipality of
St. Matthews irrespective of its population or legal classification.
   (C)   "CODE" or "CODE OF ORDINANCES." The city code as adopted by this
ordinance, and as hereinafter modified by amendment, revision, and by the
adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
   (D)   "COUNCIL" or "CITY COUNCIL." The council of the city of St. Matthews.
   (E)   “DOMESTIC.” When applied to corporations, partnerships, limited
partnerships, or limited liability companies, refers to all those incorporated
or formed by authority of this state.
   (F)   “FOREIGN.” When applied to corporations, partnerships, limited
partnerships, or limited liability companies, includes all those incorporated
or formed by authority of any other state.
   (G)   "MAY." Is permissive.
   (H)   "MONTH." A calendar month.
   (I)   “PARTNERSHIP.” Includes both general and limited partnerships.
   (J)   "PERSON." May extend and be applied to bodies politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships,
registered limited liability partnerships, joint stock companies, and limited
liability companies.
   (K)   "PROPERTY." Includes real and personal property.
   (L)   "OWNER." Applied to a building or land shall include any part owner,
joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant of the whole
or a part of such building, or land, either alone or with others.
   (M)   "REVISED STATUTES" or "KRS." Refers to the Revised Statutes of
Kentucky.
   (N)   "SHALL." Is mandatory.
   (O)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders.
   (P)   Words in the singular shall include the plural, and words in the
plural shall include the singular.
   (Q)   A general term following specific enumeration of terms is not to be
limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
   (R)   Each tense shall include every other tense.
Statutory reference:
   See KRS 446.010 for Definitions used in state statute laws.
§ 10.05 RULE OF SEVERABILITY.
   Each chapter, section or, whenever divisible, part section of this code of
ordinances is hereby declared to be severable, and the invalidity of any
chapter, section or divisible part section, shall not be construed to affect
the validity of any other chapter, section or part section of this code.
§ 10.06 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, re-codified, or renumbered unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city, exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.08 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and
such word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No such
alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the
nature or extent of such error.
§ 10.09 COMPUTING TIME; FIRST DAY EXCLUDED; LAST DAY INCLUDED; EXCEPTION.
   The time within which an act is required by any provision of this code to be
done shall be computed by excluding the first and including the last day;
except that when the last day falls on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday,
then the act may be done on the next succeeding day which is not a Sunday or a
legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
§ 10.10 PREVAILING TIME.
   The prevailing time within the city of the transaction of all city business
shall be as established by applicable state and federal law or that actually in
use in Jefferson County generally.
CHAPTER 11: CORPORATE BOUNDARIES
Section
   
11.01   Corporate limits
§ 11.01 CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   The corporate limits of the city, until otherwise changed by
ordinance, shall remain as established and as follows.
   BEGINNING at the point of intersection of the South property line of the
alley South of Gilman Avenue and the East property line of Chenoweth Lane;
running thence Southerly along the East property line of Chenoweth Lane in an
irregular line for a distance of 1550.4 feet to the North property line of
Westport Road; thence Easterly along the North property line of Westport Road
for a distance of 1175.8 feet to the West property line of St. Matthews Avenue;
thence Northerly along the West property line of St. Matthews Avenue in an
irregular line for a distance of 1595.3 feet to the South property line of the
alley South of Gilman Avenue; thence Westerly along the South property line of
said alley for a distance of 1179.1 feet to the point of beginning.
(Judgment no. 319-478, Jefferson Circuit Court)
   (B)   Subsequent annexations are shown in the following cross reference.
Cross reference:
   Annexations, Table of special ordinances,
Table I.
CHAPTER 12: CITY SEAL
Section
   
12.01   City seal established
§ 12.01 CITY SEAL ESTABLISHED.
   The seal of the City of St. Matthews is adopted and shall be as printed
below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d23f68a38e35945c11f0b9ee439ca5de5e685be5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2196.jpg]
 
(Ord. 7, passed 7-10-79)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.     MAYOR
         
31.     CITY OFFICIALS
         
32.     POLICE DEPARTMENT
         
33.     TAXATION AND FINANCE
         
34.     EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
         
35.     DISCRIMINATION AGAINST THE HANDICAPPED
         
36.   ETHICS CODE
         
37.   PUBLIC RECORDS POLICY
         
38.   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR
Section
   
30.01   Election; term; qualification
   
30.02   Duties and powers of mayor
§ 30.01 ELECTION; TERM; QUALIFICATION.
   The mayor shall be elected by the voters of the city at a regular election.
His or her term of office shall begin on the first day of January following his
election and shall be for 4 years and until his or her successor qualifies. If
a person is elected or appointed as mayor in response to a vacancy and serves
less than 4 calendar years, then that period of service shall not be considered
for purposes of re-election a term of office. A mayor shall be at least 25
years of age, shall be a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the
city throughout his or her term of office. Elections for mayor shall be
nonpartisan as provided in KRS 83A.170.
(Ord. 89-03, passed 2-14-89)
Statutory reference:
   Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age; candidate to be resident of city
for at least a year prior to election, see KRS 83A.040(1)
Cross-reference:
   Salary and bond, see §§
34.01 and
34.02
§ 30.02 DUTIES AND POWERS OF MAYOR.
   (A)   The executive authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised
by the mayor. The mayor shall enforce the mayor-council plan, city ordinances
and orders and all applicable statutes. He or she shall supervise all
departments of city government and the conduct of all city officers and
employees under his or her jurisdiction and shall require each department to
make written reports to him or her required by ordinance or as he or she deems
desirable. The mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities. The mayor
shall report to the council and to the public on the condition and needs of
city government as he or she finds appropriate or as required by ordinance, but
not less than annually. He or she shall make any recommendations for actions by
the council he or she finds in the public interest.
(KRS 83A.130(3))
   (B)   Subject to disapproval of the council, the mayor shall promulgate
procedures to insure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statute or ordinance. Upon promulgation or upon revision or
rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the city clerk.
(KRS 83A.130(4))
   (C)   The mayor shall preside at meetings of the council. The council may
set by ordinance the manner in which one of its number may be selected to
preside at meetings of the council in place of the mayor. The mayor may
participate in council proceedings, but shall not have a vote, except that he
or she may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130(5))
   (D)   All ordinances adopted by the council shall be submitted to the mayor
who shall within 10 days after submission either approve the ordinance by
affixing his or her signature or disapprove it by returning it to the council
together with a statement of his or her objections. No ordinance shall take
effect without the mayor's approval unless he or she fails to return it to the
legislative body within 10 days after receiving it or unless the council votes
to override the mayor's veto, upon reconsideration of the ordinance not later
than the second regular meeting following its return, by the affirmative vote
of 1 more than a majority of the membership.
(KRS 83A.130(6))
   (E)   Any delegation of the mayor's powers, duties, or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his or her official
authority to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order.
Executive orders shall be subsequently numbered by years and shall be kept in a
permanent file.
(KRS 83A.130(7))
   (F)   All bonds, notes, contracts and written obligations of the city shall
be made and executed by the mayor or his agent designated by executive order.
(KRS 83A.130(8))
   (G)   The mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint and
remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance, or contract and except
for employees of the council.
(KRS 83A.130(9))
   (H)   The mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the functions
of city government at any time he or she is unable to attend to the duties of
his office by delegating the responsibility for any functions to be performed
in accordance with division (E) of this section, provided that the mayor shall
not delegate the responsibility of presiding at meetings of the council and
that approving ordinances or promulgating administrative procedures may only be
delegated to an elected officer. With approval of the council, the mayor may
rescind any action taken in his or her absence under this division within 30
days of such action. If for any reason the disability of the mayor to attend to
his or her duties persists for 60 consecutive days, the office of mayor may be
declared vacant by a majority vote of the council and the provisions of KRS
83A.040 shall apply.
(KRS 83A.130(10)) (Ord. 89-03, passed 2-14-89)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
City Council
   
31.01   City Council
   
31.02   Meetings
   
31.03   Powers and duties
   
31.04   Elections to be nonpartisan
   
31.05   Location and time of Council meetings
Nonelective Officials
   
31.15   City Clerk
   
31.16   Citation Enforcement Officer
   
31.17   Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
CITY COUNCIL
§ 31.01 CITY COUNCIL.
   The legislative authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised by
the elected Council of the city. The Council shall not perform any executive
functions except those functions assigned to it by statute.
(KRS 83A.130(11)) (Ord. 89-04, passed 2-14-89)
Cross-reference:
   Salary and bond, see §§
34.01 and
34.02
§ 31.02 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Council shall be held at least once each month
at such times and places as are fixed by ordinance. Special meetings of the
Council may be called by the Mayor or upon written request of a majority of the
Council. In the call, the Mayor or Council shall designate the purpose, time,
and place of the special meetings with sufficient notice for the attendance of
Council members and for compliance with KRS Chapter 61. At special meetings no
business may be conducted other than that set forth in the designation of
purpose. The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the City Clerk and by
the officer presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.130(11)) (Ord. 89-04, passed 2-14-89)
   (B)   Caucus meetings.
      (1)   In addition to the regular meeting heretofore fixed by ordinance,
the city hereby establishes an informal meeting to be held at 10:00 a.m. each
Saturday, and at 5:00 p.m. on the first and third Tuesday of each month, which
meeting shall be referred to as a caucus meeting.
      (2)   Attendance at the caucus meeting shall be open to the public;
however, the attendance of the City Council members shall not be mandatory.
      (3)   The caucus meeting established in division (B)(1) of this section
shall be held at the City Hall.
      (4)   The taking of minutes at the caucus meeting shall be required.
      (5)   No final action shall be taken at a caucus meeting unless the
caucus meeting also qualifies as a special meeting of the City Council pursuant
to applicable provisions of Kentucky Revised Statutes.
(Ord. 90-01, passed 3-13-90; Am. Ord. 96-02, passed 2-27-96; Am. Ord. 24-02,
passed 5-14-24)
§ 31.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Council shall by ordinance establish all appointive offices and
the duties and responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and
regulations for the public health, safety, and welfare. The Council shall by
ordinance provide for sufficient revenue to operate city government and shall
appropriate the funds of the city in a budget which shall provide for the
orderly management of city revenues. (KRS 83A.130(12))
   (B)   The Council shall have the right to investigate all activities of city
government. The Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and
submit to it sworn statements regarding his or her performance of his or her
official duties. Any statement required by the Council to be submitted or any
investigation undertaken by the Council, if any office, department, or agency
under the jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted as
undertaken unless and until written notice of the Council’s action is given to
the Mayor. The Mayor shall have the right to review any statement before
submission to the Council and to appear personally or through his or her
designee on behalf of any department, office, or agency in the course of any
investigation.
(KRS 83A.130(13)) (Ord. 89-04, passed 2-14-89)
§ 31.04 ELECTIONS TO BE NONPARTISAN.
   Pursuant to KRS 83A.045(1)(b), the city hereby elects to forego conducting a
nonpartisan primary election for the nomination of candidates to city office,
regardless of the number of candidates running for each office, and requires
all candidates to file a nominating petition with the County Clerk as provided
by KRS Chapter 118.
(Ord. 89-04, passed 2-14-89; Am. Ord. 91-01, passed 2-26-91)
§ 31.05 LOCATION AND TIME OF COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The official meeting place of the City Council shall be located at
City Hall, located at 3940 Grandview Avenue.
   (B)   The city council shall hold its regular meetings the second and fourth
Tuesday of each month at 7:00 p.m.
(Ord. 8, passed 4-22-58; Ord. 10, passed 7-19-60; Ord. 12-1986, passed 8-12-86;
Am. Ord. 94-01, passed 3-8-94; Am. Ord. 18-07, passed 8-28-18; Am. Ord. 19-01,
passed 4-23-19)
NONELECTIVE OFFICIALS
§ 31.15 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   There is hereby established the office of city clerk as a nonelective
city office under KRS 83A.080.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the city clerk shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the "official custodian" or
"custodian" pursuant to KRS 61.870 through 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used; and
      (4)   Performance of all duties and responsibilities required of the city
clerk by statute or ordinance.
(KRS 83A.085) (Ord. 89-05, passed 2-14-89)
      (5)   (a)   Pursuant to KRS 241.160, the statutory duties of the
Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator are hereby assigned to the duly
appointed and qualified City Clerk.
         (b)   The officer referred to in division (B)(5)(a) of this section
shall perform those duties required of the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator as
specified in KRS Chapters 241 through 244 and perform such other duties as are
required by law or by ordinance of the City Council. Said officer is hereby
authorized to issue those licenses authorized by law or ordinance. (Ord. 01-08,
passed 6-26-01)
   (C)   The office of City Clerk may be combined with the office of City
Treasurer by the appointment of the same person to both positions. When the
same person has been appointed to both positions, such person shall possess all
the powers and authority vested in each office, and shall have the
responsibilities of each of said offices.
(Ord. 99-05, passed 8-24-99)
Editor’s Note:
   Ord. 12-08, passed 6-26-2012, codified at §
31.17, establishes the office of Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator,
thereby superseding the provisions of § 31.15(B)(5)(a) and (b)
§ 31.16 CITATION ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   There is hereby created a non-elected city office to be known as
“Enforcement Officer”. This office is created under the authority and with all
the powers of a Citation 0fficer under KRS 83A.087 and with power to enforce
city ordinances under KRS 83A.065.
   (B)   Qualifications and appointment. No person shall be appointed
Enforcement Officer unless he or she is:
      (1)   At least 21 years of age; a high school graduate or has received a
general equivalency diploma (G.E.D.), or above; and
      (2)   Is sober, moral, and sagacious; and further
      (3)   No person who has been convicted of a felony is eligible for
appointment;
      (4)   Before entering upon his/her duties of office, an Enforcement
Officer shall take the oath prescribed by Kentucky Constitution, Section 228.
      (5)   If required by the city, he or she must be bondable in such amount
as may be fixed by the city from time to time and which bond shall be filed
with the City Clerk.
      (6)   The office or position may be deemed part-time, or full-time, with
compensation as may set by the city from time to time. The city may appoint
more than one Enforcement Officer, either full or part-time.
      (7)   The appointment of any Enforcement Officer shall be made by the
Mayor and approved by the City Council.
   (C)   Powers and duties. Enforcement Officer(s) shall not have the powers of
a peace officer to make arrests, or to carry deadly weapons, but may issue
citations, unless otherwise restricted by the City Council, upon the observance
of:
      (1)   Non-moving motor vehicle offenses;
      (2)   Violations of city ordinances, except for moving motor vehicle
offenses and except for offenses which constitute a violation of the Kentucky
Penal Code.
      (3)   Any other duties prescribed by the Mayor and City Council and not
contrary to law, including:
         (a)   In accordance with KRS 241.160, an Enforcement Officer may also
be assigned by the city to serve as the Alcoholic Beverage Control
Administrator and (in that event) shall exercise all the functions and have the
powers authorized under Kentucky Revised Statutes and city ordinances for an
Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator.
         (b)   Enforcement of binding element violations, if designated by the
Planning Commission as a Land Use Enforcement Officer.
         (c)   Enforcement of any zoning regulation under authority of KRS 271.
         (d)   Enforcement of sign regulations in the city.
      (4)   The procedure for citations issued by a Citation Officer shall be
as provided in KRS 431.015.
      (5)   Nothing contained herein shall limit the power of a Citation
Officer to make an arrest as a private person as provided in KRS 431.005.
(Ord. 16-10, passed 9-13-16)
______________
Editor’s note:
   Code Enforcement Board, see Ch. 38
§ 31.17 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of City Alcoholic Beverage Control
Administrator, to be known as the city “ABC Administrator” or “Alcoholic
Beverage Control Administrator.”
   (B)   The city ABC Administrator shall be appointed by the Mayor subject to
the approval of the City Council.
   (C)   The person appointed the city’s ABC Administrator shall be a minimum
of 30 years of age, of good moral character, and shall have those
qualifications prescribed by KRS 241.100.
   (D)   Before entering upon his or her duties of office, he or she shall:
      (1)   Take the Oath prescribed by Section 228 of the Kentucky
Constitution;
      (2)   Execute bond with good corporate surety in the penal sum of not
less than $1,000.
   (E)   The functions of City ABC Administrator shall be the same with respect
to city licenses and regulations as the functions of the county board with
respect to state licenses and regulations, except that no regulation by a city
ABC Administrator may be less stringent than the states relating to alcoholic
beverage control board or the regulations of the board.
   (F)   The City Council finds that an emergency exists with respect to the
adoption and implementation of this section and the appointment of a city ABC
Administrator due to the fact that this is the last meeting of the City Council
prior to the expiration date of all city alcohol licenses and the renewal
thereof and the city needs a person in place to handle those licenses.
(Ord. 12-08, passed 6-26-12)
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic beverages, see
Chapter 111
Statutory reference:
   Appointment and functions of city ABC Administrator, see KRS 241.160,
241.170(2), 241.190
CHAPTER 32: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section:
   
32.01   Establishment
   
32.02   Officer duties, compensation, appointment
   
32.03   Oversight and operational control
   
32.04   Discipline
   
32.05   Police Steering Committee established
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The St. Matthews Police Department is established for the purpose of
protecting the health, welfare, and property of all persons in the city. The
Police Department is not subject to any civil service plan under Kentucky
Revised Statutes.
   (B)   The office of Police Chief is hereby created. The Chief shall, plan,
organize, direct, coordinate, and evaluate all activities, programs and
personnel of the Police Department to provide police services for the city and
enforce laws, formulate and implement departmental policies, procedures and
rules and regulations, be the direct supervisor over all police personnel,
create and submit to the city the annual budget allocation for the Police
Department and administer that budget, ensure that all Department reports,
citations and other documents are accurately prepared and maintained on all
police activities, ensure the proper use of police cruisers and other
departmental equipment, prepare and authorize work schedules, receive
complaints from the public; patrol the city on regular scheduled shifts,
maintain proper record system pertaining to all reports, correspondence and
citations, participate in recertification courses and schedule subordinates for
training, assist outside agencies in emergency situations, make sure that all
filings and certifications for the Department and all officers are kept current
and up to date, the Chief of Police shall provide for order at all City Council
meetings. The Chief of Police shall possess those powers granted by KRS 95.019.
   (C)   The Police Department shall consist of the number of police officers
as the city determines is necessary to accomplish the Department’s purpose.
Officers shall have and possess all powers conferred upon them by statute of
the Commonwealth, including KRS 95.019, or by ordinance of the city.
   (D)   Primary jurisdiction of the Department shall be the incorporated area
of the city, but countywide jurisdiction is conferred by Kentucky Revised
Statutes. The primary jurisdiction may be expanded to include the incorporated
area of another city that shares police services with the city, pursuant to the
Interlocal Cooperation Act.
   (E)   In accordance with the provisions of KRS 189.920(3), the Police
Department motor vehicles shall be equipped with a combination of red and blue
flashing, rotating or oscillating lights.
(Ord. 01, Series 2024, passed 2-27-24)
§ 32.02 OFFICER DUTIES, COMPENSATION, APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   Duties. Police officers shall enforce the provisions of all statutes
and ordinances, arrest and/or issue citations to violators thereof, maintain
records, prepare necessary reports, serve writs, summonses, and other
processes, function as conservators of the peace and comply with all standards
set out in the Standard Operating Procedures Manual.
   (B)   Police operations shall be conducted by properly trained and certified
police officers only and it shall be the continuing duty of the Police Chief to
ensure that a full background check has been done of all potential new hires to
ensure they have the required training, qualifications, and certification to be
police officers under Kentucky law and that they are additionally certified
under the Peace Officers Professional Standards Act (POPS).
   (C)   No routine, regular police operations shall be conducted outside the
city boundaries of the city without the approval of the Police Chief, except,
city officers may assist/backup other police or law enforcement agencies
outside the city limits in the event of an emergency. Jurisdiction may be
expanded to include the incorporated area of another city that shares police
services with the city, pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act.
   (D)   No outside patrols or security services may be performed by any member
of the Police Department unless and until a prior written authorization for
such work is approved at least 24 hours in advance of the event by the Chief of
Police. If time constraints preclude the 24-hour notice, the Chief of Police or
an assistant chief may approve such work verbally, but written authorization
must still be completed per the Standard Operating Procedures. The Mayor may
also reverse any off-duty approval they believe to be detrimental to the city.
   (E)   Compensation. Police officers shall be compensated at the rate set
forth by the city’s pay classification ordinance.
   (F)   Appointment. Appointment to the office of Chief of Police shall be on
the recommendation of the Mayor with the consent and approval of the City
Council. The Chief of Police shall appoint police officers with the consent and
approval of the Police Steering Committee and Mayor. The following shall apply
to all police hires:
      (1)   Applicants are required to fill out an application for employment,
providing prescribed background information which will be verified by the Chief
of Police or their designated representative.
      (2)   Applicants will meet the hiring requirements in accordance with
Kentucky law, the Department of Criminal Justice Training standards, and
certified under the Peace Office Professional Standards (POPS).
      (3)   Criminal history background investigations will be conducted on all
prospective officers to ensure that there are no previous felony convictions.
      (4)   Driver’s license history will be checked to ensure that all
prospective officers have a valid Kentucky operator’s license.
      (5)   Upon appointment and before the commencement of service each police
officer shall be administered an oath of office consistent with Section 228 of
the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky; and shall pledge to
faithfully discharge the duties of their office.
      (6)   Newly hired police officers will be hired on a probationary basis,
for a period of one year. During this period, officers may be terminated
without cause or with cause.
      (7)   Newly hired police officers with no prior police certification will
be required to attend the Kentucky Department of Criminal Justice Training
Police Academy to be certified as a police officer.
(Ord. 01, Series 2024, passed 2-27-24)
§ 32.03 OVERSIGHT AND OPERATIONAL CONTROL.
   (A)   The executive authority of the city is vested in and exercised by the
Mayor, with the exception that the Chief of Police is the direct supervisor of
all police personnel under his or her command. Police personnel are subject to
the Standard Operating Procedure Manual (SOP), and where not in conflict, the
city personnel policies shall also apply to police personnel.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall promulgate Standard Operating Procedures
(SOP) to ensure the orderly administration of the functions of the Police
Department. The Chief of Police will bring any significant SOP changes to the
Police Steering Committee for its consent and approval.
   (C)   The Chief shall inform the Police Steering Committee of information
relating to police operations to include, but not limited to police projects,
policy changes, budget issues, current crime trends, personnel issues, possible
or actual complaints on officers and other pertinent information regarding the
Police Department. If there is any matter in the Chief's report which by its
nature involves a serious matter of personnel or pending litigation, the Police
Steering Committee Chairman, City Attorney or Mayor shall report this matter in
a properly called executive session of the City Council.
   (D)   The Chief of Police is responsible for the day-to-day operation of the
Police Department and the scheduling of officers assigned to the Police
Department, subject to the direction of the Mayor as to what must be covered,
whether it is a specific event, or whether it is a specific time. The Mayor is
fully within their executive authority to make directives about specific areas
and times for which police coverage is required. The Mayor has full supervisory
authority concerning the actions of the Chief of Police. The Chief of Police
reports directly to the Mayor.
   (E)   The Chief of Police has the authority and responsibility for the
allocation, care, and maintenance of the equipment of the Police Department,
according to city ordinance, state law and the city’s standard operating
procedures. The Chief of Police must keep and maintain an updated full
inventory of all equipment of the Police Department, which shall be reviewed at
least annually through the police budget approval process. The Mayor has the
authority to require immediate submittal of any documentary evidence showing
the current inventory of all Police Department assets and equipment.
   (F)   Prior to May 1 of each year, the Chief of Police will submit to the
Mayor a proposed budget to fund all aspects of the Police Department for the
fiscal year starting July 1 and ending June 30. The proposed police budget will
include specific, line-item requests for each resource necessary to run the
Police Department. The Police Chief’s entire budget proposal will then be
submitted to the City Council for its consideration, modification, approval, or
rejection according to its authority under Kentucky law.
   (G)   The Police Department cannot spend any more city funds than were
allocated for the Police Department in the city’s annual budget ordinance
without specific authorization from the Police Steering Committee upon approval
by the City Council. It is the responsibility of the Police Chief to make sure
the Police Department stays within its budget per the Steering Committee
recommendations and approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 01, Series 2024, passed 2-27-24)
§ 32.04 DISCIPLINE.
   The Policeman’s Bill of Rights contained in KRS 15.520 will only apply to a
member of the Police Department if the city participates in the Kentucky Law
Enforcement Foundation Program (KLEFP) and the other prerequisites of KRS
15.520 are met. Each new hire is on probation for one year following their
hiring and is an at-will employee during that probationary period.
(Ord. 01, Series 2024, passed 2-27-24)
§ 32.05 POLICE STEERING COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Police Steering Committee, which is a
standing committee of the City Council. The Police Steering Committee shall be
comprised of the executive command staff (Chief of Police and assistant
chiefs), the Mayor, and two current members of the City Council. The City
Council members shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent and approval
of the City Council.
   (B)   The Police Steering Committee’s primary function is to participate in
reviewing the activities, personnel, discipline, future planning, and spending
of the Police Department to better inform the City Council on these matters.
   (C)   The Police Steering Committee reports to the City Council any
potential liability, personnel issues or possible disciplinary issues relating
to the Police Department.
   (D)   The Police Steering Committee serves as the first appeals process in
any disciplinary hearing as outlined by the Standard Operating Procedures and
Policeman’s Bill of Rights.
   (E)   The Police Steering Committee does not have supervisory or executive
power and instead gathers information and makes recommendations to the City
Council.
(Ord. 01, Series 2024, passed 2-27-24)
CHAPTER 33: TAXATION AND FINANCE
Section
   
33.01   Ad valorem tax
   
33.02   City tax collector
   
33.03   Use of annual county assessment for real estate situated in city
Financial Management and Investment Policy
   
33.15 Definitions
   
33.16 Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.17 Annual budget ordinance
   
33.18 Annual audit of city funds
   
33.19 Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
   
33.20 Fiscal year
   
33.21 Investment policies
   
33.22 Scope
   
33.23 Investment objectives
   
33.24 Investment authority
   
33.25 Standards of care
   
33.26 Authorized financial institutions, depositories, and brokers/dealers
   
33.27 Safekeeping and custody
   
33.28 Suitable and authorized investments
   
33.29 Investment parameters
   
33.30 Performance standards/evaluation
   
33.31 Reporting/disclosure
   
33.32 Policy considerations
   
33.33 Approval of investment policy
§ 33.01 AD VALOREM TAX.
   (A)   The City of St. Matthews does hereby elect to use the Jefferson County
Property Valuation Administration tax assessment of all real estate located in
the city as of January 1, as the basis for ad valorem taxes for the city for
the fiscal year ending June 30.
   (B)   An ad valorem tax for the fiscal year of the city ending June 30 is
hereby levied and fixed at a rate specified by Ordinance 24-07 on each $100 of
all real estate assessed for taxation and subject by said city under assessment
date of January 1 as made by the Jefferson County Property Valuation
Administrator.
   (C)   The Mayor or City Clerk shall cause the tax bills to be made out and
sequentially numbered and mail tax bills from the assessment roles as certified
on or before October 1.
   (D)   The payment of tax bills shall be made to the City of St. Matthews
subject to the discounts and penalties listed below and the collection remedies
provided by law:
      (1)   A discount of a rate specified by Ordinance 24-07 of the face
amount of the bill shall be allowed if the tax is paid on or before October 31.
Actual receipt or postmark shall determine the date of payment. Where the final
date for payment is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the time period is
automatically extended to the following date which is not a Saturday, Sunday or
legal holiday. Postmark shall be conclusive evidence of time of receipt;
      (2)   The face amount of the bill shall be payable during November or
December;
      (3)   In the event any owner fails to pay the taxes assessed against him
prior to January 1, there is hereby levied as a penalty an amount equal to 10%
of the tax payable plus interest from January 1, until paid at the rate of 1.5%
per month or part thereof, compounded monthly, or $10 if the penalty and
interest is less than that amount;
      (4)   All delinquent tax collection expenses incurred by the city,
including lien filing and release fees, as well as cost of attorney fees for
collection shall be deemed a penalty in addition to that specified in division
(D)(3) above and shall be encompassed within the city's lien. For lien filing
and release only, the attorney fee shall be $150. If there are additional
collection costs, including, but not limited to initiating or responding to
legal action, collection fees of an additional $150 per hour will be charged.
      (5)   The proceeds of such taxes, penalties, and interest are to be
placed in the general fund of the City of St. Matthews and are to be used for
the general operating purposes and expenses of the city such as the purchase of
city supplies, purchase and maintenance of city property, street repair,
garbage collection, police protection, and all other necessary and proper
municipal functions as may be properly ordained or resolved by the City
Council.
(Ord. 19-12, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 20-08, 9-22-20; Am. Ord. 21-07, passed 9-28-
21; Am. Ord. 22-06, passed 9-27-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 9-26-23; Am. Ord.
24-07, passed 9-24-24)
§ 33.02 CITY TAX COLLECTOR.
   The City Treasurer is designated the city tax collector, and he or she is
directed to proceed as authorized by law to collect all taxes and special
assessments that may be due or become due the city.
(Res., passed 4-4-70)
§ 33.03 USE OF ANNUAL COUNTY ASSESSMENT FOR REAL ESTATE SITUATED IN CITY.
   The city does elect to use the annual county assessment for property
situated within the city as a basis for ad valorem tax levies ordered or
approved by the city council on or after January 1, 1982.
(Ord. 22, passed 12-12-81)
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 33.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "BUDGET." A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities or objectives during a fiscal year.
   "DEBT SERVICE." The sum of money required to pay installments of principal
and interest on bonds, notes and other evidences of debt accruing within a
fiscal year, and to maintain sinking funds.
   "ENCUMBRANCES." Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an "ENCUMBRANCE"
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   "FISCAL YEAR." The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   "GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS." Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
   "GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING." Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(Ord. 19-11, passed 9-10-19)
§ 33.16 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial reports in a
way as to:
   (A)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions;
   (B)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations of
constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with generally
accepted governmental accounting principles; and
   (C)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(Ord. 19-11, passed 9-10-19)
§ 33.17 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. No monies shall
be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund except in accordance with
a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Monies held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Council.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in the form and detail as
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to the Council not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal year
it covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the governmental
goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain important
features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the reasons for
stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs and
appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   Council shall adopt a budget ordinance making appropriations for the
fiscal year in those sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether greater or
less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The budget ordinance may
take any form that the Council finds most efficient in enabling it to make the
necessary fiscal policy decisions.
   (I)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for appropriation
to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of § 157 of the Kentucky
Constitution.
   (J)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated for all governmental fund types.
   (K)   The Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance's adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (L)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. That responsibility includes the
preparation on and submission to the Council of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. The reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (M)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system.
   (N)   No city agency, or member, director, officer or employee of any city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements and obligations, express or implied, beyond the existing
appropriations are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond, certificate
or warrant for the payment of money by the city in any way to any extent,
beyond the unexpended balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(Ord. 19-11, passed 9-10-19)
§ 33.18 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The city shall, after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund
of the city to be audited by the Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified
public accountant. The audits shall be completed by February 1 immediately
following the fiscal year being audited. Within ten days of the completion of
the audit and its presentation to the City Council, the city shall forward a
copy of the audit report to the Department for Local Government for information
purposes.
   (B)   Each city required by this section to conduct an annual or biennial
audit shall enter into a written contract with the selected auditor. The
contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall
include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual city audit report an
examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to the city
per KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification with the
annual audit report that the funds were expended for the purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which include tests of the accounting
records and auditing procedures considered necessary in the circumstances;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor's opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit.
   (C)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the Council at a regular or special meeting; and
   (D)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (E)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the city legislative body, publish an advertisement, in accordance with KRS
Chapter 424, containing:
      (1)   The auditor's opinion letter;
      (2)   The "Budgetary Comparison Schedules - Major Funds," which shall
include the General Fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at City Hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from City Hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $0.10 per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220 are available to the public at no cost at the
business address of the officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (F)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined
not less than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any officer who fails to
comply with any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be
subject to a forfeiture of not less than $50 nor more than $500, in the
discretion of the court, which may be recovered only once, in a civil action
brought by any resident of the city. The costs of all proceedings, including a
reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident bringing the action, shall be
assessed against the unsuccessful party.
   (G)   Within a reasonable time after the completion of a special audit or
examination conducted pursuant to state law, the auditor shall bill the city
for the actual expense of the audit or examination conducted. The actual
expense shall include the hours of work performed on the audit or examination
as well as reasonable associated costs, including but not limited to travel
costs. The bill submitted to the city shall include a statement of the hourly
rate, total hours and total costs for the entire audit or examination.
(Ord. 19-11, passed 9-10-19)
§ 33.19 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Council shall designate as the city's official depositories one or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the Commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with 12 U.S.C. § 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any obligations,
including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Council which
states the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the
payment and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization
shall be numbered and recorded.
(Ord. 19-11, passed 9-10-19)
§ 33.20 FISCAL YEAR.
   July 1 to June 30 is hereby established as the fiscal year for the operation
of the city.
(Ord. 19-11, passed 9-10-19)
§ 33.21 INVESTMENT POLICIES.
   It is the policy of the City of St. Matthews to invest public funds in a
manner which will provide the maximum security and highest investment of
principle while meeting the daily cash flow demands on the City of St. Matthews
and conforming to both KRS 91A.060 and KRS 66.480. This investment policy
applies to all financial assets held directly by the City of St. Matthews.
These financial assets are accounted for in the City of St. Matthews annual
financial report and include all monies in investment fund accounts.
(Ord. 19-11, passed 9-10-19)
§ 33.22 SCOPE.
   This investment policy applies to all financial assets held directly by the
city. These financial assets are accounted for in the city's annual financial
report and include all monies in the following funds:
   (A)   General Fund;
   (B)   Special Revenue Fund;
   (C)   Capital Projects Fund;
   (D)   Enterprise Fund;
   (E)   Utility Depreciation Fund;
   (F)   Agency Fund; and
   (G)   Any new fund created by the governing body.
(Ord. 19-11, passed 9-10-19)
§ 33.23 INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES.
   The City of St. Matthews' primary investment objectives, in order of
priority, are the following:
   (A)   Safety. Safety of principle is the foremost objective of the City of
St. Matthews' investment program. Investments shall be undertaken in a manner
that seeks to ensure the preservation of capital in the overall portfolio. The
goal is to mitigate credit risk and interest rate risk.
   (B)   Liquidity. The City of St. Matthews' investment portfolio shall remain
sufficiently liquid to enable the City of St. Matthews to meet all operating
requirements which might be reasonably anticipated.
   (C)   Return on investment. The City of St. Matthews' investment portfolio
shall be designed with the objective of attaining a market rate of return
throughout the budgetary and economic cycles, taking into account the City of
St. Matthews' investment risk constraints and the cash flow characteristics of
the portfolio.
(Ord. 19-11, passed 9-10-19)
§ 33.24 INVESTMENT AUTHORITY.
   Management's responsibility for the City of St. Matthews investment program
is the joint responsibility of the Designated Officials, which shall be the
Mayor and the City Treasurer. Both shall share the authority, subject to the
approval of the governing body, to establish additional specific written
procedures for the operation of the investment program that are consistent with
this investment policy. The procedures shall include explicit delegation of
authority, if any, to persons responsible for investment transactions. No
person may engage in an investment transaction except as provided under the
terms of this policy and the procedures established by the Designated
Officials. These Designated Officials shall be ultimately responsible for all
transactions undertaken and shall establish a system of controls to regulate
the activities of subordinate officials and employees. The controls shall be
designed to prevent and control losses of public funds arising from fraud,
employee error, misrepresentation by third parties, unanticipated changes in
financial markets or imprudent actions by officers and employees. The
Designated Officials shall maintain all records related to the entity's
investment program.
(Ord. 19-11, passed 9-10-19)
§ 33.25 STANDARDS OF CARE.
   (A)   Prudence. The actions of the Designated Officials in the performance
of their duties as managers of the City of St. Matthews' funds shall be
evaluated using the "prudent person" standard. Investments shall be made with
judgment and care under prevailing circumstances which persons of prudence,
discretion, and intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs,
not for speculation, but for investment considering the probable safety of
their capital as well as the probable income to be derived. The Designated
Officials, acting in accordance with written procedures, this investment
policy, and exercising due diligence shall be relieved of personal
responsibility for an individual security's performance, provided that
deviations from expectations are reported in a timely fashion to the governing
body and appropriate action is taken to control adverse developments.
   (B)   Ethics and conflicts of interest. Officers and employees involved in
the investment process shall refrain from personal activity that could conflict
with the proper execution and management of the investment program, or that
could impair their ability to make impartial investment decisions. Employees
and investment officials shall disclose any material interests in financial
institutions with which they conduct business. Disclosure shall be made to the
governing body. They shall further disclose any personal financial/investment
positions that could be related to the performance of the investment portfolio.
Employees and officers shall refrain from undertaking any personal investment
transactions with the same individual with whom business is conducted on behalf
of the city.
   (C)   Delegation of authority.
      (1)   Governing body. The governing body will retain ultimate fiduciary
responsibility for the portfolios. The governing body will receive monthly
reports, designate Designated Officials and review the investment policy making
any changes necessary by adoption.
      (2)   Designated Officials. Authority to manage the investment program is
granted to the Mayor and the City Treasurer, hereinafter referred to as
Designated Officials as designated by this subchapter. Responsibility for the
operation of the investment program is hereby delegated to the Designated
Officials who shall act in accordance with established written procedures and
internal controls for the operation of the investment program consistent with
this investment policy. Officers will prepare monthly investment reports and
other special reports as may be deemed necessary. All participants in the
investment process shall seek to act responsibly as custodians of the public
trust. No officer or designee may engage in an investment transaction except as
provided under the terms of this policy and supporting procedures.
      (3)   Investment adviser. The city may engage the services of one or more
external investment managers to assist in the management of the entity's
investment portfolio in a manner consistent with the city's objectives. Such
external managers may be granted discretion to purchase and sell investment
securities in accordance with this investment policy. Such managers must be
registered under the Investment Adviser Act of 1940.
(Ord. 19-11, passed 9-10-19)
§ 33.26 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, DEPOSITORIES, AND BROKERS/DEALERS.
   A list will be maintained of financial institutions and depositories
authorized to provide investment services. In addition, a list will I be
maintained of approved security brokers/dealers selected by conducting a
process of due diligence. These may include 'primary" dealers or regional
dealers that qualify under Securities and Exchange Council (SEC) Rule 15C3-1
(uniform net capital rule).
   (A)   The Designated Officials shall determine which financial institutions
are authorized to provide investment services to the city. Institutions
eligible to transact investment business with the city include:
      (1)   Primary government dealers as designated by the Federal Reserve
Bank;
      (2)   Nationally or state-chartered banks;
      (3)   The Federal Reserve Bank;
      (4)   Direct issuers of securities eligible for purchase; and
      (5)   Kentucky League of Cities Investment Pool Plus.
   (B)   Selection of financial institutions and broker/dealers authorized to
engage in transactions with the City of St. Matthews shall be at the sole
discretion of the city.
   (C)   All brokers/dealers who desire to become qualified for investment
transaction must supply the following (as appropriate):
      (1)   Audited financial statements demonstrating compliance with state
and federal capital adequacy guidelines;
      (2)   Proof of state registration;
      (3)   Completed broker/dealer questionnaire (not applicable to
Certificate of Deposit counterparties);
      (4)   Certification of having read and understood and agreeing to comply
with the entity's investment policy and evidence of adequate insurance
coverage.
   (D)   All financial institutions who desire to become depositories must
supply the following (as appropriate):
      (1)   Audited financial statements demonstrating compliance with state
and federal capital adequacy guidelines;
      (2)   Proof of state registration; and
      (3)   Evidence of adequate insurance coverage.
   (E)   A periodic review of the financial condition and registration of all
qualified financial institutions and broker/dealers will be conducted by the
Designated Officials.
      (1)   Minority, emerging and community financial institutions. From time
to time, the Designated Officials may choose to invest in instruments offered
by minority, emerging, and community financial institutions. All terms and
relationships will be fully disclosed prior to purchase and be reported to the
appropriate entity on a consistent basis and should be consistent with Kentucky
law and city ordinance.
      (2)   Competitive transactions.
         (a)   The Designated Officials shall obtain competitive bid
information on all purchases of investment instruments purchased on the
secondary market. A competitive bid can be executed through a bidding process
involving at least three separate brokers/financial institutions or through the
use of a nationally recognized trading platform.
         (b)   If the city is offered a security for which there is no readily
available competitive offering on the same specific issue, then the Designated
Officials shall document quotations for comparable or alternative securities.
When purchasing original issue instrumentality securities, no competitive
offerings will be required as all dealers in the selling group offer those
securities as the same original issue price.
         (c)   If the city hires an investment adviser to provide investment
management services, the adviser must provide documentation of competitive
pricing execution on each transaction. The investment adviser will retain
documentation and provide upon request.
(Ord. 19-11, passed 9-10-19)
§ 33.27 SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   (A)   Delivery vs. payment. All trades of marketable securities will be
executed (cleared and settled) on a delivery vs. payment (DVP) basis to ensure
that securities are deposited in the entity's safekeeping institution prior to
the release of funds.
   (B)   Third-party safekeeping. Securities will be held by an independent
third party safekeeping institution selected by the City of St. Matthews. All
securities will be evidenced by safekeeping receipts in the name of the City of
St. Matthews. The safekeeping institution shall annually provide a copy of its
most recent report on internal controls - Service Organization Control Reports
(formerly 70, or SAS 70) prepared in accordance with the Statement on Standards
for Attestation Engagements (SSAE) No. 16 (effective June 15, 2011).
   (C)   Internal controls. Management shall establish a system of internal
controls, which shall be documented in writing. The internal controls shall be
reviewed by the investment committee, where present, and with the independent
auditor. The controls shall be designed to prevent the loss of public funds
arising from fraud, employee error, and misrepresentation by third parties,
unanticipated changes in financial markets, or imprudent actions by employees
and officers of the city.
(Ord. 19-11, passed 9-10-19)
§ 33.28 SUITABLE AND AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   Investment types and credit guidelines. Consistent with the GFOA
Policy Statement and Kentucky laws and city ordinances concerning investment
practices the investments as defined by KRS 66.480, are allowed. KRS 66.480(2)
restricts overall investment in KRS 66.480(1)(e), (f), (g), (k), and (l) of the
following types of securities to 20% of total local government investments:
      (1)   U.S. government obligations and instrumentalities including
obligations subject to repurchase, if delivery of these obligations is taken
directly or through an authorized custodian. (See also KRS 66.480(1)(a))
      (2)   U.S. Treasury and other U.S. government obligations that carry the
full faith and credit guarantee of the United States for the payment of
principal and interest. (See also KRS 66.480(1)(b))
      (3)   Federal Agency or U.S. government-sponsored enterprises (GSE)
obligations, participations or other instruments. (See also KRS 66.480(1)(c))
      (4)   CDs issued by or other interest-bearing accounts of any bank or
savings and loan institution having a physical presence in Kentucky and that
are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or similar entity or
that are collateralized by any obligations, including surety bonds, permitted
by KRS 41.240. (See also KRS 66.480(1)(d))
      (5)   Uncollateralized CDs issued by any bank or savings and loan having
a physical presence in Kentucky rated in one of three highest categories by a
competent rating agency. (See also KRS 66.480(1)(e))
      (6)   Bankers' acceptances, which must be rated in one of the three
highest categories by a competent rating agency. (See also KRS 66.480(1)(f))
      (7)   Commercial paper, rated in the highest tier (e.g., A-I, P-l, F-l,
or D 1 or higher) by a competent rating organization. KRS 66.480(1)(g).
      (8)   Bonds or certificates of indebtedness of this state and of its
agencies and instrumentalities. (See also KRS 66.480(1)(h))
      (9)   Investment-grade obligations of state or local governments or
instrumentality thereof rated one of three highest categories by a competent
rating agency. (See also KRS 66.480(1)(i))
      (10)   Shares of mutual funds and exchange traded funds as identified by
KRS 66.480(1)(j).
      (11)   Individual equity securities if the funds are managed by a
professional investment manager regulated by a federal regulatory agency and
are included within the S&P 500 pursuant to KRS 66.480(1)(k).
      (12)   Individual high-quality corporate bonds managed by a professional
investment manager pursuant to KRS 66.480(1)(l).
   (B)   Important note. If the credit rating of a security is subsequently
downgraded below the minimum rating level for a new investment of that
security, the Designated Officials shall evaluate the downgrade on a case-by-
case basis in order to determine if the security should be held or sold. The
Designated Officials will apply the general objectives of safety, liquidity,
yield and legality to make the decision.
   (C)   Collateralization. Where allowed or required by Kentucky law full
collateralization will be required on all demand deposit accounts, including
checking accounts and negotiable (as authorized by respective state statutes)
and non-negotiable certificates of deposit.
   (D)   Authorized collateral. Acceptable collateral for bank deposits and
repurchase agreements shall include only:
      (1)   Obligations of the U.S. government, its agencies and GSEs,
including mortgage-backed securities; and
      (2)   Obligations of any state, city, county or authority rated at least
AA by two nationally recognized statistical rating organizations.
(Ord. 19-11, passed 9-10-19)
§ 33.29 INVESTMENT PARAMETERS.
   Credit risk is the risk that a security or a portfolio will lose some or all
of its value due to a real or perceived change in the ability of the issuer to
repay its debt. The city shall mitigate credit risk by adopting a
Diversification strategy as follows: It is the policy of the City of St
Matthews to diversify its investment portfolios within the restrictions of
state and federal law. KRS 66.480(2)(a) limits local government investment in
securities to 20% of total investment with no more than 5% of total investment
in a single issuer absent exceptions in KRS 66.480(2)(d)(1)-(4). Furthermore,
local governments are restricted from investing 40% of allowed securities
investment total in mutual funds and exchange traded funds, individual equity
securities, and individual high-quality corporate bonds by KRS 66.480(2)(b).
(Ord. 19-11, passed 9-10-19)
§ 33.30 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS/EVALUATION.
   The city's investment management portfolio shall be designed with the levels
of risk appropriate to conform to performance benchmarks while meeting cash
flow demands and complying with state law.
(Ord. 19-11, passed 9-10-19)
§ 33.31 REPORTING/DISCLOSURE.
   Methods. The Designated Officials shall submit, at least quarterly, an
investment report that summarizes recent market conditions, economic
developments and anticipated investment conditions. The report shall summarize
the investment strategies employed in the most recent quarter, and describe the
portfolio in terms of investment securities, maturities, risk characteristics
and other features. The report shall explain the quarter's total investment
return and compare the return with budgetary expectations. The report shall
include an appendix that discloses all transactions during the past quarter.
The report shall be in compliance with Kentucky law and shall be distributed to
the investment committee and others as required by law. Each quarterly report
shall indicate any areas of policy concern and suggested or planned revision of
investment strategies. Copies shall be transmitted to the independent auditor.
Within 40 days of the end of the fiscal year, the Designated Officials shall
present a comprehensive annual report on the investment program and investment
activity. The annual report shall include both 12-month and quarterly
comparisons of return and shall suggest policies and improvements that might be
made in the investment program. Alternatively, this report may be included
within the city's Comprehensive Annual Financial Report.
(Ord. 19-11, passed 9-10-19)
§ 33.32 POLICY CONSIDERATIONS.
   (A)   Exemption. Any investment currently held that does not meet the
guidelines of this policy shall be exempted from the requirements of this
policy. At maturity or liquidation, such monies shall be reinvested only as
provided by this policy.
   (B)   Amendments. This policy shall be reviewed on an annual basis. Any
changes must be approved by the Designated Officials and any other appropriate
authority, as well as the individuals charged with maintaining internal
controls.
(Ord 19-11, passed 9-10-19)
§ 33.33 APPROVAL OF INVESTMENT POLICY.
   The investment policy and any modifications to that policy shall be formally
approved and adopted by the governing body of the City of St. Matthews.
(Ord. 19-11, passed 9-10-19)
CHAPTER 34: EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
Section
In General
   
34.01   Salaries
   
34.02   Bond
   
34.03   Employees retirement plan
Social Media Usage Policy
   
34.15   Purpose
   
34.16   Usage
   
34.17   Public officials/employee usage
   
34.18   Unacceptable conduct
   
34.19   Public submittals
   
34.20   Record keeping
   
34.21   Personal usage
IN GENERAL
§ 34.01 SALARIES.
   (A)   The salary for the mayor is fixed at the sum of $7,200 per year,
effective January 1, 1980.
   (B)   The salary for each councilman is fixed at the sum of $3,000 per year,
effective January 1, 1980.
   (C)   All salaries payable in this section shall be due and payable on the
last day of each calendar month for which the salary is due.
(Ord. 2, passed 1-22-80)
§ 34.02 BOND.
   (A)   The following persons shall, before entering on the duties of their
respective offices, execute bond to the city in the penal sum set opposite
their respective titles:
      (1)    Mayor, $10,000
      (2)    City clerk, $10,000
      (3)    City treasurer, $10,000
      (4)    Any other person authorized by the city to sign checks or warrants
for the payment of city funds, $10,00
   (B)   The bond of the city clerk shall be filed with the mayor, and all
other bonds shall be filed with the city clerk.
(Ord. 19, passed 10-28-80)
§ 34.03 EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT PLAN.
   (A)   The pension plan established for employees of the city is frozen,
effective February 1, 1987, to participation by those existing employees who
are then participating therein and who file with the city, on or before
February 1, 1987, a written election to continue participating therein in lieu
of participating in the County Employees Retirement System, hereinafter
referred to as CERS.
   (B)   The city elects to participate in CERS, effective February 1, 1987.
   (C)   All employees now participating in the existing city pension plan are
authorized to terminate that participation and transfer to CERS, at their
election.
   (D)   The city shall continue to fund and manage its existing pension plan
for the benefit of any employees electing to continue therein and those who are
entitled to benefits in that existing pension plan.
   (E)   Employees hired after February 1, 1987, who are otherwise eligible to
participate in the city pension plan shall participate only in CERS.
   (F)   The city adopts the terms and provisions of CERS under KRS 78.510 to
78.852, elects the alternate participation plan under KRS 78.530(3), and
declares its intention to enter into an agreement with the Board of Trustees
for the amortization of the costs of prior service credit over period of not
more than ll years commencing on or about February 1, 1987.
   (G)   The individual employee accounts in the existing city pension plan
shall be transferred to CERS for credit to the respective employees' individual
accounts in CERS pursuant to KRS 78.531(1), (2) upon the election of those
employees to participate in CERS.
(Ord. 87-01, passed 1-27-87)
SOCIAL MEDIA USAGE POLICY
§ 34.15 PURPOSE.
   The city does hereby adopt a policy regarding the use of social media for
the city’s communication of city information. The policy governs the use,
administration, management, monitoring and retention of the city’s social media
content. This policy is also applicable to any city website. The purpose of
this policy is to establish general standards and responsibilities when city
employees and elected officials are communicating about the city using social
media, to ensure that social media is being used appropriately and in
compliance with the city’s policies.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-11-23)
§ 34.16 USAGE.
   It is the policy of the city to use social media to provide information and
resources to the residents of the city and to provide another convenient point
of contact between the city and its citizens. The city shall use social media
to share information, reinforce messages, and provide an opportunity to
distribute information quickly and efficiently to a large audience. It is not
the policy of the city to create a public forum on any social media platforms,
or city websites, for political discussions, debate, or public comment. City
social media sites should clearly state that they are maintained by the city,
that they follow the city’s social media policy and that all content it subject
to public disclosure.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-11-23)
§ 34.17 PUBLIC OFFICIALS/EMPLOYEE USAGE.
   The city recognizes the role that social media tools play in the lives of
city government and the individuals that serve the city and acknowledges that
its employees have the right under the state and federal constitutions to speak
out on matters of public concern not related to their official duties. This
policy is not intended to interfere with any city employee or official’s right
to freedom of speech. However, the city does have the right to establish
minimal and reasonable restrictions on the use of social media by city
officials and employees who are communicating city information to encourage
constructive and positive use of social media for city government
communications. Therefore, all uses of social media on behalf of the city, or
in any manner that represents the city or constitutes communication by the
city, must comply with the following standards:
   (A)   No employee or city official may establish, use, or terminate an
official city social media identity, account, profile, page, or site without
the approval of the applicable department head or the mayor.
   (B)   The mayor shall designate persons who are authorized to post social
media content on the city’s social media accounts and no other person(s) shall
post content without prior authorization from the mayor.
   (C)   No information, link, or other materials or communications may be
posted on a departmental social media account that is not related to the
mission, services, and business objectives of the city.
   (D)   Social media accounts established by the city are to be used for city
business or informational purposes only. Communications and postings that are
not related to a city or department business purpose are prohibited.
   (E)   Any posts dealing with political or legislative initiatives or issues
must be specifically approved by the mayor prior to posting.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-11-23)
§ 34.18 UNACCEPTABLE CONTENT.
   The city considers the activities and uses of social media listed below to
be unacceptable. The city reserves the right to delete any information posted
on city’s social media sites that is unacceptable. This list is not exhaustive.
Questions about particular uses of social media or particular social media
content should be directed to the city clerk who will forward the question to
the mayor for a decision. Unacceptable uses of social media include:
   (A)   Using social media in a manner that does not comply with federal,
state, and local laws and regulations, and with city policies.
   (B)   Using social media in a manner that violates the copyright, trade or
other intellectual property rights of any person or entity, or otherwise
violates their legal ownership interests.
   (C)   Ethnic slurs, profanity, personal insults, material that is harassing,
defamatory, fraudulent, or discriminatory or other content or communications
that would not be acceptable in the city workplace under city or department
policy or practice.
   (D)   Obscene, indecent, or profane language, pictures, or videos.
   (E)   Fraudulent, deceptive, or misleading information.
   (F)   Comments not related to the posted topic for the city social media
page or post.
   (G)   Multiple, successive, off-topic posts by a single user or repetitive
posts copied and pasted by multiple users or spam.
   (H)   Promotion or endorsement of commercial services and products.
   (I)   Violates the terms of contracts governing the use of any social media
content, including, but not limited to, software and other intellectual
property licenses.
   (J)   Displays sexually explicit images, cartoons, jokes, messages, or other
material in violation of the city’s sexual harassment policy.
   (K)   Expressions of support, or in opposition to, a political party or
candidate before or during an election period.
   (L)   Contains confidential or “for official use only” information or
information that compromises the security of city networks or information
systems. Such “for official use only” or confidential information includes, but
is not limited to, information that is protected under the Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), being Pub. Law No. 104-191,
or other federal, state, or local laws and regulations (except as permitted
under such laws and regulations) as well as social security numbers and other
personally identifiable information.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-11-23)
§ 34.19 PUBLIC SUBMITTALS.
   It is not the intent of the city to allow postings or submittals by the
public on official city social media sites. However, the city may choose to
allow submittals or posts to an official city site if the content does not
violate the social media policy and it in keeping with the city’s stated
purpose of providing public information. Users shall not have the authority and
may not directly post their own content without prior approval of the city. If
approved by the city, the content will be posted by the designate persons who
are authorized to post social media content on the city’s social media accounts
and no other person(s). Reproduced or borrowed content that violates third
party rights will be hidden. Users should have no expectation of privacy when
asking approval for a post to a city site.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-11-23)
§ 34.20 RECORD KEEPING.
   The city clerk shall maintain a list of all official city social media
accounts including, at a minimum, the following information:
   (A)   The name, hosting site, Internet address, date of inception for the
account and a statement of the purpose and scope of the department’s use of the
account.
   (B)   All usernames, passwords, and other log-in credentials for the
account.
   (C)   All authorized persons having access to and/or responsibility for the
account.
   (D)   The administrative contacts and contact information for the account.
   (E)   The city shall ensure that all city social media accounts and social
media content are periodically reviewed for compliance with this policy and
that the information is kept secure.
   (F)   Social media content is subject to the records retention and
destruction schedule established by the state law whether or not the social
media is currently posted on the department’s site(s).
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-11-23)
§ 34.21 PERSONAL USAGE.
   City officials, including members of boards and Councils can maintain a
personal presence on social media. However, to be considered personal, there
can be no mention and discussion of city business. Any mention or discussion of
city business potentially changes the nature of the page, required record
keeping in accordance with the Kentucky Department of Library and Archives
retention schedule and subjecting the entire page to open records requests.
   (A)   Elected or appointed city officials who want to interact with the
community on social media in their role as a city official are required to
maintain a separate account. City officials will notify the city clerk of any
official pages utilized. The city clerk will maintain an updated list of
official pages of city officials.
   (B)   City Officials shall conduct themselves professionally and as a
representative of the city.
   (C)   Elected city official’s pages shall clearly indicate that any content
posted or submitted for posting is subject to public disclosure. Additionally,
guidelines, if any, shall be posted conspicuously on the page.
   (D)   No comments shall be deleted unless in violation of posted guidelines.
Deleted comments shall be provided to the city clerk and must be saved for one
year.
   (E)   City officials shall not conduct city business through their social
media sites. If receiving a specific request from a citizen, the city official
shall state: “Thank you for your question. Please email me at (official city
email address, not a personal email) or contact me at (phone number). I look
forward to speaking with you.”
   (F)   City officials shall maintain an official email address and shall
provide the email address to the city clerk. This must be a separate account
from their personal email account.
   (G)   Officials should refrain from using personal e-mail to conduct any
city business.
   (H)   The city shall retain emails according to the Kentucky Department of
Library and Archives schedule for email. City Officials shall direct any record
keeping questions to the city clerk.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-11-23)
CHAPTER 35: DISCRIMINATION AGAINST THE HANDICAPPED
Section
   
35.01   Grievance procedures established
   
35.02   Administration
   
35.03   Amendment of procedures
   
35.04   Grievance procedures
§ 35.01 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES ESTABLISHED.
   The procedures set forth in §
35.04 shall be the "grievance procedures" for anyone who believes he or she has
been discriminated against by the city, based on handicapped status with
respect to federally funded programs.
(Ord. 12, 1984, passed 8-28-84)
§ 35.02 ADMINISTRATION.
   The administration of these procedures and related federal and state
regulations shall be the responsibility of the Executive Authority of the city.
(Ord. 12, 1984, passed 8-28-84)
§ 35.03 AMENDMENT OF PROCEDURES.
   The procedures in this chapter may be amended by ordinance to comply with
court directives or additional federal and state regulations.
(Ord. 12, 1984, passed 8-28-84)
§ 35.04 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES.
   Any person (employee or citizen) who believes that he or she has been
subjected to discrimination as prohibited by the Federal Revenue Sharing
program regulations and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, may
personally or by a representative, file a complaint with the Office of the
Mayor of the city. A person who has not personally been subjected to
discrimination may also file a complaint. Any person (citizen, applicant, or
employee) who believes he or she has been adversely affected by an act or
decision by the city, and that such act or decision was based on handicapped
status, shall have the right to process a complaint or grievance in accordance
with the following procedure.
   (A)   Step 1. An aggrieved person must submit a written statement to the
Mayor setting forth the nature of the discrimination alleged and facts upon
which the allegation is based.
   (B)   Step 2.
      (1)   The Mayor shall contact the complainant no later than 15 days after
receiving the written statement to establish an informal meeting with the
objective of resolving the matter informally. However, in no case shall the
informal meeting be conducted sooner than five days nor more than 45 days after
receiving the written statement.
      (2)   There shall be prepared a written documentary of the discussions at
the informal meeting, which shall be preserved in the records of the city.
   (C)   Step 3. Within 15 days of the informal meeting, if no decision has
been made by the Mayor or the decision of the Mayor does not satisfy the
complainant, he or she may request a hearing with the City Council, by
submitting a written request to the Mayor.
   (D)   Step 4.
      (1)   In thus discussing the grievance, the complainant may designate any
person of his choice to appear with him and participate in the discussion. The
City Council shall require the Mayor to participate in the discussion of the
grievance, when it is brought before the City Council. The City Council shall
issue a written decision on the matter within 15 days, and the decision shall
be the final procedure for the complainant at the local level.
      (2)   There shall be prepared a written documentary of the discussion at
the hearing, which shall be preserved in the records of the city.
(Ord. 12, 1984, passed 8-28-84)
CHAPTER 36: ETHICS CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
36.001   Title
   
36.002   Findings
   
36.003   Purposes and authority
   
36.004   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
36.015   Conflict of interest in general
   
36.016   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
36.017   Incompatible offices
   
36.018   Withdrawal from participation
   
36.019   Receipt of gifts
   
36.020   Use of city property, equipment, and personnel
   
36.021   Representation of interests before city government
   
36.022   Misuse of confidential information
   
36.023   Political solicitation
   
36.024   Patronage
   
36.025   Outside employment
   
36.026   Post-employment restriction
   
36.027   Honoraria
   
36.028   Endorsements
   
36.029   Complicity with or knowledge of other’s violations
   
36.030   Falsely impugning reputation
   
36.031   Meeting attendance
   
36.032   Social media
Financial Disclosure
   
36.045   Who must file
   
36.046   When to file statements; amended statements
   
36.047   Form of the statement of financial interests
   
36.048   Control and maintenance of the statements of financial interests
   
36.049   Contents of the financial interests statement
   
36.050   Noncompliance with filing requirement
Nepotism
   
36.065   Nepotism prohibited
Enforcement
   
36.080   Board of Ethics created
   
36.081   Alternate members
   
36.082   Facilities and staff
   
36.083   Powers and duties of the Board of Ethics
   
36.084   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
36.085   Notice of hearings
   
36.086   Hearing procedure
   
36.087   Appeals
   
36.088   Limitation of actions
   
36.089   Advisory opinions
   
36.090   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
 
   
36.999   Penalty
§ 36.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of St. Matthews
Code of Ethics”.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
§ 36.002 FINDINGS.
   The City Council of the City of St. Matthews finds and declares that:
   (A)   Public office and employment with the city are public trust;
   (B)   The vitality and stability of the government of this city depends upon
the public’s confidence in the integrity of its elected and appointed officers
and employees. Whenever the public perceives a conflict between the private
interests and public duties of a city officer or employee, that confidence is
imperiled; and
   (C)   The government of this city has a duty to provide its citizens with
standards by which they may determine whether public duties are being
faithfully performed, and to make its officers and employees aware of the
standards which the citizenry rightfully expects them to comply with while
conducting their public duties.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
§ 36.003 PURPOSES AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of the city shall be clearly established, uniform in their
application, and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees of the
city with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest
which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS 65.003 as enacted by the 1994 Kentucky General Assembly.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.003.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
§ 36.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “BOARD OF ETHICS.” The City of St Matthews Board of Ethics which is created
and vested by this chapter with the responsibility of enforcing the
requirements of the city’s code of ethics.
   “BUSINESS.” Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation, or any legal entity through which business is conducted for
profit.
   “CANDIDATE.” Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city
office. An individual is a “CANDIDATE” when the individual files a notification
and declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration
of intent to be a write-in candidate with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State.
   “CITY.” The City of St. Matthews, Kentucky.
   “CITY AGENCY.” Any board, commission, authority, nonstock corporation, or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by this city.
   “CITY BUSINESS.” Any discussion of specific city issues that go beyond
general information.
   “CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.” Information obtained in the course of holding
public office or employment, or as a contractor to the city, which is not
available to members of the public and which the officer or employee is not
authorized to disclose, except to designated individuals or bodies, including
written and non-written information. When such information is also available
through channels open to the public, officers and employees are not prohibited
from disclosing the availability of those channels.
   “CONSULTANT.” An independent contractor or professional person, or entity
engaged by the city or advising a city officer, and in a position to influence
a city decision or action or have access to confidential information.
   “CUSTOMER or CLIENT.” Any person or entity to which a person or entity has
supplied goods or services during the previous twenty-four (24) months, having
a total value greater than one thousand dollars ($1,000). Any person or entity
to which an officer or employee’s outside employer or business has supplied
goods or services during the previous twenty-four (24) months, having a total
value greater than one thousand dollars ($1,000), but only if the officer or
employee knows or has reason to know the outside employer or business supplied
the goods or services.
   “DOMESTIC PARTNER.” An adult, unrelated by blood, with which an unmarried or
separated officer or employee has an exclusive committed relationship,
maintains a mutual residence, and shares basic living expenses.
   “EMPLOYEE.” Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city. The term “EMPLOYEE”
shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of their employees.
   “FAMILY-MEMBER." A spouse, domestic partner, parent, child, step-child,
brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,
grandparent or grandchild.
   “FINANCIAL BENEFIT.” Any money, service, license, permit, contract,
authorization, loan, discount, travel, entertainment, hospitality, gratuity, or
any promise of any of these, or anything else of value. This term does not
include campaign contributions authorized by law.
   “FINANCIAL INTEREST.” A relationship to something that a direct or indirect
financial benefit has been, will be, or might be received because of it.
   “HOUSEHOLD.” Anyone whose primary residence is in the officer’s or
employee’s home, including nonrelatives who are not rent payers or staff.
   “IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER.” A spouse, domestic partner, an unemancipated
child, residing in the officer’s or employee's household, or a person claimed
by the officer or employee, or the officer's or employee's spouse, as a
dependent for tax purposes.
   “OFFICER.” Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor.
      (2)   A City Council member.
      (3)   The City Clerk.
      (4)   The City Treasurer.
      (5)   Police Chief
      (6)   Any person who occupies a nonelected office created under KRS
83A.080.
      (7)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency by the city.
   “OFFICIAL ACT.” Any legislative, administrative, appointive, or
discretionary act of any public official or employee of the city or any agency,
board, committee, or commission thereof.
   “PERSONAL BENEFIT.” Benefits other than those that are directly financially
advantageous. Those include financial benefits to immediate family members,
business associates, as well as non-financial benefits to these people and to
oneself, including such things as reputation and the success of one’s career.
   “PERSONAL INTEREST.” A relationship to something such that a personal
benefit has been, will be, or might be obtained by certain action of inaction
with respect to it.
   “SOCIAL MEDIA.” Content created by individuals, using the internet. Examples
of social media include Facebook, blogs, Instagram, RSS, YouTube, Second Life,
Twitter, LinkedIn, and Flickr.
   “SUBORDINATE.” Another official or employee over whose activities an
official or employee has direction, supervision, or control.
   “SUBSTANTIAL DEBTOR OR CREDITOR.” Is any person or business owed more than
ten thousand dollars ($10,000), except for debts arising from the purchase of a
primary residence or the purchase of consumer goods which are bought or used
primarily for person, family, or household purposes.
   “TRANSACTION.” Any matter, including but not limited to, contracts, work or
business with the city, the sale or purchase of real estate by the city, and
any request for zoning amendments, variances, or special permits pending before
the city, upon which a public officer or employee performs an official act or
action.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 36.015 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN GENERAL.
   Every officer and employee of the city and every city agency shall comply
with the following standards of conduct:
   (A)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of any officer
or employee, shall have an interest in a business or engage in any business,
transaction, or activity, which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of the officer's or employee's public duties,
   (B)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted (or unsolicited)
privileges or advantages for himself, herself or others.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or refrain from taking
any discretionary action, or agree to take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action, or induce or attempt to induce any other officer or
employee to take or refrain from taking any discretionary action, on any matter
before the city in order to obtain a financial benefit for any of the
following:
      (1)   The officer or employee;
      (2)   A family member;
      (3)   An outside employer;
      (4)   Any business in which the officer or employee, or any family member
has a financial interest, including but not limited to:
         (a)   An outside employer or business of his or hers, or of his or her
family member, or someone who works for such outside employer or busines1s;
         (b)   A customer or client; or
         (c)   A substantial debtor or creditor of his or hers, or of his or
her family member.
      (5)   Any business with which the officer or employee or any family
member is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or
professional relationship.
      (6)   A person or entity from whom the officer or employee has received
an election campaign contribution of a total of more than $200 during the past
election cycle (this amount includes contributions from a person’s immediate
family or business as well as contributions from an entity’s owners, directors,
or officer, as well as contributions to the officer or employee’s party
committee or noncandidate political committee).
      (7)   A nongovernmental civic group, social charitable, or religious
organization of which he or she, or his or her immediate family member, is an
officer or director.
   (D)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
in this section if, by reason of the officer's or employee's participation,
vote, decision, action or inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the officer
or employee, a family member, an outside employer, or a business as defined in
§
36.04, as a member of any business, occupation, profession, or other group, to
any greater extent than any gain could reasonably be expected to accrue to any
other member of the business, occupation, profession, or other group.
   (E)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected
by his or her participation, vote, decision or other action taken within the
scope of his or her public duties shall disclose the precise nature and value
of the interest, in writing, to the governing body of the city or city agency
served by the officer or employee, and the disclosure shall be entered on the
official record of the proceedings of the governing body. The officer or
employee shall refrain from taking any action with respect to the matter that
is the subject of the disclosure.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
§ 36.016 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 61.252, no officer or employee of the city or any city
agency shall directly or through others undertake, execute, hold, or enjoy, in
whole or in part, any contract made, entered into, awarded, or granted by the
city or a city agency, except as follows:
      (1)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply to
contracts entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for the
city office, before an appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency
office, or before an employee was hired by the city or a city agency. However,
if any contract entered into by a city or city agency officer or employee
before he or she became a candidate, was appointed to office, or was hired as
an employee, is renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes the
appointed office, or is hired as an employee, the prohibition in division (A)
of this section shall apply to the renewal of the contract.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply if
the contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the
officer or employee is authorized to participate in establishing the contract
specifications, awarding the contract, or managing contract performance after
the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any of the authorities
set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or employee Shall have no
interest in the contract, unless the requirements set forth in division (A)(3)
of this section are satisfied.
      (3)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply in
any case where the following requirements are satisfied:
         (a)   The specific nature of the nature of the contract transaction
and the nature of the officer’s or employee's interest in the contract are
publicly disclosed at a meeting of the governing body of the city or city
agency;
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed;
         (c)   A finding is made by the governing body of the city or city
agency that the contract with the officer or employee is in the best interests
of the public and the city or city agency because of price, limited supply, or
other specific reasons; and
         (d)   The finding is made part of the official record of the governing
body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor
and, upon conviction, the court may void any contract entered into in violation
of this section. Additionally, a violation of this section shall be grounds for
removal from office with the city in accordance with any applicable provisions
of state law and ordinances, rules or regulations of the city.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
§ 36.017 INCOMPATIBLE OFFICES.
   (A)   Pursuant to Section 165 of the Kentucky Constitution, no officer or
employee of the city may also be a state officer, deputy state officer or
member of the General Assembly or may fill more than one (1) municipal office
at the same time, whether in the same or a different city.
   (B)   Pursuant to KRS 61.080, no city officer may also hold a county office.
In addition, the statute also states that the following city and consolidated
local government officer are incompatible with any other public office:
      (1)   Member of the legislative body of cities of the first class;
      (2)   Mayor and member of the legislative council of a consolidated local
government; and
      (3)   Mayor and member of the legislative body in cities of the home rule
class.
   (C)   In addition to the Constitution and statutory provisions there are
common law incompatibilities that have been defined by the court. City officer
and employment positions are deemed incompatible when one office or position of
employment was inherently inconsistent in function with the other when there
arises an implication that the duties and responsibilities of both cannot be
performed at the same time with a necessary degree of impartiality and honesty.
   (D)   KRS 61.090 provides that the acceptance of an incompatible office
operates to vacate the first office.
(Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
§ 36.018 WITHDRAWAL FROM PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   An officer or employee must refrain from action on or discussing,
formally or informally, a matter before the city, if acting on the matter, or
failing to act on the matter, may personally or financially benefit any of the
persons or entities listed in § 36.15(C) above. Such an officer or employee
should join the public if the withdrawal occurs at a public meeting or leave
the room if it is a legally conducted closed meeting (executive session) under
KRS 61.810 and KRS 61.815.
   (B)   Withdrawal at a meeting requires the public announcement, on the
records, of the reason for withdrawal.
   (C)   Ongoing conflict. An officer or employee whose outside employment or
other outside activity or relationship can reasonably be expected to require
more than sporadic withdrawal must resign or cease such outside employment or
activity. An officer or employee should not begin employment, an activity or
relationship that can reasonably be expected to require more than sporadic
withdrawal. If a prospective officer or employee is in such a situation, he or
she should not accept the position with the city.
   (D)   Request to withdraw: If an officer or appointed board member is
requested to withdraw from participation in a matter because he or she has a
conflict of interest, by:
      (1)   Another member;
      (2)   A party to the current member; or
      (3)   Anyone else who may be affected by a decision relating to this
matter, the member must decide whether to withdraw on the official record. If
them be decided not to withdraw, the challenging member(s) may file a complaint
with the Ethics Board.
(Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
§ 36.019 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city agency shall directly, or
indirectly through any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift
having a fair market value of more than one hundred dollars ($100), whether in
the form of money, service, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing or
promise, or any other form, under circumstances in which it could reasonably be
inferred that the gift was intended to influence, or could reasonably be
expected to influence the officer or employee is in the performance of his or
her public duties.
   (B)   Certain items are typically excluded from this provision. Examples of
these items include:
      (1)   Gifts received from relatives.
      (2)   Gifts accepted on behalf of the city and transferred to the city.
      (3)   Reasonable travel and travel-related expenses, cost of admission,
food and beverages, and entertainment furnished in connection with certain
specified public events, appearances, ceremonies, economic development
activities, or fact-finding trips related to official governmental business.
      (4)   Usual and customary loans made in the ordinary course of business.
      (5)   Awards, including certificates, plaques, and commemorative tokens
presented in recognition of public services.
      (6)   Informational, promotional, and educational items.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.020 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of or any
city time, funds, personnel, equipment, or other personal or real property for
the private use of any person, unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy.
   (B)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that such use is available to the general public.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.021 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall represent
any person or business, other than the city, in connection with any cause,
proceeding, application or other matter pending before the city or any city
agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an employee from representing
another employee or employees where the representation is within the context of
official labor union or similar representational responsibilities.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matters concerning his or her own interests.
   (D)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward
or other thing of value is promised to, given to, or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.022 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall intentionally
use or disclose information acquired in the course of his or her official
duties, if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further his or
her personal financial interest or that of another person or business.
Information shall be deemed confidential, if it is not subject to disclosure
pursuant to the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 to 61.884, at the time of
its use or disclosure.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.023 POLITICAL SOLICITATION.
   (A)   An officer, employee, or municipal candidate may not request, or
authorized anyone else to request, that any subordinate or potential future
subordinate participate, or not participate, in any political activity,
including the making of a campaign contribution.
   (B)   An officer, employee, or municipal candidate may not engage in any
political activity for the city, while on duty, or in uniform, using city
funds, supplies, vehicles, or facilities, in uniform, or during any period of
time during which he or she is normally expected perform services for the city,
for which compensation is paid.
(Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
§ 36.024 PATRONAGE.
   No officer or employee may promise an appointment or the use of his or her
influence to obtain an appointment to any position as a reward for any
political activity or contribution.
(Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
§ 36.025 OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   An officer or employee shall not accept any employment or enter any
contracts that result in a conflict of interest with his or her duties as an
officer or employee of the city.
   (B)   An employee of the city may be self-employed or may take occasional or
part-time jobs, if in the opinion of his or her supervisor and the mayor, there
is no conflict with working hours, the employee’s efficiency in his or her city
work or other interest of the city.
   (C)   Employee wishing to take off-duty employment shall have the written
approval of their supervisor and the mayor.
   (D)   Employees or officers holding management level position shall notify
the mayor prior to creating, contracting with, or being employed by any agency
or business firm other than the city for their written approval.
   (E)   City employment shall remain the first priority and if at any time the
outside employment interferes with an employee’s job requirements or
performance for the city, the employee shall be required to modify the
conditions of the outside employment or terminate either the off-duty
employment or his or her city employment.
(Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
§ 36.026 POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTION.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall appear or
practice before the city or any city agency with respect to any matter on which
the officer or employee personally worked while in the service of the city or
city agency for a period of one year after the termination of the officer's or
employee's service with the city or city agency.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall make,
participate in making or use his or her official position to influence a
decision involving the interests of a person with whom he or she is seeking,
negotiating, or securing an agreement concerning future employment.
   (C)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall disclose
or use, without appropriate authorization, any confidential information
acquired during his or her official duties.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.027 HONORARIA.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city agency shall accept any
compensation, honorarium or gift with a fair market value greater than one
hundred dollars ($100) in consideration of an appearance, speech or article
unless the appearance, speech or article is both related to the officer's or
employee's activities outside of municipal service and is unrelated to the
officer's or employee's service with the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency from receiving and retaining from the city or on behalf
of the city actual and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the
officer or employee in connection with an appearance, speech or article,
provided that the officer or employee can show by clear and convincing evidence
that the expenses were incurred or received on behalf of the city or city
agency and primarily for the benefit of the city or city agency and not
primarily for the benefit of the officer or employee or any other person.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.028 ENDORSEMENTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee in his or her official capacity may publicly
endorse products or services for his or her own personal or financial interest,
or for his or her family member's personal or financial interest.
   (B)   However, this does not prohibit an officer or employee from answering
inquiries by other governmental officials, consumer organizations, or product
information services regarding products or services.
(Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
§ 36.029 COMPLICITY WITH OR KNOWLEDGE OF OTHER'S VIOLATIONS.
   No officer of employee may, directly or indirectly, induce, encourage, or
aid anyone to violate any provision of this code. If an officer or employee
knows or has reasonable suspicion to believe that someone has violated this
code, he or she is required to report it to the Ethics Board pursuant to this
chapter.
(Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
§ 36.030 FALSELY IMPUGNING REPUTATION.
   No officer or employee may not falsely impugn the reputation of a city
resident, employee, or another officer of the city.
(Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
§ 36.031 MEETING ATTENDANCE.
   All elected city officers and members of city boards and commission are
expected to attend their meetings. It is a violation of this code to miss more
than one-third (1/3) of the meetings in a twelve (12) month period.
(Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
§ 36.032 SOCIAL MEDIA.
   (A)   City officials, including members of boards, commissions, etc. can
maintain a personal presence on social media. However, to be considered
personal, there can be no mention of their status as a city official. Any
mention of their status as a city official potentially changes the nature of
the page, requiring record keeping in accordance with the Kentucky Department
of Library and Archives retention schedule and subjecting the entire page to
open records requests.
   (B)   Elected city officials who want to interact with the community on
social media in their role as city official are required to maintain a separate
account City officials will notify the City Clerk of any official pages(s)
utilized. The city clerk will maintain an update list of official pages of city
officials.
   (C)   City officials shall conduct themselves professionally and as a
representative of the city.
   (D)   Elected city official pages shall clearly indicate that any content
posted or submitted for posting is subject to public disclosure. Additionally,
guidelines, if any, shall be posted conspicuously on the page.
   (E)   No comments shall be deleted unless in violation of posted guidelines.
Deleted comments shall be provided to the City Clerk and must be saved for one
year.
   (F)   City official shall not conduct city business through their social
media sites. If receiving a specific request from a citizen, the city official
shall state: “Thank you for your question. Please email me at (official e-mail
address) or contact me at (phone number). I look forward to speaking with you.”
   (G)   City employee are bound by the city's social media policies in the
City of St Matthews Employee Handbook.
   (H)   City official shall maintain an official e-mail address and shall
provide the email address to the City Clerk. This must be separate from their
personal email account.
   (I)   No city business shall occur through a personal email account.
   (J)   City officials shall retain emails according to the Kentucky
Department of Library and Archives schedule for email. City official shall
direct any record keeping questions to the City Clerk.
(Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 36.045 WHO MUST FILE.
   The following classes of officers and employees of the city and city
agencies shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the Board
of Ethics:
   (A)   Elected city officials;
   (B)   Candidates for elected city office;
   (C)   Officers and employees who hold policymaking positions, including
members of municipal boards, such as the Board of Ethics, boards of adjustment,
code enforcement boards, economic development boards and parks and recreation
boards; and
   (D)   Nonelected officers and employees of the city or any city agency whose
actual duties involve the negotiation, authorization, or approval of contracts,
leases, franchises, revocable consents, concessions, variances, special
permits, or licenses: the purchase, sale, rental, or lease of real property,
personal property, or services, or a contact for any of these and the obtaining
of grants of money of loans.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
§ 36.046 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this section
shall be filed with the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated as the custodian of its records by the Board of Ethics, no later
than thirty (30) days after the effective date of this chapter. All subsequent
statements of financial interest shall be filed no later than January 31 of
each year, provided that:
      (1)   An officer or employee newly appointed to fill an office or
position of employment with the city or a city agency shall file his or her
initial statement no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the
appointment; and
      (2)   A candidate for city office shall file his or her initial statement
no later than thirty (30) days after the date on which the person becomes a
candidate for elected city office.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board, the officer or
employee shall, no later than thirty (30) days after becoming aware of the
material change, file an amended statement with the Board.
   (D)   By June 15 of each year, the Ethics Board must review all annual
financial disclosure statements filed with it to determine whether any person
required to file such a statement has failed to file it, has filed a deficient
statement, or has filed a statement that reveals a possible or potential
violation of this code. If the Board of Ethics determines that an annual or
transactional disclosure statement is deficient or reveals a possible of
potential violation of this code, the Board of Ethics will notify the person in
writing of the deficiency or possible violation, and of the penalties for
failure to comply with this code.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
§ 36.047 FORM OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form
prescribed by the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated by
the Board of Ethics.
   (B)   The Ethics Board along with the City Clerk will annually review the
list of officials and employees required to file annual disclosure statements
to determine whether the lists are complete and accurate. By February 1 of each
year, the Ethics Board along with the City Clerk must create a list of the
names and officers, or positions, of all officials and employees and others
required to file annual disclosure statements pursuant to this chapter and
notify all such persons of this obligation to file an annual disclosure
statement.
   (C)   The Board, or the designated administrative official, shall deliver a
copy of the form to each officer and employee required to file the statement,
by first class mail or hand delivery, no later than January 1 of each year.
   (D)   The failure of the Board, or the designated administrative official,
to deliver a copy of the form to any officer or employee shall not relieve the
officer or employee of the obligation to file the statement.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
§ 36.048 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF THE STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics shall be the "official custodian" of the
statements of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance
of the statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests
shall be maintained by the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated by the Board of Ethics as the "custodian," as public documents,
available for public inspection immediately upon filing. Until changed by the
Board of Ethics, the City Clerk is hereby named the "designated administrative
official" and the "custodian" for all purposes under this chapter.
   (B)   A statement of financial interest shall be retained by the Board or
the designated administrative official for such periods as are prescribed by
the Kentucky Archives and Records Commission, or in default of such regulation,
for a period of two years.
      (1)   Upon the expiration of two years after a person ceases to be an
officer of employee of the city of a city agency, the Board shall cause to be
destroyed any statement of financial interest or copies of those statements
filed by the person.
      (2)   Upon the expiration of two years after any election at which a
candidate for elected city officer was not elected or nominated, the Board of
Ethics shall cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or
copies of those statement filed by the person.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
§ 36.049 CONTENTS OF THE FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number, and
home address of the filer;
      (2)   The title of the filer's office, office sought, or position of
employment;
      (3)   The occupation of the filer and the filer's spouse or domestic
partner;
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer and
the filer's immediate family members exceeding $5,000 during the preceding
calendar year, and the nature of the income (e.g, salary, commission,
dividends, retirement fund distribution, etc.), provided, however, the filer
may list for himself/herself and the filer's immediate family, as a single
item, dividends and interest on stocks and bonds listed and customarily sold or
traded on national or regional stock exchanges;
      (5)   The name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer or any member of the filer's immediate family had at any time
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 at fair market value
or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (6)   The name and address of any business located outside of the state,
if the business has engaged in any business transactions with the city during
the past three years, or which is anticipated to engage in any business
transactions with the city, in which the filer or any member of the filer's
immediate family had at any time during the preceding calendar year an interest
of $10,000 at fair market value or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (7)   A designation as commercial, residential, or rural, and the
location of all real property within the county, other than the filer's primary
residence, in which the filer or any member of the filer's immediate family had
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 or more;
      (8)   Each source by name and address of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of $200 or more from any single source, excluding
gifts received from family members, received by the filer or any member of the
filer's immediate family during the preceding calendar year, and excluding
gifts from sources which have not done any business with the city in the past
five years and is not reasonably expected to do business with the city in the
next three years;
      (9)   Each source by name and address of campaign contributions having an
aggregate fair market value of $200 or more from any single source, excluding
contributions received from family members, during the preceding calendar year.
      (10)   The name and address of any creditor owed more than $10,000,
except debts arising from the purchase of a primary residence or the purpose of
consumer goods which are bought or used primarily for personal, family or
household purposes.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of individual
clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income, nor to require
the listing under division (A)(5) or (6) of this section of stock or bond
ownership of stocks and bonds listed and customarily sold or traded on national
or regional stock exchanges where the company has not done business with the
city for the past five years and is not reasonably expected to do business with
the city in the next three years.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
§ 36.050 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics, or the designated administrative official, shall
notify by certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial
interests who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete
statement, or files a statement in a font other than that prescribed by the
Board. The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall
establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied, and
shall advise the person of the penalties for a violation.
   (B)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who fails or
refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice under
division (A) of this section within the time period established in the notice
shall be guilty of a civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed
by the Board in an amount not to exceed $25 per day, up to a maximum total
civil fine of $500. Any civil fine imposed by the Board under this section may
be recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the
offender fails or refuses to pay the penalty within a prescribed period of
time.
   (C)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial interests
which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally omits
required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
NEPOTISM
§ 36.065 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall advocate,
recommend or cause the:
      (1)   Employment;
      (2)   Appointment;
      (3)   Promotion;
      (4)   Transfer; or
      (5)   Advancement;
of a family member to an office or position of employment with the city or a
city agency.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall supervise or
manage the work of a family member.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall participate in any action relating to the
employment or discipline of a family member, except that this prohibition shall
not prevent an elected or appointed official from voting on or participating in
the development of a budget which includes compensation for a family member,
provided that the family member is included only as a member of a class of
persons or a group, and the family member benefits to no greater extent than
any other similarly situated member of the class or group.
   (D)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to
September 1, 1994, nor to seasonal, temporary, or part-time employment, or
where the employment relationship is approved in an open meeting by one more
than a majority of the City Commission/City Council.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20) Penalty, see §
36.999
ENFORCEMENT
§ 36.080 BOARD OF ETHICS CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board of Ethics which shall have the
authorities, duties, and responsibilities as set forth in this chapter to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics shall consist of not less than one nor more than
five members who shall be appointed by the Mayor of the city, subject to the
approval of the City Council. The initial members of the Board of Ethics shall
be appointed within 60 days of the effective date of this chapter. No member of
the Board of Ethics shall hold any elected or appointed office, whether paid or
unpaid, or any position of employment with the city or any city agency. The
members shall serve for a term of three years; except that when the Board
consists of more than one member, appointments shall be made for one, two or
three years as designated in the appointment so as to create staggered terms.
All terms shall expire on December 31 of the designated year. Each member of
the Board of Ethics shall have been a resident of the city for a least one year
prior to the date of the appointment and shall reside in the city throughout
the term in office. The members of the Board of Ethics shall be chosen by
virtue of their known and consistent reputation for integrity and their
knowledge of local government affairs. The members may be reappointed for any
number of consecutive terms.
   (C)   A member of the Board of Ethics may be removed by the executive
authority, subject to the approval of the City Council for misconduct,
inability, or willful neglect of duties. Before any member of the Board of
Ethics is removed from office under this section, the member shall be afforded
the opportunity for a hearing before the executive authority and the City
Council.
   (D)   Vacancies on the Board of Ethics shall be filled within 60 days by the
executive authority, subject to the approval of the City Council. If a vacancy
is not so filled within 60 days, the remaining members of the Board of Ethics
shall fill the vacancy. All vacancies shall be filled for the remainder of the
unexpired term.
   (E)   Members of the Board of Ethics shall serve without compensation,
unless otherwise approved by the City Council, but shall be reimbursed for all
necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
   (F)   The Board of Ethics shall, upon the initial appointment of its
members, and annually thereafter, elect a chairperson from among the
membership. Each January the Ethics Board will meet to elect a chair and a
vice-chair from among its regular members and set a plan for any obligations
for the year, including any annual reports, reviews of disclosure or any
training. A majority of the regular members may call a meeting of the Board.
The chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member of the
Board.
   (G)   Meeting of the Board of Ethics shall be held, as necessary, upon the
call of the chairperson or at the written request of a majority of the members.
   (H)   The presence of a majority of the members shall constitute a quorum
and the affirmative vote of a number of members equal to a quorum shall be
necessary for a try official action to be taken. Any member of the Board of
Ethics who has a conflict of interest with respect to any matter to be
considered by the Board shall disclose the nature of the conflict, shall
disqualify himself or herself from voting on the matter, and shall not be
counted for purposes of establishing a quorum.
   (I)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board of Ethics and
the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in
the minutes.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
§ 36.081 ALTERNATE MEMBERS.
   The executive authority of the city, with the approval of the City Council
may appoint two alternate members of the Board of Ethics who may be called upon
to serve when a regular member of the Board is unable to discharge his or her
duties. An alternate member shall be appointed for a term of one year.
Alternate members shall meet all qualifications and be subject to all of the
requirements of this chapter that apply to regular members.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
§ 36.082 FACILITIES AND STAFF.
   Within the limits of the funds appropriated by the City Council in the
annual budget, the city shall provide the Board of Ethics, either directly or
by contract or agreement, with the facilities, materials, supplies, and staff
needed for the conduct of its business.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
§ 36.083 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF ETHICS.
   The Board of Ethics shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To initiate on its own motion, receive and investigate complaints,
hold hearings and make findings of fact and determinations with regard to
alleged violations of the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   To issue orders in connection with its investigations and hearings
requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to the proceedings and to order testimony to be
taken by deposition before any individual designated by the Board who has the
power to administer oaths;
   (C)   To administer oaths and to issue orders requiring the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating to
an investigation or hearing being conducted by the Board to the extent allowed
by law;
   (D)   To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to the
executive authority of the city, the City Council, the governing body of any
city agency, the county attorney, or other appropriate person or body, as
necessary;
   (E)   To render advisory opinions to city and city agency officers and
employees regarding whether a given set of facts and circumstances would
constitute a violation of any provision of this chapter;
   (F)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all officers
and employees of the city and city agencies who are subject to its terms by
issuing appropriate orders and imposing penalties authorized by this chapter;
   (G)   To control and maintain all statements of financial interests that are
required to be filed by this chapter and to insure that the statements are
available for public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter and the Kentucky Open Records Act;
   (H)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business that may be required by the executive authority or City Council of the
city; and
   (I)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter, provided that the
rules, regulations, and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or Federal law.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
§ 36.084 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter, shall be submitted to the Board of Ethics, or the administrative
official designated by the Board of Ethics. All complaints shall be in writing,
signed by the complainant under oath, and shall meet any other requirements
established by the Board of Ethics. The Board of Ethics shall acknowledge
receipt of a complaint to the complainant within ten working days from the date
of receipt. The Board shall forward within ten working days to each officer or
employee of the city or city agency who is the subject of the complaint a copy
of the complaint and a general statement of the applicable provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Within 30 days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the Board of
Ethics shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations contained
in the complaint. The Board shall afford a person who is the subject of the
complaint an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the complaint. The
person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to appear and be
heard under oath, and to offer evidence in response to the allegations.
   (C)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Board of Ethics shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Board except:
      (1)   The Board may turn over to the Commonwealth's Attorney or County
Attorney evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings; and
      (2)   If the complainant or alleged violator publicly disclose the
existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Board may publicly confirm the
existence of the inquiry, and, at its discretion, make public any documents
which were issued to either party.
   (D)   The Board shall make a determination based on its preliminary inquiry
whether the complaint is within its jurisdiction and, if so, whether it alleges
a minimal factual bash to constitute a violation of this chapter. If the Board
concludes that the complaint is outside of its jurisdiction, frivolous or
without factual basis, the Board shall immediately terminate the inquiry,
reduce the conclusion to writing, and transmit a copy of its decision to the
complainant and to all officers or employees against whom the complaint was
filed.
   (E)   If the Board of Ethics concludes, based upon its preliminary inquiry,
that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations
sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Board shall notify the officer or employee who is the subject of the complaint
and may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances such as, lack of significant
economic advantage or gain by the officer or employee, lack of economic loss to
the city its taxpayers, or lack of significant impact on public confidence in
city government issue, in writing, a reprimand to the officer or employee
concerning the alleged violation and provide a copy of the reprimand to the
executive authority and governing body of the city or city agency.
      (2)   Initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation.
   (F)   Any person who knowingly files with the Board a false complaint
alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter by an officer or employee
of the city or any city agency shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (G)   The Board of Ethics may not investigate itself. If the Ethics Board
receives a complaint alleging that the Board of Ethics, or any member or staff
has violated any provision of this code, or any other law, the Board of Ethics
must promptly transmit to the legislative body a copy of the complaint.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
§ 36.085 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   If the Board of Ethics determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, the Board shall issue an order setting
the matter for a hearing within 30 days of the date the order is issued, unless
the alleged violator petitions for and the Board consents to a later date. The
order setting the matter for hearing, along with a copy of any pertinent
regulations of the Board relating to the hearing shall be sent to the alleged
violator within 24 hours of the time the order setting a hearing is issued.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
§ 36.086 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure and the Kentucky Rules of
Evidence shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Board of Ethics; however,
the hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in
accordance with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Board so as
to afford all parties the full range of due process rights required by the
nature of the proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator, or his
or her representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Board in connection with the
matter to be heard. The Board shall inform the alleged violator, or his or her
representative, of any exculpatory evidence of its possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a Board hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to call
and examine witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross-examine witnesses, to
submit evidence, and to be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have the
right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Board, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (E)   All hearings of the Board of Ethics shall be public, unless the
members vote to go into executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810.
   (F)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Ethics shall, as
soon as practicable, begin deliberations in executive session for the purpose
of reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether a
violation of this chapter has been proven. Within 30 days after completion of
the hearing, the Board shall issue a written report of its findings and
conclusions.
   (G)   If the Board concludes in its report that no violation of this chapter
has occurred is shall immediately send written notice of this determination to
the officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint and to the party
who files the complaint.
   (H)   If the Board concludes in its report that in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and convincing proof of a
violation of this chapter, the Board may:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation.
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the executive authority and governing body
of the city agency with which the violator serves.
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the executive authority and the governing
body that the violator be sanctioned as recommended by the Board, which may
include a recommendation for discipline or dismissal, or removal from office.
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $1,000.
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this chapter or state laws
to the County Attorney or Commonwealth's Attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
§ 36.087 APPEALS.
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the Board of Ethics may appeal the finding to the Circuit Court of
the county within 30 days after the date of the final action by the Board of
Ethics by filing a petition with the court against the Board. The Board shall
transmit to the Clerk of the Court all evidence considered by the Board at the
public hearing.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
§ 36.088 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one year after
the violation is discovered.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
§ 36.089 ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics may render advisory opinions concerning matters
under its jurisdiction, based upon real or hypothetical facts and
circumstances, upon its own initiative, or when requested by any officer or
employee of the city or a city agency who is covered by this chapter.
   (B)   An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions. The request for an advisory opinion
shall remain confidential unless confidentiality is waived, in writing, by the
requestor.
   (C)   The Board may adopt regulations, consistent with the Kentucky Open
Records Law, to establish criteria under which it will issue confidential
advisory opinions. All other advisory opinions shall be public documents,
except that before an advisory opinion is made public, it shall be modified so
that the identity of any person associated with the opinion shall not be
revealed.
   (D)   The confidentiality of an advisory opinion may be waived either:
      (1)   In writing by the person who requested the opinion; or
      (2)   By majority vote of the members of the Board, if a person makes or
purports to make public the substance or any portion of an advisory opinion
requested by or on behalf of the person. The Board may vote to make public the
advisory opinion request and related materials.
   (E)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be binding on the
Board in any subsequent proceeding concerning the facts and circumstances of
the particular case if no intervening facts or circumstances arise which would
change the opinion of the Board if they had existed at the time the opinion was
rendered. However, if any fact determined by the Board to be material was
omitted or misstated in the request for an opinion, the Board shall not be
bound by the opinion.
   (F)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be admissible in
the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil proceeding for violation of
this chapter for actions taken in reliance on that opinion.
   (G)   Advisory opinions will be indexed by the Ethics Board and maintained
on file, with unnecessary financial and person details redacted. Officers,
employees, and businesses should be notified about advisory opinions that may
directly affect their conduct.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
§ 36.090 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall be subject
to reprisal, or directly or indirectly use, or threaten to use, any official
authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage,
restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce, or discriminate against any
person who in good faith reports, discloses, divulges, or otherwise brings to
the attention of the Board of Ethics or any other agency or official of the
city or the Commonwealth any facts or information relative to an actual or
suspected violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting disciplinary or
punitive action if an officer or employee of the city or any city agency
discloses information which he or she knows:
      (1)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity;
      (2)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of the
Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 to 61.884; or
      (3)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
§ 36.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this chapter,
any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by the
Board of Ethics to have violated any provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to a civil fine imposed by the
Board of Ethics not to exceed $1,000, which may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails to pay the penalty
within a prescribed period of time.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or any agency who is found by the
Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall forfeit to
the city or the city agency an amount equal to the economic benefit or gain
which the officer or employee is determined by the Board to have realized as a
result of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be recovered by the
city in a civil action in the nature of debt, if the offender fails to pay the
amount of the forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board of Ethics that an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency is guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be
sufficient cause for removal, suspension, demotion, or other disciplinary
action by the executive authority of the city or city agency, or by any other
officer or agency having the power of removal or discipline. Any action to
remove or discipline any officer or employee for a violation of this chapter
shall be taken in accordance with all applicable ordinances and regulations of
the city and all applicable laws of the Commonwealth.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 20-07, passed 9-22-20)
CHAPTER 37: PUBLIC RECORDS POLICY
Section
General Provisions
   
37.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
37.15   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
37.16   Referral to proper custodian
   
37.17   Public records not immediately available
   
37.18   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
37.19   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
37.20   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
37.21   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
37.22   Format of copies
   
37.23   Fees for copies
   
37.24   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
37.25   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
37.26   Public records protected from disclosure
   
37.27   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "CITY." The city government of this city.
   "COMMERCIAL PURPOSE." The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its news
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   "CUSTODIAN." The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records. The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of
most of the public records of this city is the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   "MECHANICAL PROCESSING." Any operation or other procedure which is
transacted on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier,
computer, recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
   "MEDIA." The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
   "OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN." The chief administrative officer or any other officer
or employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care,
and keeping of public records, regardless of whether such records are in his
actual personal custody and control. The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall
be the Mayor.
   "PUBLIC AGENCY." The city governing body, and any other municipal
department, board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
council, or agency thereof, as all these are more specifically defined and set
forth in KRS 61.870(1).
   "PUBLIC RECORDS." All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation materials regardless of
physical form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the
possession of, or retained by a public agency. PUBLIC RECORDS shall not include
any records owned or maintained by or for a body referred to in KRS 61.870(1)
(h) that are not related to functions, activities, programs, or operations
funded by state or local authority nor any records that have been excluded by §
37.26 .
   "REASONABLE FEE or FEE." The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of and/or mailing public records which shall not exceed the actual cost
thereof and shall not include the cost of staff time required.
   "REQUEST." An oral petition by any person or, at the option of the
custodian, the completion of a written application that clearly states the
specific public record or records that are desired for inspection or
duplication.
   "SOFTWARE." The program code which makes a computer system function, but
does not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency's computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(Ord. 21-05, passed 7-27-21)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of request, KRS 61.870
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 37.15 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   As defined in §
37.01, and subject to the limitations set forth in §
37.22, a resident of the Commonwealth of Kentucky defined by KRS 61.870(10)
desiring to inspect or copy the public records of this city shall make a
request for inspection by email to the City Clerk, at the office of the City
Clerk during regular office hours, except during legal holidays, or send Form
OAG-01 "Request to Inspect Public Record" to the City Clerk at the city's
address. Form OAG- 01 is available on the city website along with this chapter.
The official custodian, or the custodian acting under the authority of the
official custodian, may require Form OAG-01 with the applicant's name printed
legibly on the application. Form OAG-01 to inspect public records may be
presented by hand delivery, mail or email.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person's request is in compliance
with the Open Records Law and the requested records are immediately available,
the custodian shall deliver the records for inspection. Suitable facilities
shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk for the inspection. No
person shall remove original copies of public records from the offices of any
public agency without the written permission of the official custodian of the
record.
   (C)   The applicant shall have the right to make abstracts of the public
records and to obtain copies of all written public records. When copies are
requested, the custodian may require a written request and advance payment of
the prescribed fee as defined in §
37.01.
(Ord. 21-05, passed 7-27-21)
Statutory reference:
   Public records request, KRS 61.872(1), 61.872(2), 61.874(1)
§ 37.16 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk does not have custody or control of the public record or
records requested, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant and shall furnish
the name and location of the official custodian of the agency's public records.
(Ord. 21-05, passed 7-27-21)
Statutory reference:
   Referral to proper custodian, KRS 61.872(4)
§ 37.17 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays) from receipt of Form OAG-1, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on
which the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(Ord. 21-05, passed 7-27-21)
Statutory reference:
   Public records not available, KRS 61.872(4)
§ 37.18 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(Ord. 21-05, passed 7-27-21)
Statutory reference:
   Unreasonable requests, KRS 61.872(5)
§ 37.19 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and
legal holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
five-day period of its decision.
   Any agency response denying, in whole or in part, inspection of any record
shall include a statement of the specific exception authorizing the withholding
of the record and a brief explanation of how the exception applies to the
record withheld. The response shall be issued by the official custodian or
under his authority and shall constitute final agency action.
(Ord. 21-05, passed 7-27-21)
Statutory reference:
   Time limitation, KRS 61.880
§ 37.20 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
(Ord. 21-05, passed 7-27-21)
§ 37.21 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or her or
in which he or she is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate
identification, subject to the provisions of §
37.16 of these rules and regulations.
(Ord. 21-05, passed 7-27-21)
Statutory reference:
   Particular individual's records, KRS 61.884
§ 37.22 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of § 37.26. When copies are requested, the
custodian may require a written request and advance payment of the prescribed
fee, including postage where appropriate. If the applicant desires copies of
public records other than written records, the custodian of the records shall
duplicate the records or permit the applicant to duplicate the records;
however, the custodian shall ensure that such duplication will not damage or
alter the original records.
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than 8.5 inches x 11 inches in at least one color on white paper, or for
electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard Code for
Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and this format
conforms to the requestor's requirements, the public record may be provided in
this alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(Ord. 21-05, passed 7-27-21)
Statutory reference:
   Format, KRS 61.874(1)-(3)
§ 37.23 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   The public agency may prescribe a reasonable fee for making copies of
nonexempt public records requested for use for noncommercial purposes which
shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of the
media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but not
including the cost of staff required. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request
of an individual or a group, the public agency may at its discretion provide
the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs
incurred.
   (B)   (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) of this section may be
based on one or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing, and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records;
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase, or other
acquisition of the public records.
(Ord. 21-05, passed 7-27-21)
Statutory reference:
   Fees, KRS 61.874(3), (4)
§ 37.24 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
37.23;
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(Ord. 21-05, passed 7-27-21)
Statutory reference:
   Misstatement of purpose, KRS 61.874(5)
§ 37.25 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license, or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
37.23.
(Ord. 21-05, passed 7-27-21)
Statutory reference:
   Electronic access to records, KRS 61.874(6)
§ 37.26 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except as provided in KRS
61.878(1) that no court shall authorize the inspection by any party of any
materials pertaining to civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the
rules of civil procedure governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy.
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute.
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by
an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records.
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS
Ch. 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records; unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans; or appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (b)
above, shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
directed by statute.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business'
or industry's interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(3) above.
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency's internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods.
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision.
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again.
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action. The exemptions provided by this division
shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the
exercise of rights granted by this chapter.
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency.
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended.
      (11)   All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation.
      (12)   Public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly.
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Counter-terrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include but not be limited to information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage and gas systems;
            7.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division: detailed drawings, schematics,
maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and operating,
utility or security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied, leased
or maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, "TERRORIST ACT" means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (a)6.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division, that public agency
shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS
61.880(1), to the executive director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law.
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapter 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination mat the contract will not be resolicited.
      (16)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person. In addition, if any public record contains material which
is not excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
37.18.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge,
or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or
anyone eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including
preliminary and other supporting documentation, that relates to him or her.
Such records shall include, but not be limited to work plans, job performance,
demotions, evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation,
transfers, layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and preliminary
and other supporting documentation. A city employee, applicant, or eligible
shall not have the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents
relating to ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by any agency.
(Ord. 21-05, passed 7-27-21)
Statutory reference:
   Exemptions to providing public records, see KRS 61.878
§ 37.27 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the Open
Records Law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
(Ord. 21-05, passed 7-27-21)
CHAPTER 38: CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
Section
   
38.01   Definitions
   
38.02   Creation; membership
   
38.03   Enforcement powers
   
38.04   Appointment of members; term of office; removal from office; oath;
compensation
   
38.05   Organization of Board; meetings; quorum
   
38.06   Conflict of interest
   
38.07   Powers of the Code Enforcement Board
   
38.08   Hearing Officer
   
38.09   Enforcement proceedings
   
38.10   Hearing; notice; final order
   
38.11   Presentation of cases
   
38.12   Appeals; final judgment
   
38.13   Ordinance fine schedule
   
38.14   Liens; fines; charges; fees
   
38.15   Lienholder notification system
   
38.16   Liens
   
38.17   Immediate action
§ 38.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “ABATEMENT COSTS.” A city’s necessary and reasonable costs for and
associated with clearing, preventing unauthorized entry to, demolishing all or
a portion of a structure or premises, or taking any other action with regard to
a structure or premises necessary to remedy a violation and to maintain and
preserve the public health, safety, and welfare in accordance with any city
ordinance.
   “CITATION.” The city’s official form notifying an owner or occupant of
ordinance violation(s).
   “CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.” An administrative body created and acting
under the authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act, KRS
65.8801 to 65.8839.
   “ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.” A city Enforcement Officer, city police officer, or
other public law enforcement officer with the authority to issue a citation.
   “FINAL ORDER.” Any order:
      (1)   Issued by the Code Enforcement Board in accordance with this
chapter;
      (2)   Issued by an assigned Hearing Officer in accordance with this
chapter;
      (3)   Created because a violator neither paid nor contested the citation
within seven days as provided in this chapter; or
      (4)   Created because a violator failed to appear at a hearing the
violator requested to contest the citation as provided in this chapter.
   “IMMINENT DANGER.” A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
   “ORDINANCE.” An official action of a local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and
shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by the city
legislative body which embodies all or part of an ordinance, or for any city
which has in place an interlocal cooperation agreement to perform and enforce
the duties of a Code Enforcement Board.
   “OWNER.” A person, association, corporation, partnership, or other legal
entity having a legal or equitable title in real property.
   “OCCUPANT.” A person who is living in, or otherwise has custody and control
of a premises.
   “PREMISES.” A lot, plot or parcel of land, including any structures upon it.
(Ord. 24-04, passed 9-24-24)
§ 38.02 CREATION; MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby created pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to KRS 65.8839 within the
city, a Code Enforcement Board which shall be composed of no fewer than three
members, all of whom shall be residents of the city for a period of at least
one year prior to the creation of the Board and shall reside there throughout
the term in office and shall be at least 21 years of age.
(Ord. 24-04, passed 9-24-24)
§ 38.03 ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial
orders and impose civil fines as a method of enforcing city ordinances when a
violation of the ordinance has been classified as a civil offense.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Board shall not have the authority to enforce any
ordinance regulating conduct which would also, under any provision of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes, constitute a criminal offense, or a moving motor
vehicle offense.
(Ord. 24-04, passed 9-24-24)
§ 38.04 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; OATH;
COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be nominated for
appointment by the Mayor with confirmation by the City Council.
   (B)   The initial appointment to the Code Enforcement Board shall be as
follows:
      (1)   One-third of the membership or one-third of the membership and one
member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of one year;
      (2)   One-third of the membership or one-third of the membership and one
member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of two years; and
      (3)   One-third of the membership or one-third of the membership and one
member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of three years.
   (C)   All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of three years. A
member may be reappointed, subject to the approval of the City Council.
   (D)   The city may appoint two alternate members to serve on the Code
Enforcement Board in the absence of regular members. Alternate members shall
meet all the qualifications and shall be subject to all the requirements that
apply to regular members of the Code Enforcement Board.
   (E)   Any vacancy on the Board shall be filled by the city, subject to
approval of the City Council, within 60 days of the vacancy. If the vacancy is
not filled within that time period, the remaining Code Enforcement Board
members shall fill the vacancy. A vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of
the unexpired term.
   (F)   A Code Enforcement Board member may be removed from office by City
Council for misconduct, inefficiency, or willful neglect of duty. The City
Council shall submit a written statement to the member and the legislative body
setting forth the reasons for removal. The member so removed shall have the
right of appeal to the Circuit Court.
   (G)   All members of the Code Enforcement Board shall, before entering upon
the duties of their office, take the oath of office prescribed by Section 228
of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (H)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be reimbursed for actual
expenses and compensated in the amount of $25 per meeting hour.
   (I)   No member of the Code Enforcement Board shall hold any other elected
or nonelected office, paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the
city.
(Ord. 24-04, passed 9-24-24)
§ 38.05 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD; MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall annually elect a Chair from among its
members. The Chair shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member of
the Board. In the absence of the Chair, the remaining members of the Board
shall select a member to preside in place of and exercise the powers of the
Chair.
   (B)   Regular meetings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be held at the
City Hall located at 3940 Grandview Avenue, at the hour of 6:00 p.m. on the
first Tuesday day each month if there is business to be undertaken. Meetings
other than those regularly scheduled shall be special meetings or emergency
meetings held in accordance with the requirements of the Kentucky Open Meetings
Act.
   (C)   All meetings and hearings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be
public meetings held in accordance with the requirements of KRS 65.8815(5) and
the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (D)   The presence of at least a majority of the Board’s entire membership
shall constitute a quorum. The affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of
the Board shall be necessary for any official action to be taken.
   (5)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Code Enforcement
Board and the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Ord. 24-04, passed 9-24-24)
§ 38.06 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Any member of the Code Enforcement Board who has any direct or indirect
financial or personal interest in any matter to be decided shall disclose the
nature of the interest, disqualify himself or herself from voting on the matter
in which he or she has an interest, and shall not be counted for purposes of
establishing a quorum.
(Ord. 24-04, passed 9-24-24)
§ 38.07 POWERS OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.
   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To adopt rules and regulations to govern its operations and the
conduct of its hearings consistent with this chapter.
   (B)   To conduct hearings to determine if there has been a violation of an
ordinance over which it has jurisdiction.
   (C)   To subpoena alleged violators, witnesses, and evidence to its
hearings. Subpoenas issued by the Code Enforcement Board may be served by any
police officer.
   (D)   To take testimony under oath. The Chair shall have the authority to
administer oaths for the purpose of taking testimony.
   (E)   To make findings of fact and issue orders necessary to remedy any
violation of a city ordinance or code provision which the Board is authorized
to enforce.
   (F)   To impose civil fines, as authorized, on any person found to have
violated an ordinance over which the Board has jurisdiction.
   (G)   To assign a Hearing Officer to conduct hearings in accordance with
this chapter and for the appointed Hearing Officer to conduct any hearing with
all the powers set out in this chapter.
(Ord. 24-04, passed 9-24-24)
§ 38.08 HEARING OFFICER.
   (A)   Eligibility.
      (1)   The Code Enforcement Board may assign any of its members, including
the chair, to be the Hearing Officer.
      (2)   The Board may assign an individual who is not a member of the Board
to be a Hearing Officer if the individual does not hold any elected or
appointed office or position of employment with the city. The Hearing Officer
does not have to be a resident of the city. The Hearing Officer shall be
compensated at an hourly rate determined by the city.
      (3)   The Hearing Officer shall have all the powers to conduct the
hearing and gather and compel evidence set out for the Code Enforcement Board
in this chapter.
   (B)   Experience and training.
      (1)   A person assigned to be a Hearing Officer by the Code Enforcement
Board shall have experience or shall have received training in the code
enforcement process and basic procedural due process. At a minimum, the
experience or training shall include acquired knowledge regarding a party’s
fundamental due process right to:
         (a)   Be accompanied and advised by counsel at the hearing;
         (b)   Present evidence and witnesses on his or her behalf at the
hearing;
         (c)   Examine the evidence supporting the citation; and
         (d)   Confront and cross-examine the witnesses supporting the
citation.
      (2)   Before assigning a person as a Hearing Officer, the Code
Enforcement Board shall inquire as to that person’s experience or training
qualifying them to be a Hearing Officer.
   (C)   Hearing powers and procedures.
      (1)   A Hearing Officer may administer oaths to witnesses prior to their
testimony and subpoena alleged violators, witnesses, and evidence.
      (2)   Any hearing conducted by a Hearing Officer shall conform to the
procedural requirements in this chapter.
      (3)   The Hearing Officer may conduct the hearing and may draft proposed
findings of fact, but the Code Enforcement Board shall hear and rule on the
evidence and decide each case.
(Ord. 24-04, passed 9-24-24)
§ 38.09 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern, all enforcement proceedings before
the Code Enforcement Board or Hearing Officer:
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings shall only be initiated by the issuance of a
citation by an Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Except when immediate action is necessary pursuant to this chapter, if
an Enforcement Officer believes, based on his or her personal observation or
investigation, that a person has violated a city ordinance, he or she shall
issue a notice of violation allowing the alleged violator a specified period of
time to remedy the violation without incurring a fine. If the alleged violator
fails or refuses to remedy the violation within the time specified, the
Enforcement Officer is authorized to issue a citation.
   (C)   The Enforcement Officer shall issue the citation by one of the
following methods:
      (1)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
      (2)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person 18 years of age or
older who is on the premises, if the alleged violator is not on the premises at
the time the citation is issued; or
      (3)   Posting a copy of the citation in a conspicuous place on the
premises and mailing a copy of the citation by regular, first-class mail, or e-
mail to the owner of record of the property, if no one is on the premises at
the time the citation is issued.
   (D)   The citation issued by the Enforcement Officer shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (4)   The date and time the offense was committed/observed;
      (5)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (6)   The section of the code or the number of the ordinance violated;
      (7)   The name of the Enforcement Officer;
      (8)   The civil fine that may be imposed for the violation;
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (10)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine and
remedy the violation set forth in the citation or contest the citation within
the time allowed: the person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a
hearing before the Code Enforcement Board or Hearing Officer to contest the
citation; the determination that the violation was committed shall be final;
the citation as issued shall be deemed a final order determining that the
violation was committed and imposing the civil fine as set forth in the
citation; and the person shall be deemed to have waived the right to appeal the
final order to District Court.
   (E)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the Enforcement
Officer shall notify the Code Enforcement Board by delivering a copy of the
citation to the City Clerk.
   (F)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven days of the date of issuance by either paying the civil
fine and remedying the violation or requesting, in writing, a hearing to
contest the citation.
   (G)   If the person fails to respond to the citation within seven days, the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the
determination that a violation was committed shall be considered final. In this
event, the citation as issued shall be deemed a final order determining that
the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine as set forth in the
citation, and the person shall be deemed to have waived the right to appeal the
final order to District Court.
   (H)   Notice of the final order shall be delivered to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the delivery.
(Ord. 24-04, passed 9-24-24)
§ 38.10 HEARING; NOTICE; FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing has been requested, the Code Enforcement Board or city
administrative staff shall schedule a hearing.
   (B)   Not less than seven days before the date of the hearing, the Code
Enforcement Board shall notify the requester of the date, time, and place of
the hearing. The notice may be given by regular first-class mail; certified
mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; e-mail; or by leaving the
notice at the person’s usual place of residence with any individual residing
therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of
the notice.
   (C)   Any person requesting a hearing who fails to appear at the time and
place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing
to contest the citation, and the determination that a violation was committed
shall be final. In this event, the citation as issued shall be deemed a final
order determining the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine set
forth in the citation, and the alleged violator shall be deemed to have waived
the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
   (D)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the notice.
   (E)   All testimony at the hearing shall be taken under oath and recorded.
Testimony shall be taken from the Enforcement Officer, the alleged violator,
and any witnesses to the violation offered by the Enforcement Officer or
alleged violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but fundamental due
process shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (F)   The Code Enforcement Board, based on the evidence, shall determine
whether a violation was committed. If it is determined that no violation was
committed, an order dismissing the citation shall be entered. If it is
determined that a violation was committed, an order may be issued upholding the
citation. The Code Enforcement Board may impose a fine up to the maximum
authorized by ordinance or require the offender to remedy a continuing
violation to avoid a fine, or both.
   (G)   Every final order following a hearing shall be reduced to writing,
which shall include the findings and conclusions reached and the date the order
was issued. A copy shall be furnished to the person named in the citation.
   (H)   If the person named in the citation is not present when the final
order is issued, the order shall be delivered by regular first-class mail;
certified mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the
notice at the person’s usual place of residence with any individual residing
therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of
the notice.
(Ord. 24-04, passed 9-24-24)
§ 38.11 PRESENTATION OF CASES.
   Each case before the Code Enforcement Board shall be presented by an
attorney selected by the city, an Enforcement Officer for the city, or by a
member of the city’s administrative staff. The City Attorney may either be
counsel to the Code Enforcement Board or Hearing Officer or may present cases
before the Board but shall in no case serve in both capacities.
(Ord. 24-04, passed 9-24-24)
§ 38.12 APPEALS; FINAL JUDGMENT.
   (A)   An appeal from a final order of a Code Enforcement Board or assigned
Hearing Officer following a hearing conducted pursuant to this chapter may be
made to the Jefferson County District Court within 30 days of the date the
order is issued. The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint and
a copy of the final order in the same manner as any civil action under the
Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   If no appeal from a final order following a hearing is filed within
the time period set in division (A) above, the order shall be deemed final for
all purposes.
(Ord. 24-04, passed 9-24-24)
§ 38.13 ORDINANCE FINE SCHEDULE.
   Violations of any ordinance enforced by the city Enforcement Officer, Code
Enforcement Board or an assigned Hearing Officer may be subject to the penalty
section of the individual ordinance violated. In the alternative, the city
Enforcement Officer, Code Enforcement Board or any assigned Hearing Officer may
in his or her discretion, use the following schedule of standard civil fines.
Each day during which any such offence is committed, continued, or allowed
shall be a separate offense. The following maximum penalties may be imposed at
the discretion of the Code Enforcement Board or Hearing Officer:
Violation 1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Violation         1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Animals           $100        $200        $300
Building Code     $500        $750        $1,000
Nuisance          $75         $150        $250
Licensing         $500        $750        $1,000
Signage           $50         $100        $700
Littering         $50         $100        $200
Parking           $50         $100        $200
Streets/Sidewalks $50         $100        $200
 
(Ord. 24-04, passed 9-24-24)
§ 38.14 LIENS, FINES, CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   The Enforcement Officer or Code Enforcement Board, upon finding there
is a violation of the city ordinances, is also authorized to require
compliance, in addition to the fines set out in this chapter and find that each
day of non-compliance after the finding will constitute the imposition of
another fine for each day’s violation, up to the following maximums. On first
violation, the maximum total fine for each person cited is $1,000. On second
violation that occurs within a 12-month period, the maximum total fine for each
person cited is $3,000. On third violation that occurs within a 12-month period
the maximum total fine for each person cited is $5,000.
   (B)   The city shall possess a lien on property owned by the person found by
a non-appealable final order of the Code Enforcement Officer, Board, Hearing
Officer, or by a final judgment of the court, to have committed a violation of
a city ordinance. The lien shall be for all civil fines assessed for the
violation and for all charges and fees incurred by the city in connection with
the enforcement of the ordinance, including abatement costs. An affidavit of
the Enforcement Officer shall constitute prima facie evidence of the amount of
the lien and regularity of the proceedings pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839.
   (C)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the Jefferson County
Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording
and shall bear interest until paid. The lien shall continue for ten years
following the date of the non-appealable final order or final, court judgment.
   (D)   Subject to this chapter, the lien shall take precedence over all other
liens, except state, county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced
by judicial proceedings, including a foreclosure action.
   (E)   In addition to the remedy prescribed herein, the person found to have
committed the violation shall be personally responsible for all fines assessed
for the violation and for all charges and fees incurred by the city in
connection with the enforcement of the ordinance. The city may bring a civil
action against the person and shall have the same remedies as provided for the
recovery of a debt.
(Ord. 24-04, passed 9-24-24)
§ 38.15 LIENHOLDER NOTIFICATION SYSTEM.
   The city shall obtain and maintain priority over previously filed liens, as
provided in this chapter, in accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   Individuals and entities, including but not limited to lienholders,
may register with the city to receive electronic notification of final orders
entered pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   In order to receive the notification, the registrant shall submit the
following information to the Code Enforcement Officer:
      (1)   Name;
      (2)   Mailing address;
      (3)   Phone number; and
      (4)   Electronic mailing address.
   (C)   The city shall maintain the records created under this section for ten
years following their issuance.
(Ord. 24-04, passed 9-24-24)
§ 38.16 LIENS.
   (A)   A lienholder of record who has registered pursuant to this chapter
may, within 45 days from the date of issuance of notification under this
chapter:
      (1)   Correct the violation, if it has not already been abated; or
      (2)   Pay all civil fines assessed for the violation, and all charges and
fees incurred by the city in connection with enforcement of the ordinance,
including abatement costs.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action if necessary, under this chapter.
   (C)   The lien provided by this chapter shall not take precedence over
previously recorded liens if:
      (1)   The city failed to comply with the requirements of this chapter for
notification of the final order; or
      (2)   A prior lienholder complied with the registration requirement in
this chapter.
   (D)   A lien that does not take precedence over previously recorded liens
under this chapter shall, if the final order remains partially unsatisfied,
take precedence over all other subsequent liens except liens for state, county,
school board and city taxes.
   (E)   The city may record a lien before the 45-day period established in
this chapter. If the lien is fully satisfied prior to the expiration of the 45-
day period, the city shall release the lien in the County Clerk’s office where
the lien is recorded within 15 days of satisfaction.
   (F)   Failure of the city to comply with this chapter, or failure of a lien
to take precedence over previously filed liens as provided in this chapter,
shall not limit or restrict any other remedies the city has against the
property of the violator.
(Ord. 24-04, passed 9-24-24)
§ 38.17 IMMEDIATE ACTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the city from taking immediate action
to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is reason to believe that
the violation presents a serious threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of the violation
will be irreparable or irreversible.
(Ord. 24-04, passed 9-24-24)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.     WASTE COLLECTION
CHAPTER 50: WASTE COLLECTION
Section
   
50.01   Requirements of residents to properly prepare garbage for collection
   
50.02   (Reserved.)
   
50.03   Protection of recyclable solid waste materials
   
50.04   Restrictions on times for garbage and refuse collection
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 REQUIREMENTS OF RESIDENTS TO PROPERLY PREPARE GARBAGE FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   Waste material means ordinary garbage, paper, rag, excelsior, wrapping
and packaging material.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the occupant of residential, business,
commercial, or industrial premises to provide one or more containers for waste
material, and to deposit all waste material in a container. The container shall
be of a substantial construction, with tight fitting covers, and suitable for
safe handling, and maintained in good condition.
   (C)   Waste containers shall be kept covered at all times with a tight
fitting lid except when they are being filled or emptied. It shall be unlawful
for a person to remove the cover from a waste container without promptly
replacing same.
   (D)   No person shall throw, place, or deposit waste material in any street
or other public place, or on any public or private property, except in proper
waste containers. No person shall upset or turn over the contents of any waste
container without immediately replacing it.
   (E)   No person shall permit the premises occupied or used by him to become
and remain littered with waste material in such a manner as to constitute a
public nuisance.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to set out for curb-side collection, garbage,
yard waste, recycling, large items, limbs, or junk more than 24 hours in
advance of the normal collection date. Any carts, cans or containers must be
moved back from the curb to the principal structure or garage within 24 hours
after collection. Any garbage, yard waste, recycling, large items, limbs, junk,
or anything else set out, but which was not collected, or refused for
collection, must be removed from the curb and brought back to the residence
within 24 hours of the pickup for which it was set out for collection. The city
may grant additional time for items set out for "bagster" type collection, as
long as the resident can show the "bagster" was properly loaded, located
properly for pickup and the collection company has been timely notified to make
the pickup.
(Ord. 8, passed 5-26-64; Am. Ord. 19-05, passed 4-9-19)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.02 (RESERVED.)
§ 50.03 PROTECTION OF RECYCLABLE SOLID WASTE MATERIALS.
   (A)   Recyclable materials placed at a designated site, or on the edge of a
publicly dedicated right of way in a specifically designated container, for the
purpose of collecting newsprint, glass, aluminum containers, white office
paper, certain plastic containers, and other materials as may be designated by
the City Council as recyclable hereafter, will be collected by the authorized
agents of the city only.
   (B)   Placing recyclable materials in the designated containers, in the
specified location, shall be deemed to vest title to the materials in the city.
Nonrecyclable materials will not be collected and will not become the property
of the city.
   (C)   No person shall remove any recyclable materials from the designated
containers, or removed the container itself, without the consent of the city.
(Ord. 90-02, passed 3-13-90)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.04 RESTRICTIONS ON TIMES FOR GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to engage in the activity of garbage collection,
including dumpster type collection, within the city between the hours of 7:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on any day.
   (B)   As used herein, "GARBAGE COLLECTION" shall mean any of the following
activities:
      (1)   Emptying of garbage cans into a garbage collection truck;
      (2)   Loading, unloading, maneuvering, positioning, or emptying a
dumpster or similar type container;
      (3)   Using a garbage collection truck to compact garbage by any process.
   (C)   The registered owner of a garbage collection truck being used in
violation of this section shall be prima facie evidence of ownership of the
vehicle and of violation of this section by such owner.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to garbage collection where the site is
more than 300 feet, measured in a straight line, from the nearest residential
use property line.
(Ord. 93-08, passed 11-9-93)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of any provision of §
50.01 shall be guilty of a violation and shall be punishable by a fine of not
less than $10 nor more than $50 for each offense.
(Ord. 8, passed 5-26-64)
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §
50.04 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for
each offense and each collection container so collected in violation of §
50.04 shall be deemed a separate offense, and each day on which an offense
occurs shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense for which a separate
fine may be levied.
      (2)   Any violation of §
50.04 shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in an amount equal to the
minimum fine prescribed by division (C)(1) above. The civil penalty may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender
does not pay the penalty within 20 days after the offender has been cited for
the violation. The civil penalty may be used as an alternative to or in
conjunction with the criminal penalties authorized in division (C)(1) above.
(Ord. 93-08, passed 11-9-93)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.     GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.     OPERATION OF VEHICLES
         
72.     EQUIPMENT
         
73.     BICYCLES; MOTORCYCLES; GOLF CARTS AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
         
74.     PEDESTRIANS
         
75.     COMMON CARRIERS
         
76.     (RESERVED)
         
77.     PARKING METERS
         
78.     PARKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Right of action unabridged
   
70.03   Traffic regulated and restricted; driver to obey control devices
   
70.04   Authority to install yield right-of-way signs
   
70.05   Traffic control signs, uniform standards to be prescribed; signs to
conform
   
70.06   Permitting unlawful operation of a motor vehicle prohibited
   
70.07   Enforcement of traffic regulations on off-street parking facilities
offered for public use
Enforcement
   
70.10   Enforcement
   
70.11   Authority of police to direct traffic
   
70.12   Complying with traffic officer's signal
   
70.13   Director of works to erect signs
Traffic-Control Devices; Lights
   
70.20   Limitation of colored lights used in traffic control signals
   
70.21   Installation of flasher lights near schools; reduced speed limit
   
70.22   Flashing lights prohibited near highway
   
70.23   Interference with signals
   
70.24   Unauthorized signals, markings
   
70.25   Defective devices
Parking Lots
   
70.30   Declaration of policy concerning parking lots and automobile storage
garages
   
70.31   Posting of notice of hours facility is open; attendant required;
exceptions
   
70.32   Liability of parking lot or storage garage operator
   
70.33   Checking of personal articles other than automobile equipment; posting
of notice
   
70.34   Contracts limiting liability are void
   
70.35   Removal of vehicle by owner of private parking lot; signs
Abandoned Vehicles
   
70.40   Abandoned vehicles; removal; disposition
Parades
   
70.50   Permits for parades, assemblages, processions
Vehicle Radios
   
70.60   Vehicle radios; permits required
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this traffic code the following words and phrases shall
have the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   "ABANDONED VEHICLE." Any automobile which is left upon the right- of-way of
a state highway for 3 consecutive days, whether or not it is fit for future
use.
(KRS 189.751 (1))
   "ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE." Any motor vehicle for off-road use, which is 50
inches or less in width; has a dry weight of 600 pounds or less; travels on
three or more low pressure tires; is designed for operator use only with no
passengers; and has a seat or a saddle designed to be straddled by the
operator, and handle bars for steering control.
   "AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE." Any vehicle within the following
classification.
      (1)   "EMERGENCY VEHICLE." Any vehicle used for emergency purposes by
         (a)   The Department of Kentucky State Police;
         (b)   A public police department;
         (c)   The Department of Corrections;
         (d)   A sheriff's office;
         (e)   A rescue squad;
         (f)   An emergency management agency if it is a publicly owned
vehicle;
         (g)   A licensed ambulance service, mobile integrated healthcare
program, or medical first-response provider licensed by the Kentucky Board of
Emergency Medical Services, for any vehicle used to respond to emergencies or
to transport a patient with a critical medical condition;
         (h)   Any vehicle commandeered by a police officer;
         (i)   Any vehicle vehicle with the emergency lights required under KRS
189.920 used by a paid or volunteer fireman or paid or volunteer ambulance
personnel, or a paid or local emergency management director while responding to
an emergency or to a location where an emergency vehicle is on emergency call;
         (j)   An elected coroner granted permission to equip a publicly or
privately owned motor vehicle with lights and siren pursuant to KRS 189.920;
         (k)   A deputy coroner granted permission to equip a publicly or
privately owned motor vehicle with lights and siren pursuant to KRS 189.920;
         (l)   Any vehicle used by an organ procurement organization while
transporting a human organ or tissue for the purpose of organ recovery or
transplantation in an emergency situation involving an imminent health risk; or
         (m)   A game warden of the Kentucky Department of Fish and Wildlife
Resources.
      (2)   "PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE." Public utility repair vehicle; wreckers;
state, county, or municipal service vehicles and equipment; highway equipment
which performs work that requires stopping and standing or moving at slow
speeds within the traveled portions of highways; and vehicles which are
escorting wide-load or slow-moving trailers or trucks. (KRS 189.910)
   "BOAT." A rowboat, motorboat, or houseboat.
   "BUSINESS DISTRICT." The territory contiguous to and including a highway if,
within 600 feet along the highway, there are buildings in use for business or
industrial purposes that occupy 300 feet of frontage on one side or 300 feet
collectively on both sides of the highway. (KRS 189.390 (1)(a))
   "CENTER OF INTERSECTION." The point of intersection of the center line of
the intersecting streets. Business and central traffic district shall include
all commercially zoned area within the city limits.
   "COMMERCIAL DRIVER'S LICENSE." A license issued pursuant to KRS Chapter
281A.
   "COMMERCIAL VEHICLE." A motor vehicle designed or used for the
transportation of merchandise, wares, or other material.
   "CROSSWALK."
      (1)   That part of the roadway at an intersection within the connections
of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the highway measured
from the curbs or in the absence of curbs, from the edges of the traversable
roadway; or
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   “CRUISE.” To drive or operate a taxicab or other vehicle for hire at a rate
of speed of less than ten miles per hour for the primary purpose and intention
of obtaining or picking up a passenger.
   “CURB.” The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   “DEPARTMENT.” The Department of Highways. (KRS 189.010(1))
   “DRIVER’S LICENSE.” An operator’s license issued pursuant to KRS 186.412.
(KRS 189.011)
   “HIGHWAY.” Any public road, street, avenue, alley or boulevard, bridge,
viaduct or trestle and the approaches to them and includes private residential
roads and parking lots covered by an agreement under KRS 61.362, off-street
parking facilities offered for public use, whether publicly or privately owned,
except for hire parking facilities listed in KRS 189.700. (KRS 189.010(3))
   “INTERSECTION.”
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two highways which join one another, but not necessarily continue,
at approximately right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon
different highways joining at any other angle may come into conflict;
      (2) Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. If the intersecting
highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, every crossing of 2
roadways of the highways shall be regarded as a separate intersection. The
junction of a private alley with a public street or highway shall not
constitute an intersection.
   “LOADING ZONE.” The roadway space adjacent to the curb reserved exclusively
for the loading and unloading by vehicles of passengers and property.
   “MANUFACTURED HOME” has the same meaning as defined in KRS 186.650.
   “MOPED.” A motorized bicycle whose frame design may include one or more
horizontal crossbars supporting a fuel tank so long as it also has pedals, or a
motorized bicycle with a step through type frame which may or may not have
pedals rated no more than two brake horsepower, a cylinder capacity not
exceeding 50 cubic centimeters, an automatic transmission not requiring
clutching or shifting by the operator after the drive system is engaged, and
capable of a maximum speed of not more than 30 miles per hour.
(KRS 189.285)
   "MOTOR BUS." Any motor vehicle designed primarily for the transportation of
passengers and having a seating capacity in excess of 9 passengers including
the driver.
(KRS 189.265)
   "MOTORCYCLE." Any motor driven vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use
of the operator and designed to travel on not more than 3 wheels in contact
with the ground, but excluding tractors and vehicles on which the operator and
passengers ride in a enclosed cab and excluding a moped.
(KRS 189.285)
   "MOTOR TRUCK." Any motor propelled vehicle designed for carrying freight or
merchandise. It shall not include self-propelled vehicles designed primarily
for passenger transportation, but equipped with frames, racks or bodies having
a load capacity of not exceeding 1,000 pounds.
(KRS 189.010 (6))
   "MOTOR VEHICLE." Any vehicle propelled by an internal combustion engine
capable of transporting persons or property, except a "MOPED" as defined
herein.
   "OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES." All signs, signals, marking, and devices
placed or erected by authority of a public body or official having
jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning, or dividing traffic.
(KRS 189.337)
   "OFF-ROAD VEHICLE." A motor vehicle capable of cross-county travel, without
the benefit of a road or trail. It does not include a farm vehicle, a vehicle
used for military or law enforcement purposes, a vehicle used in construction,
mining, or other industrial related purposes, aircraft, or any other vehicle
registered under state law.
(KRS 189.860)
   "ONE-WAY STREET." A street upon which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   "OPERATOR." The person in actual physical control of a vehicle.
(KRS 189.010 (7))
   "OWNER." The last registered owner.
   "PARK." (when applied to vehicles) To leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   "PEDESTRIAN." Any person afoot.
   "PLAY STREET." Any street or portion thereof so designated by the director
of works and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
debarred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   "PUBLIC WAY." The entire width between property lines of every way,
dedicated passway or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths
and foot paths.
   "REFLECTANCE." The ratio of the amount of total light, expressed in a
percentage, which is reflected outward by the product or material to the amount
of total light falling on the product or material.
   "RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT." The territory contiguous to and including a highway
not comprising a business district if the property on the highway for a
distance of 300 feet or more is improved with residences or residences and
buildings in use for business.
(KRS 189.390 (1) (b))
   "REVERSE TURN." To turn a vehicle upon any street in such a manner as to
proceed in the opposite direction.
   "RIGHT-OF-WAY." The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a
lawful manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under
such circumstances of direction, speed, and proximity as to give rise to danger
of collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
   "ROADWAY." That portion of any street, improved, designated or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway
includes 2 or more separate roadways, the term "ROADWAY" as used herein shall
refer to any roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
   "SAFETY ZONE." The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for
the exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
   "SECRETARY." The secretary of the department of transportation.
   "SEMITRAILER." A vehicle designed to be attached to, and having its front
end supported by, a motor truck or truck tractor, intended for the carrying of
freight or merchandise and having a load capacity of over 1,000 pounds.
(KRS 189.010 (12))
   "SHARP CURVE." A curve of not less than 30°.
(KRS 189.010 (14))
   "SIDE." That portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   "SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE." Includes farm machinery, including animal drawn
vehicles, highway construction and maintenance vehicles, and any other type of
vehicle except bicycles and electric low-speed scooters, capable of a rate of
speed no greater than 25 m.p.h.
(KRS 189.810 (1))
   "SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE EMBLEM." Consists of a fluorescent yellow- orange
triangle with a dark red reflective border, as specified in American Society of
Agricultural Engineers R276 or Society of Automotive Engineers J943 standards,
or consisting of reasonably similar reflective qualities as specified in the
standards.
(KRS 189.810 (2))
   "STATE POLICE." Any agency for the enforcement of the highway laws
established pursuant to law.
(KRS 189.010 (15))
   "STATE HIGHWAY." A highway or street maintained by the Kentucky Department
of Highways.
(KRS 189.390 (1) (c))
   "STEEP GRADE." A grade of exceeding 7%.
(KRS 189.010 (16))
   "STOPPING." (as applied to vehicles) To stop a vehicle longer than is
actually necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   "STREET." Every public way including alleys.
   "STREET LINE." A line separating a street from the lots abutting thereon.
   "SUNSCREENING MATERIAL." A product or material, including film, glazing, and
perforated sunscreening, which, when applied to the windshield or windows of a
motor vehicle, reduces the effects of the sun with respect to light reflectance
or transmittance.
(KRS 189.010(21))
   "TAXICAB." A public motor vehicle licensed as a taxicab, including vehicles
for hire, designated to carry 7 or less persons, except funeral cars and "drive
yourself" autos.
   "TRAFFIC." Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   "TRAILER." Any vehicle designed to be drawn by a motor truck or truck
tractor, but supported wholly upon its own wheels, intended for the carriage of
freight or merchandise, and having a load capacity of over 1,000 pounds.
(KRS 189.010 (17))
   "TRANSMITTANCE." The ratio of the amount of total light, expressed in a
percentage, which is allowed to pass through the products or material,
including glazing, to the amount of total light falling on the product or
material and the glazing.
(KRS 189.010(22))
   "TRUCK TRACTOR." Any motor propelled vehicle designed to draw and to support
the front end of a semitrailer. The semitrailer and the truck tractor shall be
considered to be one unit.
(KRS 189.010 (13))
   "UNOBSTRUCTED HIGHWAY." A straight, level, first class road upon which no
other vehicle is passing or attempting to pass, and upon which no other vehicle
or pedestrian is approaching in the opposite direction, closer than 300 yards.
(KRS 189.010 (18))
   "VEHICLE." Includes all agencies for the transportation of persons or
property over or upon the public highways of the commonwealth, all vehicles
passing over or upon the highways, and all vehicles propelled by power other
than muscular power. “VEHICLE” does not include road rollers, road graders,
farm tractors, vehicles on which power shovels are mounted, construction
equipment customarily used only on the site of construction and which is not
practical for the transportation of persons or property upon the highways,
vehicles that travel exclusively upon rails, and vehicles propelled by electric
power obtained from overhead wires while being operated within the municipality
or where the vehicles do not travel more than 5 miles beyond the city limits
and electric low-speed scooters.
(KRS 189.010 (19))
   "WINDOW." Any device designed for exterior viewing from a motor vehicle,
except the windshield, any roof-mounted viewing device, and any viewing device
having less than 150 square inches in area.
(KRS 189.010(23))
   "WRECKER." A motor vehicle on which a wrecking crane and other equipment
suitable for motor vehicle wrecker service has been permanently mounted.
(KRS 189.011) (Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
§ 70.02 RIGHT OF ACTION UNABRIDGED.
   This title shall not abridge the right of any person to prosecute a civil
action for injuries to person or property resulting from the negligent use of
vehicles on highways.
(KRS 189.660)
§ 70.03 TRAFFIC REGULATED AND RESTRICTED; DRIVER TO OBEY CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The city may restrict or regulate traffic and may install and maintain
traffic control devices upon city-maintained highways in such manner as is
reasonably necessary to promote the safety and convenience of the traveling
public.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic control device applicable thereto unless otherwise directed by traffic
or police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle.
   (C)   The city may restrict or regulate traffic upon state maintained
highways in such a manner as is reasonably necessary to promote the safety of
the traveling public.
(KRS 189.231)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY SIGNS.
   When it is determined, upon the basis of an engineering and traffic
investigation at an intersection, that vehicle stop signs are more restrictive
than necessary for the safe and efficient control of that intersection's
vehicular movements, yield right-of-way signs may be installed by the city on
one or more of the intersection approaches for the purpose of assigning right-
of-way. The driver of a vehicle, in obedience to a yield right-of-way sign
shall yield right-of-way to vehicles not so obligated to yield or stop which
are within the intersection or approaching so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard; but such driver, having so yielded, may proceed at such time
as a safe interval occurs.
(KRS 189.335)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 70.05 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNS, UNIFORM STANDARDS TO BE PRESCRIBED; SIGN TO
CONFORM.
   All traffic-control signs and devices shall be placed within the city in
accordance with the Uniform Traffic-Control Devices Manual, latest edition, as
adopted by the Commonwealth of Kentucky. Satisfactory operating traffic devices
in use on the date of adoption of the manual may continue to be used, however,
if such devices are replaced or revised, they must be replaced or revised in
conformance with the provisions of the manual. Wherever discretion is
permitted, or the determination made that public safety requires, such traffic-
control devices or markings may be authorized by resolution of the city council
on recommendation of the mayor or chief of police. Any traffic-control device,
marking, or sign put in place in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
shall be enforced in accordance with the provisions of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes.
(KRS 189.337(3)) (Ord. 15, passed 8-26-80)
§ 70.06 PERMITTING UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF A MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for the owner, or any other person, employing or otherwise
directing the operator of any vehicle, to require or knowingly to permit the
operation of such vehicle upon a highway in any manner contrary to law.
(KRS 189.224)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (B), (D), (E)
§ 70.07 ENFORCEMENT OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS ON OFF-STREET PARKING FACILITIES
OFFERED FOR PUBLIC USE.
   All law enforcement officials shall enforce the traffic regulations
contained in this traffic code on off-street parking facilities offered for
public use, except for-hire parking facilities listed in §
70.30.
(KRS 189.396)
Penalty, see § 70.99(A)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the traffic division in the police department,
of this city, acting under the supervision and control of the chief of police,
with such aid as may be required or rendered by other members of the police
department to direct all traffic in conformance with this traffic code and to
enforce the traffic regulations as set forth in this traffic code, to make
arrests for traffic violations, to investigate accidents and to cooperate with
the chief of police and other officers of the city in the administration of the
traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve traffic conditions.
   (B)   The traffic division shall keep a record of all violations of this
traffic code of which any person has been charged together with a record of the
final disposition of the alleged offenses. The record shall be maintained to
show all types of violations and the total of each, and the traffic division
shall annually prepare a traffic report to contain information on the number of
traffic accidents, traffic accident data, together with plans and
recommendations of the traffic division for future traffic safety activities.
   (C)   The traffic division shall submit summarized reports to the mayor, the
chief of police, the director of finance and the judge of the police court of
all notices issued and arrests made for violation of any of the provisions of
this traffic code, and the final disposition of notices, charges and cases, or
the present status of every case of violation of this traffic code, and of all
fines collected by the traffic division under the authority of this traffic
code, and shall account for and pay to the clerk of the police court any and
all fines so collected by the traffic division under authority of the traffic
code.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
§ 70.11 AUTHORITY OF POLICE TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city
in accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the traffic division of the police department
and to all other uniformed police of the police department or any uniformed
persons deputized by the chief of police, and, except in case of emergency, it
shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or to attempt to direct
traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or any other signal.
   (B)   When required for the conservation of public safety or to relieve
unusual traffic congestion, the chief of police shall at his discretion have
authority to make and enforce, as a temporary measure, for a period not to
exceed 48 hours, such traffic regulations as he may deem necessary. If the
temporary regulation is continued longer than 48 hours the mayor shall be
notified in writing of the extended order.
   (C)   In any emergency, any police officer may at his discretion disregard
traffic control lights or signals or established regulations in order to
facilitate the movement of traffic.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 70.12 COMPLYING WITH TRAFFIC OFFICER'S SIGNAL.
   No operator of a vehicle, after having received a visual or audible signal
from an officer directing traffic shall knowingly or wantonly disregard the
signal so as to interfere with or endanger the operation of the traffic officer
or other vehicles or pedestrians.
(KRS 189.393)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (C)
§ 70.13 DIRECTOR OF WORKS TO ERECT SIGNS.
   The director of works is authorized and required to designate by suitable
signs and markings those streets of the city on which parking is restricted
according to the terms of §§
78.01 to
78.07, except those parking restrictions which by their very nature would not
require signs and markings.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES; LIGHTS
§ 70.20 LIMITATION OF COLORED LIGHTS USED IN TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
different colored lights, or colored lighted arrows, successively one at a time
or in combination, only the colors green, red, and yellow shall be used, except
for special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend or symbolic message, and
the lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as
follows.
   (A)   Green indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either turn. But vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left,
shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully
within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time the signal is
exhibited.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal, shown alone or in
combination with another indication, may cautiously enter the intersection only
to make the movement indicated by the arrow, or such other movement as is
permitted by other indications shown at the same time. Vehicular traffic shall
yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent crosswalk and
to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal,
pedestrians facing any green signal, except when the sole green signal is a
turn arrow, may proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked
crosswalk.
      (4)   Vehicular traffic that entered an intersection on a circular green
or yellow is allowed to complete a left turn during the red indication.
   (B)   Steady yellow indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is warned that the
related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication will be
exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter the
intersection.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing a steady yellow signal, unless otherwise
directed by a pedestrian-control signal, are advised that there is insufficient
time to cross the roadway before a red indication is shown and no pedestrian
shall then start to cross the roadway.
   (C)   Steady red indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular red signal alone shall stop at
a clearly marked stop line, but if none, then before entering the crosswalk on
the near side of the intersection, or if none, then before entering the
intersection and shall remain standing until a green indication is shown,
except as follows:
         (a)   The driver of a vehicle which is stopped as required by this
paragraph with the intention of making a right turn, may make such right turn,
after stopping, unless an official sign has been erected prohibiting such
movement, but shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians and other traffic
lawfully proceeding through the intersection;
         (b)   The driver of a vehicle which is stopped as required by this
paragraph whose vehicle is in the left lane of a one-way highway with the
intention of making a left turn onto the left lane of another one-way highway
with the flow of traffic, may make such left turn, after stopping, unless an
official sign has been erected prohibiting such movement, but shall yield the
right-of-way to pedestrians and other traffic lawfully proceeding through the
intersection; and
         (c)   In instances where there are 2 right or left turn lanes, an
allowable turn under this paragraph may be made from either lane unless a
regulatory sign specifically prohibits it.
      (2)   The city may, by ordinance, and the department of highways may, by
regulation, prohibit any such right or left turn against a steady red signal at
any intersection, which prohibition shall be effective when an official sign
prohibiting such movement is erected at the intersection.
   (D)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of
any sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
   (E)   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow light is used in a
traffic signal or with a traffic sign, it shall require obedience by vehicular
traffic as follows:
      (1)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, operators of vehicles shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side
of the intersection, or if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting
roadway where the operator has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering it, and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign; and
      (2)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, operators of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   (F)   Any person operating a motorcycle who violates division (C) of this
section by entering or crossing an intersection controlled by a traffic control
signal against a steady red light shall have an affirmative defense to that
charge if the person establishes all of the following conditions:
      (1)   The motorcycle was brought to a complete stop;
      (2)   The traffic control signal continued to show a steady red light for
120 seconds or the traffic control signal at the intersection has completed 2
lighting cycles;
      (3)   The traffic control signal was apparently malfunctioning or, if
programmed or engineered to change to a green light only after detecting the
approach of a motor vehicle, the signal apparently failed to detect the arrival
of a motorcycle; and
      (4)   No motor vehicle or person was approaching on the street or highway
to be crossed or entered, or any approaching person or vehicle was so far away
from the intersection that it did not constitute an immediate hazard.
   (G)   The affirmative defense outlined in division (F) of this section shall
only apply to a violation for entering or crossing an intersection controlled
by a traffic signal against a steady red light and shall not provide a defense
to any other civil or criminal action.
   (H)   In the event a motorcyclist exercises the affirmative defense
provisions set forth in division (F) of this section, the Transportation
Cabinet or its employees are specifically immune from any and all civil
liability arising from any such claim, lawsuit, or dispute. Any claim, lawsuit,
or dispute against the Transportation Cabinet as a result of the affirmative
defense set forth in division (F) of this section, shall be brought using the
provisions outlined in KRS Chapter 44.
(KRS 189.338)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 70.21 INSTALLATION OF FLASHER LIGHTS NEAR SCHOOLS; REDUCED SPEED LIMIT.
   (A)   The city, with respect to school zones within its incorporated areas,
may authorize by ordinance installation at city expense of school flasher
lights and other traffic-control devices on highways in school zones as they
deem reasonable and necessary.
   (B)   The speed limit on all highways where school flasher lights are in
operation shall be 25 m.p.h. Flasher lights shall be placed 1/8 of a mile on
each side of the principal school building where practical. The city shall
erect signs notifying motorists of the speed limit.
   (C)   Any traffic-control devices erected by any governmental unit shall
conform to standards and specifications authorized by §
70.05.
(KRS 189.336)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 70.22 FLASHING LIGHTS PROHIBITED NEAR HIGHWAY.
   No person shall install or maintain a red, yellow, green or similarly
colored flashing light within 100 feet of the right-of-way of a city-maintained
highway for any purposes other than safety, highway construction, or emergency
purposes.
(KRS 189.045)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (F)
§ 70.23 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without authority, attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon or any
part thereof.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (G)
§ 70.24 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS, MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or to display
upon or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-
control device or railroad sign or signal which attempts to direct or purports
to direct the movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or
interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal. No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any
public authority permit upon any street, any traffic sign or signal bearing any
commercial advertising. Nothing in this section shall be construed as
restricting any public department or public utility of the city in any
emergency or temporarily from marking or erecting any traffic barrier, or sign
and its placing having been approved by the director of works.
   (B)   Every prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a public
nuisance and the director of works is empowered forthwith to remove the same or
to cause it to be removed.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (H)
§ 70.25 DEFECTIVE DEVICES.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs are required shall be
enforceable against an alleged violator, if at this time and place of the
alleged violation the required sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by any ordinarily observant person. When any particular
section of this traffic code does not state that signs are required, the
section shall be effective without signs being placed to give notice thereof.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
PARKING LOTS
§ 70.30 DECLARATION OF POLICY CONCERNING PARKING LOTS AND AUTOMOBILE STORAGE
GARAGES.
   It is declared that the operation of automobile parking lots or automobile
storage garages, wherein automobiles are parked or stored for hire, is a
business impressed with the public interest. It is further declared that any
contract purporting to limit the liability of the operator of the lot or
garage, for loss of or damage to an automobile parked for hire, or its
contents, except liability for damage by the elements or by physical forces
beyond the control of the operator and his employees, is against public policy.
(KRS 189.700)
§ 70.31 POSTING OF NOTICE OF HOURS FACILITY IS OPEN; ATTENDANT REQUIRED;
EXCEPTIONS.
   Every parking lot or storage garage, wherein automobiles are stored or kept
for hire, shall post clearly the hours during which the parking facility is
open for business. It shall be the duty of every operator of a parking lot or
garage to keep an attendant on duty during the posted hours of operation of the
parking facility, unless the entrance to the parking lot or garage is
controlled by a mechanically operated gate, door or other entrance device which
is operated by the customer or unless the parking lot is operated on an honor
system which requires no attendant, or by a system of meters at each individual
stall. This section shall not apply to operators who lease a specific space to
a customer for a period of a month or longer at a time.
(KRS 189.705)
§ 70.32 LIABILITY OF PARKING LOT OR STORAGE GARAGE OPERATOR.
   Every operator of an automobile parking lot or storage garage who takes
possession of the customer's automobile and requires keys to be left with the
automobile or the employees of the parking lot or garage, shall be liable as
bailee for hire and shall be obligated safely to keep and return the
automobiles so parked or stored and shall be liable for any loss or damage to
the automobiles except such as is caused by persons or forces beyond the
control of the operator and his employees. The liability shall expressly
include liability for theft, and for damage resulting from collision of any
type on the lot or in the garage where the event is in the control of or should
be in the control of the operator and his employees.
(KRS 189.710)
§ 70.33 CHECKING OF PERSONAL ARTICLES OTHER THAN AUTOMOBILE EQUIPMENT; POSTING
OF NOTICE.
   The customer may contract to check personal articles, not properly the
equipment of an automobile, by obtaining an additional check for these
articles. All parking lots and garages which park or store automobiles for hire
and assume to act as bailees for the automobile shall post a sign of not less
than 24 inches by 36 inches having bold lettering bearing the inscription
"Responsible for Contents Only if Checked Separately." The sign shall be placed
in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance of the parking lot or storage
garage, at or near the eye level of a motorist seated in an automobile, and
shall be well lighted at all times while the parking facility is opened for
business.
(KRS 189.715)
§ 70.34 CONTRACTS LIMITING LIABILITY ARE VOID.
   Any contract which purports to limit in any way the common law liability of
the parking operator or his liability under §§
70.30 through
70.34 shall be totally void and of no effect.
(KRS 189.720)
§ 70.35 REMOVAL OF VEHICLE BY OWNER OF PRIVATE PARKING LOT; SIGNS.
   (A) Any owner or attendant of a privately owned parking lot may have a
towing company remove from the lot any unauthorized parked vehicle. A towing
company engaged to remove such vehicle shall have a lien on the vehicle in
accordance with KRS 189.725(12).
   (B) Every operator of a parking lot covered by division (A) of this section
shall post signs stating that the parking lot is privately owned and
unauthorized vehicles will be towed away at the owner’s expense.
(KRS 189.725)
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 70.40 ABANDONED VEHICLES; REMOVAL; DISPOSITION.
   (A)   Any person who leaves a vehicle upon a city street under circumstances
indicating an abandonment, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
70.99 (A). A vehicle left upon a city street for 3 consecutive days shall be
presumed to be abandoned.
   (B)   The public authority having jurisdiction over a particular county road
or city street shall cause a vehicle that is presumed to be abandoned under
division (A) of this section and that is fit for future use to be removed by
some person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor vehicles and the
provisions of KRS 376.275 shall apply in disposing of the vehicle. Any money
obtained in disposing of a vehicle that is in excess of any liens shall be paid
by the seller to the owner and if the owner cannot be located, the excess money
shall escheat to the state pursuant to the provisions of KRS Chapter 393. A
vehicle shall be registered or transferred in the county where the sale is
conducted upon an affidavit by the seller that the provisions of KRS 376.275
have been met. The affidavit shall contain information as prescribed by the
Transportation Cabinet.
   (C)   If a vehicle that is presumed abandoned under division (A) of this
section is, in the opinion of the public authority, unfit for future use, the
public authority may dispose of it immediately in a manner it deems
appropriate.
(KRS 189.751)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
PARADES
§ 70.50 PERMITS FOR PARADES, ASSEMBLAGES, PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or person, society, organization
or corporation to conduct or to participate in any street assemblage, parade or
procession, other than a funeral procession, upon any street except upon a
permit issued by the chief of police. Application for permits shall be made in
the form the chief of police shall prescribe, not less than 3 days, excluding
Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays, before the time intended for the assemblage,
parade or procession. The mayor or the chief of police, in the event of an
emergency, or for cause deemed sufficient by him, may cancel the permit at any
time before the parade, assemblage, or procession begins.
   (B)   The permit or an order accompanying it shall designate the places of
gathering or formation and of dispersal of the assemblages, parades or
processions, and the route of march or travel, and the streets or portions of
streets which may be used or occupied, and the time and duration of the
assemblage, parade or procession. No permits for parades or processions of an
advertising nature shall be granted at any time in the business district
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54; amend. Ord. 8, passed 5-11- 76)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
VEHICLE RADIOS
§ 70.60 VEHICLE RADIOS; PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   As used in this section the term "high frequency police radio
receiving set" shall mean any radio receiving set capable of receiving any
message sent out by any police radio station.
   (B)   High frequency police radio sets prohibited, exceptions. It shall be
unlawful for any person to equip or operate inside the city any motor vehicle
with a high frequency police radio receiving set, unless:
      (1)   The motor vehicle is being used by the federal, state, city, or
county government, or a peace officer; or
      (2)   The motor vehicle is being used by a public utility or other
corporation, commercial organization, or individual operating a federally
licensed short wave radio communication system. However, each vehicle so
equipped shall either be plainly identifiable as belonging to the federal
licensee or be registered with the chief of police for information of the
police department; or
      (3)   The motor vehicle has been so equipped pursuant to a permit from
the chief of police granted as hereinafter prescribed.
   (C)   Permits. Any person desiring a permit from the chief of police to
operate a high frequency police radio receiving set in a motor vehicle inside
the city shall file an application with the chief of police in writing, stating
the name of the applicant, the license number, engine number, model and make of
the motor vehicle in which it is desired to install the set and shall furnish a
photograph of applicant and his fingerprints. The application shall also state
the reason why it is desired to install the set. If the chief of police finds
that the application shows a need for the set, that the set will be used for a
lawful purpose, and that the public interest will be served by a granting of
the application he shall issue a permit for installation and use of the set
without charge. An application must be filed and a new permit must be secured
for each year a high frequency police radio receiving set is used.
   (D)   Permits not transferable. Any permit issued under division (C) shall
not be transferable to any other person and any high frequency police radio
receiving set authorized to be installed and used by any permit shall not be
placed in any other motor vehicle than the one described in the application for
the permit without first obtaining a permit from the chief of police for the
removal of the set to the other motor vehicle. No fee shall be charged for
removal permit. In case of a change in license number of any motor vehicle in
which a high frequency police radio receiving set has been permitted under this
section, the owner of the vehicle shall notify the chief of police of such
change within 5 days after the change is made.
   (E)   Responding to or interfering with police calls. It shall be unlawful
for the operator of any motor vehicle, other than city officers and police and
fire department officers and employees of public utilities in the line of duty,
to follow up and answer police radio calls, or to in any way interfere with
police officers answering such radio police calls.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (M)
Statutory reference:
   Possession or use of radio capable of sending or receiving police messages,
see KRS 432.570
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this traffic code for
which no other penalty is provided shall be guilty of a violation and shall be
fined not less than $10 nor more than $100 for each offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
70.06,
72.07 (B) and (D),
72.12 (D),
75.03,
75.04,
75.05,
75.07,
75.08,
75.09,
75.11, or
75.12 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not exceeding $500.
   (C)   Every person convicted for violation of §
70.07 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished upon a first
conviction by imprisonment for a period of not less than 5 days nor more than
90 days, or by a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $500, or by both such
fine and imprisonment, and on a second or subsequent conviction shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than 10
days nor more than 6 months, or by a fine of not less than $50 nor more than
$500, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   (D)   Nothing in this division or in §§
70.06,
75.03,
75.04,
75.05,
75.07, or
75.08 shall be deemed to prejudice or affect the authority of the city to
suspend or revoke certificates of common carriers, permits of contract
carriers, or driver's or chauffeur's licenses, for any violation of these
sections or any other act applicable to motor vehicles, as provided by law.
   (E)   Every person who commits, attempts to commit, conspires to commit, or
aids or abets in the commission of, any act declared by §§
70.06,
75.03,
75.04,
75.05,
75.07, or
75.08 to be a crime, whether individually or in connection with one or more
other persons or as a principal, agent, or accessory, shall be guilty of such
offense, and every person who falsely, fraudulently, forcibly, or willfully
induces, causes, coerces, requires, permits, assists, or directs another to
violate any provision of these sections is likewise guilty of the offense.
   (F)   Any person who violates §
70.12 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500.
   (G)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
70.23, 71.47,
74.08 through
74.11,
75.21, or
75.25 shall be guilty of a violation and shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined not more than $25.
   (H)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §§
70.24,
70.25, 70.29,
71.29,
71.60,
71.61,
72.16,
72.17,
75.22, or
75.26 shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not less than $5 nor
more than $25 for each offense.
   (I)   Any person who violates §§
71.05 through
71.07 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 30 days
or both.
   (J)   If a member of a regular or voluntary fire department or rescue squad
violates §
71.07 he shall, in addition to any other penalty, be immediately dismissed from
his membership or employment with the fire department or rescue squad and shall
be disqualified from being employed by or being a member of the fire department
or rescue squad in the city for a period of 3 years. Upon conviction of a
second offense he shall be permanently barred from employment or membership in
any fire department, rescue squad, or police department in the city, nor shall
he be permitted to operate any public safety vehicle.
   (K)   Any person who violates §
71.08 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $1,000 or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 6
months, or both. In the case of a private vehicle, all lighting and other
equipment used in violation of §§
71.05 through
71.08,
72.04, and
72.05, shall be confiscated and forfeited to the county.
   (L)   Any person who violates §§
71.17 (A) or
71.34 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned for not more than 6 months, or both.
   (M)   Any person who violates §§
71.18,
71.42 (A), or
70.60 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $20 nor
more than $100 for each offense. A violation of §
71.42 (A) shall be punished, in the alternative, by imprisonment in the county
jail for not more than one year or both fine and imprisonment.
   (N)   Any person who violates §
71.20 (C) (3) shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not less than
$1 nor more than $20. Neither court cost nor fees shall be taxed against any
person convicted of violating §
71.20 (C) (3).
   (O)   Any person found violating §§
71.35,
72.20, or
72.30 through
72.33 is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $10 nor more
than $25.
   (P)   Any person who violates §
71.36 shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not more than $5 in
excess of the cost of the repair of the road.
   (Q)   Any person who violates §
71.37 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $200 or be imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both.
   (R)   Any person who violates §
71.38 shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not less than $10 nor
more than $50.
   (S)   (1)   Any person who violates §
71.39 (B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined, for the first
offense, not less than $100 nor more than $500; for the second offense, a fine
of not less than $100 nor more than $500 and imprisoned for not less than 3
days nor more than 6 months; for each subsequent offense he shall be fined not
less than $100 nor more than $500 and imprisoned for not less than 30 days nor
more than 12 months.
      (2)   Any peace officer who violates §
71.39 (C) shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not less than $25
nor more than $100.
   (T)   Any person who violates §
71.41 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $100 or imprisoned not less than 30 days nor more than 12 months, or
both.
   (U)   (1)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §
71.44 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $15 nor
more than $200, or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both.
      (2)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in division (l), in case of
violation by any person in whose name the vehicle used in the transportation of
inflammable liquids or explosives is licensed, such person shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500. Each
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (V)   Any law enforcement agency which fails or refuses to forward the
reports required by §
71.51 shall be subject to the penalties prescribed in KRS 17.157 (2).
   (W)   Any person who violates §
72.04 shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500, or imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 30 days or
both. In the case of a private vehicle, all lighting and other equipment used
in violation of §§
71.05 through
71.08,
72.04, and
72.05 shall be confiscated and forfeited to the county in which the offense
occurred.
   (X)   Any person who violates §
72.05 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $1,000 or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 30
days, or both. In the case of a privately owned vehicle, all lighting and other
equipment used or installed in violation of §§
71.05 through
71.08,
72.04, and
72.05 shall be confiscated and forfeited to the county in which the offense
occurred.
   (Y)   Any person who violates §
72.22 shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not less than $5 nor
more than $50 for each day he operates a truck in violation of §
72.22.
   (Z)   (1)   Any person who violates §
72.23 (A) shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not more than $5.
      (2)   Any person who violates §
72.24 shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $200.
   (AA)   (1)   Any person who violates §
72.27 (A) shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not less than $15
nor more than $100.
      (2)   Any peace officer who fails, when properly informed, to enforce §
72.27 shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not less than $15 nor
more than $100.
      (3) All fines collected under this division, after payment of commissions
to officers entitled thereto, shall go to the county road fund if the offense
is committed in the county, or to the city street fund, if committed in the
city.
   (BB)   A person who elects to operate a bicycle in accord with any
regulations adopted pursuant to §
73.05 and who willfully violates a provision of such a regulation shall be
guilty of a violation and shall be fined not more than $100. A person who
operates a bicycle without complying with any regulations adopted pursuant to §
73.05 or vehicle safety statutes shall be prosecuted for violation of the
latter.
   (CC)   Any person who violates the weight provisions of §§
75.03,
75.04,
75.09.
75.11, and
75.12 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined in
an amount equal to $.02 per pound for each pound of excess load when the excess
is 2,000 pounds or less, $.03 per pound when the excess exceeds 2,000 pounds
and is 3,000 pounds or less, $.05 per pound when the excess exceeds 3,000
pounds and is 4,000 pounds or less, $.07 per pound when the excess exceeds
4,000 pounds and is 5,000 pounds or less, and $.09 per pound when the excess
exceeds 5,000 pounds but in no case shall the fine be less than $50 nor more
than $500.
   (DD)   The railway companies or corporations shall, for each day they fail
to comply with the provisions of §§
75.27 or
75.28, be subject to a fine of $20 for each grade crossing referred to. Any
person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §§
75.27 or
75.28 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $5 nor
more than $25 for each offense.
   (EE)   Any person, partnership, or corporation, violating §§
75.30 or
75.32 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $15 nor
more than $200 for each offense.
   (FF)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating §
75.31 shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not less than $5 nor
more than $100 or confined in the county jail for not less than 5 nor more than
90 days or both fine or imprisonment, for each offense.
   (GG)   A violation of any provision of §
75.33 shall be guilty of a violation and shall be punishable by a fine of not
less than $10 nor more than $30.
   (HH)   Whoever violates any provision of §
71.42(G) shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not less than $75
nor more than $100. Each day's continued violation shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 89-22, passed 12-26-89)
CHAPTER 71: OPERATION OF VEHICLES
Section
In General
   
71.01   Qualification of motor vehicle operator
   
71.02   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.03   Vehicles to keep to right
   
71.04   Vehicles meeting other vehicles and animals
   
71.05   Right-of-way to emergency vehicles
   
71.06   Blocking or following emergency vehicles
   
71.07   Driving over unprotected hoses of Fire Department
   
71.08   Exemptions from traffic regulations
   
71.09   Turning and right-of-way at intersections
   
71.10   Overtaking vehicles
   
71.11   Traffic lanes
   
71.12   Following vehicles
   
71.13   Funeral processions
   
71.14   Assistance in passing or overtaking
   
71.15   Boarding or alighting from moving vehicles
   
71.16   Passing cars receiving or discharging passengers
   
71.17   Passing stopped school or church bus prohibited; exceptions
   
71.18   School bus stop signaling device; use; stopping regulated
   
71.19   Signals
   
71.20   Speed; parking
   
71.21   (Reserved)
   
71.22   Emergency vehicles excepted
   
71.23   Turning around on curve or grade
   
71.24   (Reserved)
   
71.25   Coasting prohibited
   
71.26   Unattended vehicle
   
71.27   Tampering with vehicles
   
71.28   Starting a parked vehicle
   
71.29   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
   
71.30   Stopping, standing or repairing vehicle on highway
   
71.31   Obstruction to operator's view or control
   
71.32   Towed vehicles
   
71.33   (Reserved)
   
71.34   Off-road vehicles
   
71.35   Broken glass, nails, etc., on roadway
   
71.36   Logs or stones not to be dragged on highways
   
71.37   Motor vehicle races on highways prohibited
   
71.38   Horse race on highway prohibited
   
71.39   Operating vehicle under influence of intoxicants or drugs prohibited
   
71.40   Presumptions concerning intoxication
   
71.41   Renting motor vehicle to drunk or drug addict prohibited
   
71.42   Railroad crossings
   
71.43   School and church buses to stop at railroad crossings
   
71.44   Vehicles carrying inflammable liquids stop at railroad crossings
   
71.45   Driving on left side of roadway prohibited; exceptions
   
71.46   Vehicle operator to yield right-of-way
Duty in Event of Accident; Reports
   
71.50   (Reserved)
   
71.51   Vehicle accident reports by operators, law enforcement officers and
agencies
   
71.52   Duty in case of accident
Prohibited Practices
   
71.60   Selling from vehicles
   
71.61   Display of parked vehicle for sale
Reckless Driving and Speed Contest Exhibitions
   
71.70   Definitions
   
71.71   Vehicle speed contests and reckless driving exhibitions prohibited
   
71.72   Coordinating or promoting vehicle speed contests and reckless driving
exhibitions
   
71.73   Obstruction of streets
   
71.74   Enforcement
   
71.75   Appeals
 
§ 71.01 QUALIFICATION OF MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATOR.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate a motor
vehicle upon any street without being entitled to, eligible for, and capable of
obtaining an operator’s license, and without first having procured or obtained
such operator’s license from the State Tax Commission and without having such
license in his or her immediate possession at all times when driving a motor
vehicle, as required by KRS 186.400 through 186.640, except those therein
excepted.
   (B)   No person shall drive or operate a motor vehicle on any street if the
operator’s license has been revoked or suspended, while the license is revoked
or suspended.
   (C)   All persons violating the above sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes shall be arrested and prosecuted by the police department.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
§ 71.02 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure the highway.
   (C)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure vehicles or equipment located in or near a highway
work zone.
   (D)   A person shall not operate any vehicle in a reckless or negligent
manner as to endanger persons or property in or near a highway, or in or near a
highway work zone.
   (E)   In addition to any other penalty, an operator who violates divisions
(C) or (D) above shall be subject to revocation of his or her operator’s
license under KRS 186.256.
(KRS 189.290) Penalty, see §
70.99(A)
§ 71.03 VEHICLES TO KEEP TO RIGHT.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle when upon a highway shall travel upon the
right side of the highway whenever possible, and unless the left side of the
highway is clear of all other traffic or obstructions for a sufficient distance
ahead to permit the overtaking and passing of another vehicle to be completed
without interfering with the operation of any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction or any vehicle being overtaken. The overtaking vehicle shall
return to the proper traffic lane as soon as practicable and, if the passing
vehicle enters the oncoming traffic lane, before coming within 200 feet of any
approaching vehicle.
   (B)   The operator of any vehicle moving slowly upon a highway shall keep
his or her vehicle as closely as practicable to the right-hand boundary of the
highway, allowing more swiftly moving vehicles reasonably free passage to the
left, unless signage or markings indicate otherwise.
(KRS 189.300) Penalty, see §
70.99(A)
§ 71.04 VEHICLES MEETING OTHER VEHICLES AND ANIMALS.
   (A)   Two vehicles passing or about to pass each other in opposite
directions shall have the right-of-way, and no other vehicle to the rear of
those two vehicles shall pass or attempt to pass either of those vehicles.
   (B)   Vehicles proceeding from opposite directions shall pass each other
from the right, each giving to the other one-half of the highway as nearly as
possible.
   (C)   Every person operating a vehicle on a highway and approaching any
animal being ridden or driven, shall exercise every reasonable precaution to
prevent frightening the animal and to insure the safety of the person riding or
driving it.
(KRS 189.310) Penalty, see §
70.99(A)
§ 71.05 RIGHT-OF-WAY TO EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating red or blue lights,
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
emergency vehicle; and the driver is given audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-
way, immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the edge or curve of the highway clear of any intersection, and stop and remain
stopped until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed
by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle, operated in conformity
with the provisions of division (A), the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall remain stopped until the
emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer or
firefighter.
(KRS 189.930 (1), (2)) Penalty, see §
70.99(I)
§ 71.06 BLOCKING OR FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES. 
   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business, shall
follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the provisions
of §
70.05(A) closer than 500 feet, nor shall he or she drive into, or park the
vehicle into, or park the vehicle within, the block where the vehicle has
stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm unless he or she is directed
otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
(KRS 189.930 (3)) Penalty, see §
70.99(I)
§ 71.07 DRIVING OVER UNPROTECTED HOSES OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   No vehicle, train, or other equipment shall be driven over any unprotected
hose of a Fire Department when the hose is laid down on any street, private
driveway, or track for use at any fire or fire alarm unless the Fire Department
official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
(KRS 189.930 (4)) Penalty, see §
70.99(I), (J), (K)
§ 71.08 EXEMPTIONS FROM TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided in KRS 189.920, the speed limitations set forth in
this traffic code do not apply to emergency vehicles when responding to
emergency calls; police vehicles when in pursuit of an actual or suspected
violator of the law; ambulances when transporting a patient to medical care
facilities; or any vehicle used by an organ procurement organization while
transporting a human organ or tissue for the purpose of organ recovery or
transplantation in an emergency situation involving an imminent health risk;
and emergency vehicles when the driver thereof is giving the warning required
by division (E) below). No portion of this division shall be construed to
relieve the driver of the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the street or highway.
   (B)    The driver of an emergency vehicle, when responding to an emergency
call or of a police vehicle in pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of
the law, or a vehicle used by an organ procurement organization transporting a
human organ or tissue, and giving the warning required by division (A), upon
approaching any red light or stop signal or any stop sign shall slow down as
necessary for safety to traffic, but may proceed past the red or stop light or
stop sign with due regard for the safety of persons using the street or
highway.
   (C)    The driver of an emergency vehicle, when responding to an emergency
call or of a police vehicle in pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of
the law and giving the warning required by division (A), may drive on the left
side of any highway or on the opposite direction of a one-way street provided
the normal lanes of traffic are blocked and he or she does so with due regard
for the safety of all persons using the street or highway.
   (D)    The driver of an emergency or public safety vehicle may stop or park
his or her vehicle upon any street or highway without regard to §§
71.20 and
71.30, provided that, during the time the vehicle is parked at the scene of an
emergency, at least one warning light is in operation at all times.
   (E)   No driver or operator of any emergency or public safety or other
vehicle shall use the warning lights or siren, bell, or exhaust whistle of his
or her vehicle for any purposes or under any circumstances other than those
permitted by §§
71.05 through
71.08,
72.04, and
72.05.
   (F)   Sections
71.05 through
71.08,
72.04, and
72.05 do not relieve the driver of any emergency or public safety vehicle from
the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons and property
upon the highway.
   (G)   The driver of a public safety vehicle which also meets the definition
of a slow-moving vehicle under KRS 189.810 and any vehicle acting as an escort
for the slow-moving vehicle may travel at a speed that may impede or block the
normal and reasonable movement of traffic if:
      (1)   The vehicle is being operated in an official capacity;
      (2)   Operation of the vehicle is in compliance with all state and local
government policies; and
      (3)   It is necessary for the safe operation of the vehicle.
(KRS 189.940)
Penalty, see § 70.99(K)
§ 71.09 TURNING AND RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
roadways at approximately the same time, the operator of the vehicle on the
left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (B)   The right-of-way rule declared in division (A) is modified at highways
and through intersections as otherwise stated in this chapter.
   (C)   Preferential right-of-way may be indicated by stop signs or yield
signs. The State Highway Commissioner with reference to state highways and
local authorities with reference to other highways under their jurisdiction may
designate any intersection as a stop intersection or as a yield intersection
and erect stop signs or yield signs at one or more entrances to such
intersections.
   (D)   Except when directed to proceed by a traffic officer, every operator
of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line,
but, if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the operator has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting
roadway before entering it. After having stopped the operator shall yield the
right-of-way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another
roadway so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time when
such operator is moving across or within the intersection or junction of
roadways.
   (E)   The operator of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall in obedience
to such sign slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions and,
if required for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but
if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection,
or, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the
operator has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before
entering it. After slowing and stopping, the operator shall yield the right-of-
way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so
closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time such operator is
moving across or within the intersection or junction of roadways. However, if
such an operator is involved in a collision with a vehicle in the intersection
or junction of roadways after driving past a yield sign without stopping, such
collision shall be deemed prima facie evidence of his or her failure to yield
right-of-way.
   (F)   The operator of a vehicle intending to turn shall do so as follows:
      (1)   Right turns. Both the approach for a right turn and right turn
shall be made as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the
roadway;
      (2)   Left turns. The operator of a vehicle intending to turn left shall
approach the turn in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully available to traffic
moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle. Whenever practicable the
left turn shall be made to the left of the center of the intersection and so as
to leave the intersection or other location in the extreme left-hand lane
lawfully available to traffic moving in the same direction as such vehicle on
the roadway being entered.
   (G)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities in their
respective jurisdictions may cause official traffic control devices to be
placed and thereby require and direct that a different course from that
specified in this section be traveled by turning vehicles and when such devices
are so placed no operator shall turn a vehicle other than as directed and
required by such devices.
   (H)   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to
proceed in the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety
without interfering with other traffic.
   (I)   The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (J)   The operator of a vehicle about to enter or cross a roadway from any
place other than another roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on the roadway to be entered or crossed.
   (K)   On highways with a center lane restricted for left turns off the
highway by vehicles proceeding in both directions:
      (1)   A left turn shall not be made from any other lane; and
      (2)   A vehicle shall not be driven in a center lane described in this
section except when preparing for or making a left turn off the highway or
merging onto the highway after making a left turn from a side road or other
entrance.
(KRS 189.330) Penalty, see §
70.99(A)
§ 71.10 OVERTAKING VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking other vehicles proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left of them and shall not again drive to the
right until reasonably clear of those vehicles. The driver of a vehicle
overtaking street cars may pass either to the right or left when so directed by
a police officer, when on a one-way street or where the location of the tracks
prevents compliance with this section, with regard for other traffic. (KRS
189.340(1))
   (B)   (1)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking a bicycle or electric low-
speed scooter proceeding in the same direction shall:
            (a)   If there is more than one lane for traffic proceeding in the
same direction, move the vehicle to the immediate left, if the lane is
available and moving in the lane is reasonably safe; or
            (b)   If there is only one lane for traffic proceeding in the same
direction, pass to the left of the bicycle or electric low-speed scooter at a
distance of not less than three feet between any portion of the vehicle and the
bicycle or electric low-speed scooter and maintain that distance until safely
past the overtaken bicycle or electric low-speed scooter. If space on the
roadway is not available to have a minimum distance of three feet between the
vehicle and the bicycle or electric low-speed scooter, then the driver of the
passing vehicle shall use reasonable caution in passing the bicyclist or
electric low-speed scooter operator.
      (2)   The driver of a motor vehicle may drive to the left of the center
of a roadway, including when a no-passing zone is marked in accordance with §
71.11, to pass a person operating a bicycle or electric low-speed scooter only
if the roadway to the left of the center is unobstructed for a sufficient
distance to permit the driver to pass the person operating the bicycle or
electric low-speed scooter safely and avoid interference with oncoming traffic.
This paragraph does not authorize driving on the left side of the center of the
roadway when otherwise prohibited under state law.
      (3)   The operator of a bicycle or electric low-speed scooter shall not
ride more than two abreast on a single highway lane unless operating on any
part of the roadway marked exclusively for bicycle use. Persons riding two
abreast shall not impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic.
   (C)   The operator of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
or
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle. (KRS 189.340(3))
   (D)   The operator of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon
the right only under conditions permitting the passing in safety, and not by
driving off the roadway unless the vehicle being passed is at a complete stop
and the passing may be made safely. (KRS 189.340(4))
   (E)   The operator of a vehicle may overtake, and, allowing sufficient
clearance, pass another vehicle proceeding in the same direction upon the left
or upon the right on a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width
for four or more lines of traffic when the movement can be made in safety. No
person shall drive off the pavement or upon the shoulder of the roadway in
overtaking or passing on the right.
   (F)   A person shall not drive a vehicle to the left side of the center of
the roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless the left side is clearly visible and free of oncoming traffic
for a sufficient distance ahead to permit overtaking and passing to be
completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In every
event the overtaking vehicle must return to the right-hand side of the roadway
before coming within 200 feet of any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction.
(KRS 189.340 (5)) Penalty, see §
70.99(A)
§ 71.11 TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   The Commissioner of Highways is authorized to determine those portions
of any highway where overtaking and passing or driving to the left of the
roadway would be especially hazardous and may by appropriate signs or markings
on the roadway indicate the beginning and end of these zones, and when the
signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily observant
person, every driver of a vehicle shall obey the directions thereof, except as
provided for in §
71.10(B)(2). (KRS 189.340(6))
   (B)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into three or more clearly
marked lanes for travel in one direction, the following additional rules shall
apply.
      (1)   A person shall drive a vehicle as nearly as may be practical
entirely within a single lane and shall not move from that lane until the
driver ascertains that the movement can be made with safety;
      (2)   A person shall not drive a vehicle in the center lane except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and
the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation
for a left turn or where a center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to
traffic moving in the direction in which the vehicle is proceeding and is
signposted to give notice of the allocation;
      (3)   A person shall not operate a truck tractor, trailer, or semitrailer
in the leftmost lane except when entering or leaving a highway, yielding to
traffic coming onto the highway, or when traffic conditions exist which would
prohibit safe use of the right or center lanes; and
      (4)   Official signs may be erected directing slow-moving traffic to use
a designated lane or allocating specified lanes to traffic moving in the same
direction and operators of vehicles shall obey the directions of these signs.
(KRS 189.340(7))
      (5)   On any limited access highway of four lanes or more with a posted
speed limit of at least 65 miles per hour, a person shall not operate a motor
vehicle in the leftmost lane, except when:
         (a)   Overtaking a slower vehicle;
         (b)   Yielding to traffic coming onto the highway; or
         (c)   Traffic or road conditions exist which would prohibit safe use
of the right or center lanes.
(KRS 189.340(8)) Penalty, see §
70.99(A)
§ 71.12 FOLLOWING VEHICLES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, the operator of a
motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely than is reasonable
and prudent, having regard for the speed of the vehicle and the traffic upon
and condition of the highway.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, the operator of
any motor truck, semitrailer truck, bus, or heavy construction equipment unit,
when traveling upon a highway outside of a business or residential district,
shall not follow within 250 feet of another such vehicle or equipment unit.
This division shall not prevent overtaking and passing, nor shall it apply to
any lane specially designated for use of motor trucks or semitrailer trucks,
buses or heavy construction equipment units.
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) of this section shall not apply to a trailing
commercial motor vehicle involved in a platoon as defined in §
71.10 of this chapter, but shall apply to the commercial motor vehicle leading
a platoon.
(KRS 189.340 (9)) Penalty, see §
70.99 (A)
§ 71.13 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   All funeral processions shall move upon and through the public streets
of the city, as expeditiously as possible, with due regard to custom and
traffic conditions and shall be led or piloted by the undertaker or by his or
her duly authorized agent or representative. Upon all vehicles in the funeral
procession furnished by the funeral director in charge, there shall be
displayed in a conspicuous manner a purple flag or pennant furnished by the
director in charge of the funeral, at least eight inches wide by 20 inches
long, with the word “funeral” running lengthwise in the center thereof in
letters at least three inches in height, and which letters shall be in black.
   (B)   The flag or pennant shall be fastened either to the radiator cap or to
the left front fender and extending above the hood of the car. All vehicles in
a funeral procession, including the lead or pilot car, shall have their
headlights burning from the starting point of the procession, continuously
until they reach the cemetery or the city limits.
      (1)   When a traffic light changes to "red" while a funeral procession is
passing through, the procession shall continue moving and cross-traffic shall
stop until the entire procession has passed the signal.
      (2)   No driver of a vehicle or bus shall drive between the vehicles
comprising a funeral or other authorized procession while they are in motion
and when the vehicles are conspicuously designated as required in this section.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
Penalty, see § 70.99(A)
§ 71.14 ASSISTANCE IN PASSING OR OVERTAKING.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle about to be overtaken and passed shall give
way to the right in favor of the overtaking vehicle if the overtaking vehicle
is a motor vehicle.
   (B)   In all cases of meeting, passing or overtaking of vehicles this
assistance shall be given by the operator and occupants of each vehicle,
respectively, to the other as the circumstances reasonably demand in order to
obtain clearance and avoid accidents.
(KRS 189.350)
Penalty, see § 70.99(A)
§ 71.15 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM MOVING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to board or alight, or be permitted to
board or alight, from a bus, trolley bus, train, or vehicle while the bus,
train, or vehicle is in motion.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
Penalty, see § 70.99(A)
§ 71.16 PASSING CARS RECEIVING OR DISCHARGING PASSENGERS.
   (A)   Whenever a car traveling upon rails placed in the center or
approximate center of a highway is stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging passengers, every operator of a vehicle approaching the car from
the rear and proceeding in the same direction shall bring his or her vehicle to
a full stop and shall not start up or attempt to pass until the car has
finished receiving or discharging passengers.
   (B)   Where safety isles of reasonable size are established, leaving space
between the track and the curb or edge of the highway sufficient for the
passage of traffic, overtaking vehicles shall pass between the isle and the
curb or edge of the highway, without observing division (A).
(KRS 189.360) Penalty, see §
70.99(A)
§ 71.17 PASSING STOPPED SCHOOL OR CHURCH BUS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Any school or church bus used in the transportation of children is
stopped upon a highway for the purpose of receiving or discharging passengers,
with the stop arm and signals activated, the operator of a vehicle approaching
from any direction shall bring his or her vehicle to a stop and shall not
proceed until the bus has completed receiving or discharging passengers and has
been put into motion. The stop requirement provided for in this section shall
not apply to vehicles approaching a stopped bus from the opposite direction
upon a highway of four or more lanes.
   (B)   Division (A) shall be applicable only when the bus displays the
markings and equipment required by state minimum specifications for school
buses.
   (C)   If any vehicle is witnessed to be in violation of division (A) above
and the identity of the operator is not otherwise apparent, it shall be a
rebuttable presumption that the person in whose name the vehicle is registered
or leased was the operator of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation
and is subject to the penalties as provided for in KRS 189.990(5).
(KRS 189.370) Penalty, see §
70.99(L)
§ 71.18 SCHOOL BUS STOP SIGNALING DEVICE; USE; STOPPING REGULATED.
   No school or church bus shall be licensed or operated for the transportation
of school children unless it is equipped with bus alternating flashing signal
lamps and a stop arm folding sign. The bus body shall be equipped with a system
of four red signal lamps, two on the front and two on the rear of the bus, and
four amber signal lamps. Each amber signal lamp shall be located near each red
signal lamp, at the same level, but closer to the vertical centerline of the
bus. The bus body shall be equipped with a stop arm folding sign on the
driver’s side with letters at least six inches in height displaying the word
“stop” on both sides. Prior to stopping the school bus for the purpose of
receiving or discharging school children the driver shall activate the amber
flashing signal lamps. Once the bus comes to a complete stop, the driver shall
extend the stop arm and activate the red flashing signal lights prior to
opening the door so it shall be plainly visible to traffic approaching from
both directions that the bus is in the process of receiving or discharging
passengers. No driver shall stop a school or church bus for receiving or
discharging passengers in a no-passing zone which does not afford reasonable
visibility to approaching motor vehicles from both directions unless a “School
Bus Stop Ahead” sign has been installed a reasonable distance before that spot
in the roadway. No driver shall stop a school or church bus for the purpose of
receiving passengers from or discharging passengers to the opposite side of the
road on a highway of four or more lanes. This provision does not prohibit the
discharging of passengers at a marked pedestrian crossing.
(KRS 189.375) Penalty, see §
70.99(M)
§ 71.19 SIGNALS.
   (A)   A person shall not turn a vehicle or move right or left upon a roadway
until the movement can be made with reasonable safety nor without giving an
appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
   (B)   A signal indicating the intention to turn right or left shall be given
continuously for not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the motor vehicle
before the turn.
   (C)   A bus driver shall not stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a
vehicle without first giving an appropriate signal to traffic following the
bus.
   (D)   All signals required for a motor vehicle shall be given by signal
lamps or mechanical signal devices.
   (E)   A signal required for a vehicle that is not a motor vehicle may be
given by either hand signals, signal lamps, or mechanical signal devices. The
signal shall be given intermittently for the last 50 feet traveled by the
vehicle before the turn.
   (F)   Hand signals shall be executed in the following manner when operating
a vehicle that is not a motor vehicle:
      (1)   The hand and arm shall be extended horizontally from the left side
of the vehicle to indicate a left turn;
      (2)   The arm shall be extended horizontally from the left or right side
of the vehicle with the hand and arm extended upward from the elbow to indicate
a right turn;
      (3)   The arm shall be extended horizontally with the hand and arm
extended downward from the elbow from the left side of the vehicle to indicate
a stop or decrease in speed.
(KRS 189.380) Penalty, see §
70.99(A)
§ 71.20 SPEED; PARKING.
   (A)   An operator of a vehicle upon a highway shall not drive at a greater
speed than is reasonable and prudent, having regard for the traffic and for the
condition and use of the highway.
   (B)   The speed limit for motor vehicles on state highways shall be as
follows, unless conditions exist that require a lower speed limit for
compliance with division (A) above, or the Secretary of the Transportation
Cabinet establishes a different speed limit in accordance with division (C) of
this section:
      (1)   Sixty-five miles per hour on interstate highways and parkways;
      (2)   Fifty-five miles per hour on all other state highways; and
      (3)   Thirty-five miles per hour in a business or residential district.
   (C)   (1)   If the Secretary of Transportation determines, upon the basis of
an engineering and traffic investigation, that any speed limit is greater or
less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found to exist at any
intersection, or upon any part of a state highway within or without the
corporate limits of a city, the Secretary of Transportation may establish by
official order a reasonable and safe speed limit at the location. The Secretary
shall not increase any speed limit established by division (B) of this section
in excess of 65 miles per hour, except that, notwithstanding the provisions of
division (B)(1) of this section, the Secretary may increase the speed limit to
70 miles per hour on any of the segments of highway listed in KRS 189.390(4)
(a)1. through 16.
      (2)   In a highway work zone, the Transportation Cabinet may temporarily
reduce established speed limits without an engineering or traffic
investigation. A speed limit established under this subdivision shall become
effective when and where posted. The Transportation Cabinet shall post signs
notifying the traveling public of the temporary highway work zone maximum speed
limit. Nothing in the subdivision shall be construed to prevent the
Transportation Cabinet from using moveable or portable speed limit signs in
highway work zones.
   (D)   (1)   A city or county may by ordinance establish speed limits within
its own jurisdiction, except as provided in division (D)(2) of this section.
      (2)   The alteration of speed limits on state highways within a city or a
county shall not be effective until the alteration has been approved by the
Secretary of Transportation. The Secretary shall not approve any alteration
that could increase any speed limit established by division (B) of this section
in excess of 55 miles per hour.
      (3)   If a county determines, upon the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation and study, that it is unsafe to park motor vehicles on or
along any highway, other than a state highway, within the unincorporated areas
of the county, or that in any business district the congestion of traffic
justifies a reasonable limitation on the length of time any one motor vehicle
is permitted to park in such district so as to reduce the congestion, the
fiscal court may by ordinance establish "no parking" areas on the highway, or
limit the length of time any motor vehicle may be parked in any business
district.
   (E)   The speed limit for motor vehicles in an off-street parking facility
offered for public use, whether publicly or privately owned, shall be 15 miles
per hour.
   (F)   A person shall not drive a motor vehicle at a speed that will impede
or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic except when reduced
speed is necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law.
   (G)   In every charge for a violation of any speed limit specified in this
section, the warrant or citation shall specify the speed at which the defendant
is alleged to have driven, and the lawful speed limit applicable at the
location where the violation is charged to have occurred.
(KRS 189.390)
Penalty, see § 70.99(A), (N))
§ 71.21 RESERVED.
§ 71.22 EMERGENCY VEHICLES EXCEPTED.
   Section
71.20 shall not apply to emergency vehicles while being operated under the
provisions of §§
71.05 through
71.08,
72.04, and
72.05.
(KRS 189.392)
§ 71.23 TURNING AROUND ON CURVE OR GRADE.
   No vehicle shall be turned around upon any curve, or upon the approach to,
or near the crest of a grade, unless it can be seen for a distance of 500 feet
by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from either direction.
(KRS 189.400)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 71.24 [REPEALED].
§ 71.25 COASTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The driver of a motor vehicle when traveling upon a down-grade shall
not coast with the gears of the vehicle in neutral.
   (B)   The driver of a commercial motor vehicle when traveling upon a
downgrade shall not coast with the clutch disengaged.
(KRS 189.430 (1) and (2))
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 71.26 UNATTENDED VEHICLE.
   No person operating or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition and removing
the key, nor allow it to stand upon any perceptible grade without effectively
setting the brake and turning the front wheels to the curb or side of the
highway.
(KRS 189.430 (3))
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 71.27 TAMPERING WITH VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person except members of the police department,
fire department, or the department of works while in the performance of duties,
to move any vehicle not his own, or to tamper with a vehicle in any manner
whatsoever, except to clear the roadway. No person other than the owner or the
operator shall deposit any advertising matter in any vehicle, or stick or
otherwise fasten any advertising matter on any part of any vehicle.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21- 54)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 71.28 STARTING A PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle that is stopped or parked unless and until
the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(KRS 189.440)
§ 71.29 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the director of works.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, or building or lot and across a sidewalk,
or its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension and
upon entering the roadway from any alley, driveway or building he shall yield
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. The operator of any
vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley from the roadway
may do so at low speed and with caution.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (H)
§ 71.30 STOPPING, STANDING OR REPAIRING VEHICLE ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   No person shall stop a vehicle, leave it standing or cause it to stop
or be left standing upon any portion of the roadway. However, this section
shall not be construed to prevent parking in front of a private residence off
the roadway or street in a city or suburban area where this parking is
otherwise permitted. These provisions shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   A vehicle that has been disabled on the right-of-way of such a
highway in such a manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid the
occupation of the shoulder of a state maintained highway, or impracticable to
remove it from the shoulder of the highway until repairs have been made or
sufficient help obtained for its removal. In no event shall a disabled vehicle
remain on the shoulder of a state maintained highway for 24 hours or more;
      (2)   Motor vehicles when required to stop in obedience to state law or
any traffic ordinance, regulation or sign or the command of any peace officer;
      (3)   Vehicles operating as common carriers of passengers for hire and
school buses taking passengers on such vehicle or discharging passengers,
provided that no vehicle shall stop for these purposes at a place on the
highway which does not afford reasonable visibility to approaching motor
vehicles from both directions; or
      (4)   Vehicles which are stopped for a period of not more than 15 minutes
at a time for the purpose of collecting and transporting solid waste as defined
in KRS 224.1-010(30)(a), and which are operated by a:
         (a)   Collection service registered in accordance with KRS 224.43-315;
or
         (b)   Person or organization actively participating in the Adopt-a-
Highway Program; or
      (5)   Any vehicle required to stop by reason of an obstruction to its
progress.
   (B)   When any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of this section, he may move or cause to be moved the vehicle, or
require the operator or other person in charge of the vehicle to move it. The
police officer may cause the vehicle to be removed by ordering any person
engaged in the business of storing or towing vehicles to remove the vehicle to
a site chosen by such person. Ownership of the vehicle shall be determined by
the police officer's enforcement agency through the vehicle's license plates,
serial number, or other means of determining ownership. As soon as practicable,
the police officer's enforcement agency shall notify the owner by mail: that
the vehicle was illegally upon public property; the name and address of the
storage facility where the vehicle is located; that removal of the vehicle from
the storage facility will involve payment of towing and storage charges; and
that the vehicle may be sold pursuant to the provisions of KRS 376.275 if not
claimed within 60 days. No notification shall be required if ownership cannot
be determined. In the event of a sale pursuant to KRS 376.275, the state shall
receive any proceeds after the satisfaction of all liens placed on the vehicle.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be parked, stopped, or allowed to stand on the
shoulders of any toll road, interstate highway, or other fully controlled
access highway, including ramps thereto, nor shall any vehicle registered at a
gross weight of over 44,000 pounds be parked, stopped, or allowed to stand on
the shoulders of any state maintained highway except that in the case of
emergency, or in response to a peace officer's signal, vehicles shall be
permitted to stop on the shoulders to the right of the traveled way with all
wheels and projecting parts of the vehicles, including the load, completely
clear of the traveled way. Parking of any vehicle which is disabled on the
shoulders of a toll road, interstate highway, other fully controlled access
highway, including ramps thereto, or any state maintained highway not mentioned
in this section for 24 hours continuously is prohibited and vehicles violating
this provision may be towed away at the cost of the owner.
   (D)   When any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any bridge or
causeway or in a tunnel where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to
traffic, the officer may provide for the removal of the vehicle to the nearest
garage or other place of safety, as provided in division (B) above.
   (E)   No person shall stop or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic control device, in the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities.
      (3)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (4)   Within an intersection or on a crosswalk;
      (5)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking;
      (6)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign,
or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (7)   On any controlled access highway;
      (8)   Within a highway tunnel;
      (9)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant; or
      (10)   In an area between the roadways of a divided highway.
   (F)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area.
   (G)   The restrictions in division (D) (4) shall not apply to sheriffs and
their deputies when operating properly identified vehicles during performance
of their official duties.
(KRS 189.450)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 71.31 OBSTRUCTION TO OPERATOR'S VIEW OR CONTROL.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, exceeding three, as to obstruct
the view of the operator to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to
interfere with the operator’s control over the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle or street car shall ride in such a position
as to interfere with the operator’s view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere
with his or her control over the vehicle or street car.
(KRS 189.470) Penalty, see §
70.99(A)
§ 71.32 TOWED VEHICLES.
   No vehicle shall haul with a tow line more than one other vehicle. The tow
line shall not be over 15 feet in length, and a white cloth or flag shall be
fastened to the tow line at or near the center of the line, during both day and
night so as to make it plainly discernible. No vehicle shall at one time haul
more than two vehicles connected in such a manner as to keep them uniformly
spaced.
(KRS 189.480) Penalty, see §
70.99(A)
§ 71.33 RESERVED.
§ 71.34 OFF-ROAD VEHICLES.
   No person shall operate an off-road vehicle on any private or public
property without the consent of the landowner, tenant, or governmental agency
responsible for the property.
(KRS 189.860 (2))
Penalty, see § 70.99(L)
§ 71.35 BROKEN GLASS, NAILS, ETC., ON ROADWAY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to remove any wrecked vehicle without removing
broken glass or debris from the roadway.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave, throw or deposit upon
any street any glass bottles, glass, nails, tacks, hoops, wires, cans, or any
other substances likely to injure any person, animal or vehicle.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54) Penalty, see §
70.99(O)
§ 71.36 LOGS OR STONES NOT TO BE DRAGGED ON HIGHWAY.
   No person shall draw upon a highway of the city any logs or stones with the
ends dragged on the ground, so as to injure the highway.
(KRS 189.500)
Penalty, see § 70.99(P)
§ 71.37 MOTOR VEHICLE RACES ON HIGHWAYS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall engage upon any street or highway of the city in motor
vehicle racing, drag racing, or any other form of competition involving motor
vehicles, except racing events permitted under KRS 189.503.
(KRS 189.505) Penalty, see §
70.99(Q)
§ 71.38 HORSE RACE ON HIGHWAY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall ride a horse, nor shall the owner of a horse consent to the
racing of his or her horse, in a horse race on a highway.
(KRS 189.510) Penalty, see §
70.99(R)
§ 71.39 OPERATING VEHICLE UNDER INFLUENCE OF INTOXICANTS OR DRUGS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person under the influence of intoxicating beverages or any drug
which may impair one's driving ability shall operate a vehicle that is not a
motor vehicle anywhere in this city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle anywhere in this city while
under the influence of intoxicating beverages or any drug which may impair
one's driving ability.
   (C)   No peace officer shall fail to enforce rigidly this section.
(KRS 189.520 (1), (2) and (3))
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A), (S)
§ 71.40 PRESUMPTIONS CONCERNING INTOXICATION.
   (A)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of §
71.39(A) and (B), wherein the defendant is charged with having operated a
vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating beverages, the amount of
alcohol in the defendant’s blood, as determined at the time of making a
chemical analysis of his or her blood, urine, breath, or other bodily
substance, shall give rise to the following presumptions:
      (1)   If there was 0.05% or less by weight of alcohol in the blood, it
shall be presumed that the defendant was not under the influence of
intoxicating beverages;
      (2)   If there was more than 0.05%, but less than 0.10% by weight of
alcohol in the blood, this fact shall not constitute a presumption that the
defendant either was or was not under the influence of intoxicating beverages,
but such fact may be considered, together with other competent evidence in
determining the guilt or innocence of the defendant;
      (3)   If there was 0.10% or more by weight of alcohol in the blood, it
shall be presumed that the defendant was under the influence of intoxicating
beverages.
   (B)   Division (A) shall not be construed as limiting the introduction of
any other competent evidence bearing upon the question of whether the defendant
was under the influence of intoxicating beverages.
   (C)   No person may be compelled to submit to any test specified in division
(A), but his or her refusal to submit to the test shall subject him to the
penalties provided by state law.
   (D)   Only a physician, registered nurse or qualified medical technician,
duly licensed in Kentucky, acting at the request of the arresting officer can
withdraw any blood of any person submitting to a chemical test under this
section or KRS 186.565.
   (E)   The person tested shall be permitted to have a duly licensed physician
of his or her own choosing administer a chemical test in addition to the one
administered at the direction of the police officer.
(KRS 189.520)
§ 71.41 RENTING MOTOR VEHICLE TO DRUNK OR DRUG ADDICT PROHIBITED.
   No person shall let a motor vehicle to another to operate upon a highway,
knowing that the other person is in an intoxicated condition, or under the
influence of drugs.
(KRS 189.530)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (T)
§ 71.42 RAILROAD CROSSINGS.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle shall stop and remain standing at a railroad
grade crossing when any of the following conditions exist:
      (1)   A visible electric or mechanical signal device warns of the
immediate approach or passage of a railroad train;
      (2)   A crossing gate is lowered warning of the immediate approach or
passage of a railroad train;
      (3)   An approaching train is visible and in hazardous proximity; or
      (4)   A human flagman signals the approach or passage of a train.
   (B)   In addition to division (A) of this section, a person who holds or is
required to hold a CDL as defined in 281A.010 and is driving a commercial motor
vehicle shall:
         (1)   Slow down and check that the railroad tracks are clear of an
approaching train;
         (2)   Stop and remain standing at a railroad grade crossing if the
railroad tracks are not clear;
         (3)   Maintain sufficient space to drive completely through the
railroad grade crossing without stopping; and
         (4)   Negotiate a railroad grade crossing only with sufficient
undercarriage clearance.
   (C)   Whenever the tracks of any railroad or interurban railway over which
trains or cars are regularly operated cross a state maintained highway at
grade, the city may designate that crossing as "unsafe," and no operator of any
vehicle shall cross the crossing without first bringing his or her vehicle to a
full stop no closer than a marked stop line or 15 feet, nor more than 30 feet,
from the nearest rail of the tracks.
   (D)   At crossings designated “unsafe,” the city shall place and maintain on
each side of the tracks on the right side of the highway, at the marked
stopping position or if the stopping position is not marked, on the pavement
not more than 25 feet in advance of the track an octagonal shape sign of a type
and size currently approved for use bearing the word “Stop” in white letters
not less than ten inches in height.
   (E)   The cabinet shall install the signs described in division (D), within
60 days after the crossing is designated unsafe.
   (F)   Divisions (C), (D) and (E) shall not apply to grade crossings at which
have been constructed and maintained gates, electric warning signals, or other
automatic audible signals, or which are protected by watchmen.
   (G)   The failure to observe divisions (C) to (F) shall not change the
liability of any railroad or interurban railway in the trial of any civil case
against the railroad or interurban railway for death or injuries to person or
property.
   (H)   If division (G) is declared unconstitutional, then divisions (C) to
(H) shall be ineffective.
(KRS 189.560)
   (I)   When any locomotive or cars propelled by a steam, diesel engine, or
any other motive power shall cross a street or alley within the city where the
street or alley crosses the railroad at the same level, it shall give timely
warning of its approach by the ringing of its bell, or in the case of imminent
danger the sounding of its whistle. The provisions of this section shall not
apply at crossings where safety gates are provided or a watchperson is
stationed, except in the case of eminent danger.
(Ord. 89-22, passed 12-23-89) Penalty, see §
70.99(A),(M),(HH))
§ 71.43 SCHOOL AND CHURCH BUSES TO STOP AT RAILROAD CROSSINGS.
   Operators of all buses and motor vehicles used for transporting children
shall stop their vehicles before crossing any railroad when tracks are at the
same level of the roadway. The stop shall be made not less than 15 feet nor
more than 50 feet from the nearest track over which the highway crosses, except
where the crossing is protected by gates or a flagman employed by the railroad.
After making the stop, the operator shall open the service door and carefully
look in each direction and listen for approaching trains or other on-track
equipment before proceeding. If visibility is impaired at the required distance
for stopping under this section, the operator may allow the vehicle to slowly
roll forward for the purpose of gaining the visibility necessary to safely
cross the railroad tracks.
(KRS 189.550) Penalty, see §
70.99(A)
§ 71.44 VEHICLES CARRYING INFLAMMABLE LIQUIDS STOP AT RAILROAD CROSSINGS.
   The operator of any motor vehicle used in the transportation of inflammable
liquids or explosives shall stop such motor vehicle before crossing at grade
the main track of any railroad or interurban electric railway, except where the
crossing is a guarded crossing protected by gates or a flag controlled crossing
or operated by an employee of the railroad or inter-urban company. The stop
shall be made no closer than a marked stop line or 15 feet, nor more than 30
feet, from the nearest track to be crossed. After making the stop, the operator
shall look carefully in each direction and shall not start his or her vehicle
until he or she has ascertained that no cars, trains, or other on-track
equipment are approaching in either direction.
(KRS 189.565) Penalty, see §
70.99(U)(1)
§ 71.45 DRIVING ON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven on the left side of the roadway under the
following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching or upon the crest of a grade or a curve in the
highway where the operator's view is obstructed within such distance as to
create a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing;
      (3)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct or tunnel.
   (B)   The foregoing limitations shall not apply upon a one-way roadway; nor
when an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left of the
center of the highway; provided any person so doing shall yield the right-of-
way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the unobstructed
portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an immediate
hazard; nor to the operator of a vehicle turning left into or from an alley,
private road, or driveway.
(KRS 189.345) Penalty, see §
70.99(A)
§ 71.46 VEHICLE OPERATOR TO YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any public
safety vehicle, as defined in KRS 189.910, or any pedestrian or worker,
including utility worker, actually engaged in work in a highway work zone as
defined in KRS 189.010.
   (B)   The operator of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any public
safety vehicle obviously and actually engaged in work upon a highway whenever
such vehicle displays flashing lights meeting the requirements of KRS 189.920
(4).
   (C)   The operator of a vehicle shall stay in a designated lane reserved for
traffic in a highway work zone.
(KRS 189.960) Penalty, see §
70.99(A)
DUTY IN EVENT OF ACCIDENT; REPORTS
§ 71.50 RESERVED.
§ 71.51 VEHICLE ACCIDENT REPORTS BY OPERATORS, LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS AND
AGENCIES.
   (A)   Any person operating a vehicle on the highways of this city who is
involved in an accident resulting in fatal or non-fatal personal injury to any
person or damage to the vehicle rendering the vehicle inoperable shall be
required to immediately notify a police officer. In the event the operator
fails to notify or is incapable of notifying a police officer, the
responsibility shall rest with the owner of the vehicle or any occupant of the
vehicle at the time of the accident. A police officer shall investigate the
accident and file a written report of the accident with the Police Department.
   (B)   (1)   The Police Department whose officers investigate a vehicle
accident of which a report must be made as required in this chapter shall file
a report of the accident with the Department of Kentucky State Police within
ten days after investigation of the accident upon forms supplied by the
Department.
      (2)   The Police Department may retain a copy of the reports that the
Police Department is required to submit to the Department of Kentucky State
Police under division (B)(1) above. Reports retained by the Police Department
shall not be considered open records under KRS 61.870 to 61.884 and shall
remain confidential, except as provided herein. Nothing in this division (B) is
intended to impose greater limitations on disclosure of vehicle accident
reports on the Police Department than those imposed on the Department of
Kentucky State Police under by KRS 189.635.
   (C)   Any person operating a vehicle on the highways of this city who is
involved in an accident resulting in any property damage exceeding $500 in
which an investigation is not conducted by a police officer shall file a
written report of the accident with the Department of Kentucky State Police
within ten days of occurrence of the accident upon forms provided by the
Department of Kentucky State Police.
   (D)   (1)   All accident reports filed with the Department of Kentucky State
Police in compliance with division (C) above shall not be considered open
records under KRS 61.870 to 61.884 and shall remain confidential except that
the Department of Kentucky State Police may:
         (a)   Disclose the identity of a person involved in an accident when
his or her identity is not otherwise known or when he or she denies his or her
presence at an accident; and
         (b)   Make the reports available:
            1.   To the persons named in division (D)(3) of this section; and
            2.   In accordance with subsection KRS 189.635(9).
      (2)   All other accident reports required by this section, and the
information contained in the reports, shall be confidential and exempt from
public disclosure under KRS 61.870 to 61.884, except when:
         (a)   Produced pursuant to a properly executed subpoena or court
order; or
         (b)   Disclosed as provided in this section.
      (3)   Accident reports shall be made available to:
         (a)   The parties to the accident;
         (b)   The parents or guardians of a minor who is party to the
accident;
         (c)   Insurers or their written designee for insurance business
purposes of any party who is the subject of the report;
         (d)   The attorneys of the parties to the accident;
         (e)   Any party to litigation who files with the Department of
Kentucky State Police a request for the report and includes a copy of the first
page of a District or Circuit Court clerk-stamped complaint naming all parties;
         (f)   The Department of Workplace Standards in the Education and Labor
Cabinet if the accident report is pertinent to an occupational safety and
health investigation; and
         (g)   A law enforcement agency, subject to the limitations in division
(B)(2) above and KRS 189.635(7).
(KRS 189.635) Penalty, see §
70.99(V)
§ 71.52 DUTY IN CASE OF ACCIDENT.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of any vehicle whose vehicle, vehicle load, or
vehicle equipment is involved in an accident resulting in injury to or death of
any person or resulting only in damage to a vehicle or other property which is
driven or attended by any person shall immediately stop and ascertain the
extent of the injury or damage and render reasonable assistance, including the
carrying, or making of arrangements for the carrying, of such person to a
physician, surgeon, or hospital for medical or surgical treatment is apparent
that the treatment is necessary, or if the carrying is requested by the injured
person. The operator or person having or assuming authority of the operator, or
ownership of the vehicle, shall give the occupant of the vehicle, or person
struck, if requested, the registration number of the vehicle, if any, and also
the names and addresses of the owner, the occupants and operator. The total
names need not exceed five in number.
      (2)   If an accident occurs on an interstate highway or parkway or any
on-ramp or off-ramp thereto does not involve death, known or visible injury, or
the transportation of hazardous material, the operator shall move the vehicle
off the roadway to a place as close to the accident scene as practicable
without obstructing traffic as soon as the vehicle can be moved without the
risk of further injury or damage. The operator or person having or assuming
authority of the operator, or ownership of the vehicle, shall give the other
person involved in the accident, if requested, the registration number of the
vehicle, if any, and also the names and addresses of the owner, occupants, and
the operator of his or her vehicle, and insurance information for the vehicle.
   (B)   The operator of any vehicle which collides with or is involved in an
accident with any vehicle or other property which is unattended resulting in
any damage to the other vehicle or property shall immediately stop as close to
the accident scene as practicable without obstructing traffic and shall then
and there either locate and notify the operator or owner of the vehicle or
other property of his or her name, address and the registration number of the
vehicle he or she is driving or shall attach securely in a conspicuous place in
or on the vehicle or other property a written notice giving his or her name,
address and the registration number of the vehicle he or she is driving, or
shall file a report with the Police Department.
   (C)   If the operator of a vehicle is unable to move a vehicle off the
roadway under the provisions of divisions (1) and (2) above, the operator or
owner may permit any person who possesses a valid operator’s license or proper
class of commercial driver’s license to move the vehicle as provided in this
section.
   (D)   Except as provided for in division (E) of this section, a peace
officer or safety officer may remove or cause to be removed from the roadway of
an interstate highway or parkway or any on-ramp or off-ramp thereto, without
consent of the owner or operator, any vehicle, cargo, or other property which
is obstructing the roadway, creating or aggravating an emergency situation, or
otherwise endangering public safety. Any vehicle, cargo, or other property
obstructing the roadway of an interstate highway or parkway shall be removed by
the most expeditious means available to clear the obstruction, giving due
regard to the protection of the property removed.
   (E)   (1)   In accidents that involve fatalities or known or visible
injuries, the removal provisions of division (D) above shall apply only after
all medical assistance, fire supervision and site investigation have been
completed.
      (2)   The removal provisions of division (D) above shall not apply if an
accident involves, or is believed to involve, a release of hazardous materials.
   (F)   (1)   The operator of a vehicle involved in an accident on a highway
in this state which results in a fatality or a known or visible injury to a
person or damage to a vehicle which renders the vehicle inoperable shall
immediately notify a public safety answering point, law enforcement agency, or
law enforcement officer having jurisdiction if the operator is physically
capable of doing so and has in his or her possession a functioning
communications device with which to do so.
      (2)   In the event an operator fails to notify or is incapable of
notifying a public safety answering point, law enforcement agency, or law
enforcement officer having jurisdiction, the responsibility for reporting the
accident within a reasonable amount of time shall rest with the owner of the
vehicle or any occupant of the vehicle at the time of the accident if the owner
or occupant is physically capable of doing so, has in his or her possession a
functioning communication device with which to do so, and, in the case of the
owner, knows of the motor vehicle accident. A law enforcement officer having
jurisdiction shall investigate the accident and file a written report with the
officer’s agency.
   (G)   The operator of a vehicle involved in an accident on a highway in this
state resulting in injury to or death of any person or in which total property
damage of $500 or more is sustained, and in which an investigation is not
conducted by a law enforcement officer, shall file a written report of the
accident with the Department of State Police, within 10 days of the occurrence
of the accident upon forms provided by the Department.
   (H)   Any agency, including the Commonwealth, that removes property from the
roadway may intervene in any civil action arising from the accident to recover
any costs expended. An owner of real property shall not be liable for the costs
of removal under this section of trees, fences, structures or other debris
which fall into the roadway as a result of fire, severe weather, or other
casualty.
(KRS 189.580)
PROHIBITED PRACTICES
§ 71.60 SELLING FROM VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether licensed as a peddler or not,
to demonstrate, sell or offer for sale from any vehicle upon any street within
a congested or closely built up portion of the city, except at authorized
market stands, any goods, wares, or merchandise.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (H)
§ 71.61 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to park it on any
street for the purpose of displaying it for sale, or to park any vehicle on any
street within the business district, on which vehicle demonstrations are made,
or from which merchandise is sold, except in officially designated market
places.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (H)
RECKLESS DRIVING AND SPEED CONTEST EXHIBITIONS
§ 71.70 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “BURNOUT.” A maneuver performed while operating a vehicle whereby the
vehicle is kept stationary, or is in motion, while the wheels are spun,
resulting in friction which causes the vehicle’s tires to heat up and emit
smoke.
   “DOUGHNUT.” A maneuver performed while operating a vehicle whereby the front
or rear of the vehicle is rotated around the opposite set of wheels in a
continuous motion which may cause a circular skid-mark pattern of rubber on the
driving surface or the tires to heat up and emit smoke from friction, or both.
   “DRIFTING.” A maneuver performed while operating a motor vehicle whereby the
vehicle is steered so that it makes a controlled skid sideways through a turn
with the front wheels pointed in a direction opposite to that of the turn.
   “PUBLIC WAY.” The entire width between property lines of every way,
dedicated pass way, road, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle
paths and foot paths.
   “RECKLESS DRIVING EXHIBITION.” To perform or engage in any burnouts,
doughnuts, drifting, wheelies, or other dangerous vehicle activity on a street.
   “STOPPING.” To stop a vehicle longer than is actually necessary to receive
or discharge passengers.
   “STREET.” Every public road, interstate highway, avenue, alley, or
boulevard, bridge, viaduct or trestle and the approaches to them and includes
off-street parking facilities offered for public use, whether publicly or
privately owned, except for-hire parking facilities listed in KRS 189.700.
   “VEHICLE” or “MOTOR VEHICLE.” Every device in, on or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn on any street except devices moved
by human power or used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks, which vehicle
does not travel more than live miles from the boundaries of Jefferson County.
   “VEHICLE SPEED CONTEST.” A vehicle race against another vehicle, a clock or
other timing device.
   “WHEELIE.” A maneuver performed while operating a vehicle whereby a vehicle
is ridden for a distance with the front wheel or wheels raised off of the
ground.
(Ord. 23-03, Series 2023, passed 7-11-23)
§ 71.71 VEHICLE SPEED CONTESTS AND RECKLESS DRIVING EXHIBITIONS PROHIBITED.
   No vehicle shall be used in a vehicle speed contest or a reckless driving
exhibition on any street within the city.
(Ord. 23-03, Series 2023, passed 7-11-23)
§ 71.72 COORDINATING OR PROMOTING VEHICLE SPEED CONTESTS AND RECKLESS DRIVING
EXHIBITIONS.
   A person shall not coordinate through social media or otherwise, encourage
persons to gather, or collect moneys at any location, for any such vehicle
speed contest or reckless driving exhibition.
(Ord. 23-03, Series 2023, passed 7-11-23)
§ 71.73 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS.
   No vehicle shall be used in any manner to obstruct or act as a barricade or
obstruction on any street in the city for the purposes of facilitating, aiding,
or abetting or otherwise as an incident to any vehicle speed contest or
reckless driving exhibition.
(Ord. 23-03, Series 2023, passed 7-11-23)
§ 71.74 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The provisions of shall be enforced by any officer of the city police
department.
   (B)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Impoundment at the seene. Any city police officer shall be
permitted to immediately seize and impound a vehicle for a violation of this
chapter based on video surveillance, photographs, the official’s personal
observation and/or the sworn testimony by one or more eyewitnesses when the
vehicle is located at the time of the violation or immediately thereafter. The
city police department may impound a motor vehicle used in a violation of the
provisions of this chapter for a period of six months. The length of
impoundment imposed may be decreased by the police department executive command
staff of the police department during an appeal under this subchapter. Any
release of any impounded vehicle under this section shall also meet the release
requirements of this subchapter. The city police department executive command
staff should evaluate all relevant factors when considering a modification to
the impoundment period, including but not limited to the following:
         (a)   Whether any property was damaged, or persons harmed in
connection with the offense; and
         (b)   Whether this is a first offense or a subsequent offense.
      (2)   In addition to impoundment at the scene, any city police officer
shall be permitted to seize and impound a motor vehicle after a violation of
this subchapter, provided that the requirements of this division (B) are met.
Before any seizure or impoundment under this division (B), the authorized
official shall send to the owner of record of the vehicle to be seized and
impounded, either by first class mail or by personal service to the address of
the owner of record as indicated in state registration records, a notice of
intent to seize and impound the vehicle that includes: (i) a statement that the
city has evidence sufficient to establish probable cause that an operator of
the vehicle violated this chapter and the nature of such evidence; (ii) a copy
of the police report that contains the source of the evidence for the
violation; (iii) a copy of this subchapter; (iv) the date, approximate time and
approximate location of the alleged violation; (v) a detailed description of
the vehicle, including any identifying information; and (vi) notice of the
owner’s opportunity to contest eligibility for impoundment. A copy of the
notice shall be forwarded to the chief of police. A notice is presumed
delivered upon being deposited with the United States Postal Service with
proper postage affixed.
(Ord. 23-03, Series 2023, passed 7-11-23)
§ 71.75 APPEALS.
   (A)   An owner of record who has had a vehicle impounded at the scene, or
who receives a notice under §
71.74(B)(2) for the impoundment of a vehicle, may contest eligibility for
impoundment by written request delivered to the chief of police, postmarked
within 14 days after the delivery of the notice. The hearing shall be conducted
within ten business days of the date of the request, unless the owner or other
person entitled to possession waives the limitation or the city shows good
cause for such delay. The city of shall retain possession of the vehicle
pending the hearing, unless the owner or other person claiming right of
possession posts a bond in an amount equal to the fines and fees accrued as of
the date of the hearing request, or $2,500, whichever is greater.
   (B)   The chief of police shall set a date for a hearing before the police
department executive command staff on the eligibility of the vehicle for
impoundment and shall notify the owner of the date, time, and place of the
hearing.
      (1)   At the hearing, the city’s evidence of probable cause shall be
considered prima facie correct. In order to disprove the motor vehicle’s
eligibility for impoundments the owner of record must prove that: (i) at the
time and date of the alleged violation as described in the notice, the
described vehicle was not operated at the location of the alleged violation; or
(ii) at the time and date of the alleged violation, the vehicle had been
reported stolen. The vehicle owner shall be allowed the opportunity to present
relevant evidence and question witnesses at the hearing. The written decision
of the majority of the Police Department executive command staff shall be made
in writing.
      (2)   At the hearing, after consideration of the evidence, the Police
Department executive command staff shall determine whether the impoundment was
valid and reasonable by a vote of a majority of its members. Where it has not
been established that the impoundment was justified, an order releasing the
vehicle shall be entered. All fines and fees paid, or amounts posted as bond
because of the impoundment of the vehicle shall be returned. Where it has been
established that the impoundment was justified, the Chief of Police shall
uphold the impoundment and condition the release of the vehicle upon payment of
a $1,000 fine and all impoundment fees accruing thereto. If bond has been
posted as security for release of the vehicle, said bond shall be forfeited to
the city. Any fines or fees in excess of the amount of the bond posted shall be
ordered to be paid by the owner of the vehicle to the city. The Chief of Police
shall furnish the owner or person appearing on the owner’s behalf with a copy
of the order within five days of the hearing.
      (3)   Any person who refuses or, except for good cause as determined by
the Chief of Police, fails to appear at the time and place set for the hearing
shall be deemed to have conceded on his or her and the owner’s behalf the
validity of the impoundment. In this event, the citation issued shall be deemed
a final order determining that the violation was committed and imposing the
civil fine as set forth in the citation, and the person shall be deemed to have
waived the right to appeal the final order to Jefferson District Court.
      (4)   Before the release of a vehicle pursuant to this subchapter, the
owner or other person entitled to possession must establish proof of ownership
or right to possession. The city may require reasonable security, bond, or
other assurances of indemnification from a person who is not the registered
owner of the vehicle prior to releasing the vehicle.
      (5)   An appeal from the Police Department executive command staff’s
determination that impoundment was justified may be made to the Civil Division
of Jefferson District Court within 30 days of the determination. The appeal
shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint and a copy of the Police
Department executive command staff’s order in the same manner as any civil
action. The action shall be tried de novo and the burden shall be on the city
to establish that impoundment was justified. If the court finds that tine
impoundment was justified, the owner shall be ordered to pay all fees and fines
accruing as of the date of judgement. If the court finds that the impoundment
was not justified, the city shall be ordered to release the vehicle, if
applicable, and to return all fines and fees paid as a result of the
impoundment. The judgment of the Jefferson District Court may be appealed to
the Jefferson Circuit Court in accordance with the Rules of Civil Procedure.
      (6)   If a hearing has not been requested pursuant to this subchapter,
and a vehicle impounded by the city has not been claimed, notice shall be
mailed by certified mail to the registered owner, if known, and lien holders of
record, if any, affording the parties the right within ten days from the date
of notice to claim the vehicle or request a hearing pursuant to KRS 82.625. The
notice shall state that, if no hearing is requested, the vehicle shall be
deemed abandoned unless the charges thereon are paid within 45 days of the
certified mailing of the notice.
      (7)   Impoundment; escheat to the city if no response to notice.
         (a)   After 45 days from the date the impoundment period has
concluded, if no appeal is filed, or if an appeal is filed, 45 days from the
date of the conclusion of the impoundment period from a final order of the last
presiding administrative body or court with jurisdiction, an impounded vehicle
shall be deemed abandoned and the vehicle shall escheat to the city.
         (b)   If the vehicle is judged suitable for use, the city may obtain a
certificate of registration and ownership from the Jefferson County Clerk,
pursuant to KRS 186.020 and either use the vehicle for governmental purposes or
sell the vehicle at public auction to the highest bidder. If the vehicle is not
suitable for use it may be sold for its scrap or junk value.
         (c)   City lien on vehicles impounded. The city shall possess a lien
on all vehicles impounded pursuant to KRS 82.625 for all fines, penalties, and
towing, handling, and storage charges and fees imposed thereon. Such a lien
shall be superior to and have priority over all other liens thereupon.
         (d)   No effect on security interest in vehicle. Nothing in these
provisions shall otherwise affect the fights or obligations between the owner
of the vehicle and those persons who claim a security interest therein.
      (8)   Release of impounded vehicle; impoundment fees paid. Any vehicle
impounded under this section shall be held for a minimum of 72 hours. After 72
hours, the city may release the motor vehicle to the owner or other person
entitled to possession, and the city shall condition the release of a vehicle
impounded under this section, only upon:
         (a)   Payment of the citation amount in full or in part if by
agreement; and
         (b)   Payment of all towing, handling, impoundment, and storage
charges imposed.
         (c)   In addition to the release requirements imposed under this
section, a vehicle may be released to the owner or other person entitled to
possession, only upon proof of ownership or right to possession. The city may
require reasonable security, bond, or other assurances of indemnification from
a person who is not the registered owner of the vehicle prior to releasing the
vehicle to such person.
         (d)   The city, along with its employees, officials or agents, shall
not be held liable in any claim for loss or damages asserted by or action filed
by the registered owner, lessee, or other person legally entitled to possession
of the impounded vehicle when the vehicle has been properly impounded and/or
disposed of pursuant to this subchapter.
(Ord. 23-03, Series 2023, passed 7-11-23)
CHAPTER 72: EQUIPMENT
Section
   
72.01   Equipment of vehicle not to be a nuisance or menace
   
72.02   Time when lights must be on
   
72.03   Front lights; flashing lights
   
72.04   Lights on emergency vehicles
   
72.05   Types of vehicles allowed to use flashing lights
   
72.06   Flashing white or amber lights to warn of traffic hazard permitted
   
72.07   Rear, side, and clearance lights
   
72.08   Brake lights
   
72.09   Lights on vehicles in tow and projections
   
72.10   Motor vehicles to carry and use required flares or similar signals
   
72.11   Horns and other sound devices
   
72.12   Brakes
   
72.13   Steering device not to be defective
   
72.14   Windows to be unobstructed; display of American flag; windshield wipers
   
72.15   Mufflers; noise regulation
   
72.16   Smoke
   
72.17   Noise
   
72.18   Mirrors
   
72.19   Escaping contents
   
72.20   Certain cargoes to be covered
   
72.21   Vehicles transporting explosives to be marked; fire extinguishers
   
72.22   (Reserved)
   
72.23   Chains and lugs on wheels
   
72.24   Solid rubber tires
   
72.25   Maximum weight on iron and solid tires
   
72.26   Regrooved or recut tires prohibited; exceptions
   
72.27   Maximum weight permitted on highways
Slow-Moving Vehicles
   
72.30   Emblem required
   
72.31   Display of emblem
   
72.32   Regulations for mounting emblem
   
72.33   Uses where emblem not required
§ 72.01 EQUIPMENT OF VEHICLE NOT TO BE A NUISANCE OR MENACE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke, or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 72.02 TIME WHEN LIGHTS MUST BE ON.
   (A)   Headlamps, when required on a vehicle, shall be illuminated:
      (1)    During the period from 1/2 hour after sunset to 1/2 hour before
sunrise, and
      (2)   At such other times atmospheric conditions render visibility as low
as or lower than is ordinarily the case during that period.
   (B)   Provisions as to distances that lights must be visible refer to
visibility under ordinary atmospheric conditions.
(KRS 189.030)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 72.03 FRONT LIGHTS; FLASHING LIGHTS.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle other than a motorcycle or moped shall be equipped
with at least two headlamps with at least one on each side of the front of the
motor vehicle, which headlamps shall comply with the requirements and
limitations set forth in this section.
   (B)   Every motorcycle and moped shall be equipped with at least one and not
more than two headlamps which shall comply with the requirements and
limitations of this section.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, the headlamps or the auxiliary driving
lamps or the auxiliary passing lamp or combinations thereof on motor vehicles
other than a motorcycle or moped shall be so arranged that the driver may
control the selection between distribution of light projected to different
elevations, subject to the following requirements and limitations.
         (1)   There shall be an uppermost distribution of light, or composite
beam, so aimed and of such intensity as to reveal persons and vehicles at a
distance of at least 350 feet ahead for all conditions of loading.
         (2)   There shall be a lowermost distribution of light, or composite
beam, so aimed and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a
distance of at least 100 feet ahead; and on a straight level road under any
condition of loading none of the high-intensity portion of the beam shall be
directed to strike the eyes of an approaching driver.
         (3)   Every new motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle or moped,
registered in this state after January l, 1956, which has multiple-beam road-
lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator, which shall be
lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the headlamps is in
use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. The indicator shall be so designed and
located that when lighted it will be readily visible without glare to the
driver of the vehicle so equipped.
   (D)   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto during the times specified in §
72.02, the driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam,
directed high enough and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles
at a safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to the requirements and
limitations hereinafter set forth.
   (E)   Whenever a driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle within
500 feet, the driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam, so
aimed that the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming
driver. The lowermost distribution of light, or composite beam, specified in
division (C) (2) shall be deemed to avoid glare at all times, regardless of
road contour and loading.
   (F)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle follows another vehicle within 200
feet to the rear, except when engaged in the act of overtaking and passing, the
driver shall use a distribution of light permissible under §§
71.11 (B),
71.17 (A),
71.18, and
71.42 (C) other than the uppermost distribution of light specified in division
(C) (1) of this section.
   (G)   Headlights arranged to provide a single distribution of light not
supplemented by auxiliary driving lights shall be permitted on motor vehicles
manufactured and sold prior to May 30, 1939, in lieu of multiple-beam road-
lighting equipment, if the single distribution of light complies with the
following requirements and limitations.
      (1)   The headlights shall be so aimed that when the vehicle is not
loaded none of the high intensity portion of the light shall, at a distance of
25 feet ahead, project higher than a level of 5 inches below the level of the
center of the light from which it comes, and in no case higher than 42 inches
above the level on which the vehicle stands, at a distance of 75 feet ahead.
      (2)   The intensity shall be sufficient to reveal persons and vehicles at
a distance of at least 200 feet.
      (3)   Whenever the operator of a motor vehicle approaches an oncoming
vehicle within 500 feet, he shall use a distribution of light or composite beam
so aimed that the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming
driver. In no case shall the high intensity portion which is projected to the
left of the prolongation of the extreme left side of the vehicle be aimed
higher than the center of the lamp from which it comes at a distance of 25 feet
ahead, and in no case higher than a level of 42 inches above the level upon
which the vehicle stands at a distance of 75 feet ahead.
   (H)   Flashing lights are prohibited on all motor vehicles except as a means
for indicating a right or left turn or for the purpose of warning the operators
of other vehicles of the presence of a vehicular traffic hazard requiring the
exercise of unusual care in approaching, overtaking or passing.
   (I)   Except as provided in any regulations adopted pursuant to §
73.05, bicycles need have only one light in front which will reveal clearly
substantial objects at least 50 feet ahead.
(KRS 189.040)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 72.04 LIGHTS ON EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   All fire department, rescue squad or publicly owned emergency
management agency emergency vehicles and all ambulances shall be equipped with
one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating red lights, visible under normal
atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle,
and a siren, whistle, or bell, capable of emitting a sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than 500 feet. This equipment shall be
in addition to any other equipment required by the motor vehicle laws.
   (B)   All state, county, or municipal police vehicles and all sheriffs'
vehicles used as emergency vehicles shall be equipped with one or more
flashing, rotating, or oscillating blue lights, visible under normal
atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle,
and a siren, whistle, or bell, capable of emitting a sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than 500 feet. This equipment shall be
in addition to any other equipment required by the motor vehicle laws.
   (C)   By ordinance, the governing body of any city or county may direct that
the police or sheriffs' vehicles in that jurisdiction be equipped with a
combination of red and blue flashing, rotating, or oscillating lights.
   (D)   All public safety vehicles shall be equipped with one or more
flashing, rotating, or oscillating yellow lights, visible under normal
atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle.
Yellow flashing, rotating, or oscillating lights may also be used by vehicles
operated by mail carriers while on duty, funeral escort vehicles, and church
buses.
   (E)   All Department of Corrections vehicles used as emergency vehicles
shall be equipped with one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating blue
lights, visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet
to the front of the vehicle. The Department of Corrections vehicle shall not be
equipped with or use siren, whistle, or bell. The equipment prescribed by this
division shall be in addition to any other equipment required by motor vehicle
laws.
   (F)   (1)   If authorized by the legislative body of a county, urban-county,
charter county, consolidated local government, or unified local government;
         (a)   All publicly owned county jail and regional jail vehicles used
as emergency vehicles may be equipped with 1 or more flashing, rotating, or
oscillating blue lights, visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a
distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle; and
         (b)   An elected jailer or the chief administrator of a county or
regional jail not managed by an elected jailer may equip 1 personally owned
vehicle with 1 or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating blue lights, visible
under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
the vehicle.
      (2)   Publicly owned county jail or regional jail vehicles shall not be
equipped with or use a siren, whistle, or bell.
      (3)   The equipment prescribed by this subsection shall be in addition to
any other equipment required by the motor vehicle laws.
   (G)   Red flashing lights may be used by school buses.
   (H)   No emergency vehicle, public safety vehicle, or any other vehicle
covered by §§
71.05 through
71.08,
72.04, and
72.05 shall use any light of any other color than those specified by §§
71.05 through
71.08,
72.04, and
72.05. Sirens, whistles, and bells may not be used by vehicles other than those
specified by §§
71.05 through
71.08,
72.04, and
72.05, except that any vehicle may be equipped with a theft alarm signal device
which is so arranged that it cannot be used by the driver as an ordinary
warning signal.
   (I)   Vehicles used as command posts at incidents may be equipped with and
use when on scene, a green rotating, oscillating, or flashing light. This light
shall be in addition to the lights and siren required in this section.
   (J)   A personal vehicle used by a paid or volunteer firefighter, ambulance
personnel, or emergency services director who is responding to an emergency
shall display the lights required in division (A) of this section.
   (K)   An elected coroner may equip a publicly or privately owned motor
vehicle, or both with flashing, rotating, or oscillating red and blue lights
and a siren meeting the requirements of this section solely for the purpose of
responding to a report of the death of a human being subject to the following
terms and conditions:
      (1)   The coroner makes a written request to the legislative body of the
county, urban-county, charter county, consolidated local government, or unified
local government in which the coroner was elected to equip a publicly or
privately owned motor vehicle, or both, with flashing, rotating, or oscillating
red and blue lights and a siren meeting the requirements of this section, and
that request is approved by the legislative body by ordinance or by court
order;
      (2)   The coroner may use the lights and siren only while responding to
the scene of the report of a death of a human being and shall not, KRS 189.940
to the contrary notwithstanding, exceed the posted speed limit; and
      (3)   The permission granted pursuant to this section shall expire upon
the coroner leaving office or the legislative body revoking the authorization.
   (L)   A deputy coroner certified pursuant to KRS Chapter 72 may equip a
publicly owned or privately owned motor vehicle, or both, with flashing,
rotating, or oscillating red and blue lights and a siren meeting the
requirements of this section solely for the purpose of responding to a report
of the death of a human being, subject to the following terms and conditions:
      (1)   The deputy coroner has made a written request to the coroner to
equip a publicly owned or privately owned vehicle with flashing, rotating, or
oscillating, red and blue lights meeting the requirements of this section and
the coroner has approved the request in writing;
      (2)   The coroner makes a written request to the legislative body of the
county, urban-county, charter county, consolidated local government, or unified
local government in which the coroner is elected to permit the deputy coroner
to equip a publicly owned motor vehicle or privately owned motor vehicle, or
both, and that request has been approved by the legislative body by ordinance
or by court order;
      (3)   The deputy coroner may use the lights and siren only while
responding to the scene of the report of the death of a human being and shall
not, KRS 189.940 to the contrary notwithstanding, exceed the posted speed
limit; and
      (4)   The permission granted pursuant to this section shall expire upon
the coroner leaving office or the legislative body revoking the authorization.
(KRS 189.920) Penalty, see §
70.99 (W)
§ 72.05 TYPES OF VEHICLES ALLOWED TO USE FLASHING LIGHTS.
   (A)   No motor vehicle, except those designated in §§
71.05 through
71.08,
72.04, and
72.05 as emergency vehicles, shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use
upon a vehicle, any siren, whistle, or bell. Any vehicle may be equipped with a
theft alarm signal device which shall be so arranged that it cannot be used as
an ordinary warning signal.
   (B)   No motor vehicle, except those designated under §§
71.05 through
71.08,
72.04, and
72.05 as emergency vehicles, shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use
upon a vehicle any red or blue flashing, revolving, or oscillating light or
place a red light on the front thereof. This shall not apply to the use of red
flashing lights on school buses or to stop lights or turn signals at the rear
of any motor vehicle.
   (C) Except as otherwise provided for in this section, a person shall not
illuminate a blue light that is affixed to a motor vehicle while operating the
motor vehicle on a highway. This division does not apply to:
      (1)   Any light on a motorcycle that is not affixed to the front of the
motorcycle; or
      (2)   Nonhalogen headlamps that have a slight blue tint and meet United
States Department of Transportation regulations.
   (D)   No motor vehicle, except those designated under §§
71.05 through
71.08,
72.04, and
72.05 as public safety vehicles, shall be equipped with, nor shall any person
use upon any vehicle any yellow flashing, revolving, or oscillating light. This
shall not apply to the use of yellow lights for turn signals; or to emergency
flasher lights for use when warning the operators of other vehicles of the
presence of a vehicular traffic hazard requiring the exercise of unusual care
in approaching, overtaking, or passing; or to vehicles operated by mail
carriers while on duty; funeral escort vehicles and church buses.
   (E)   Any person who is a regular or voluntary member of any fire department
furnishing fire protection for the city or any person who is a regular or
voluntary member of a rescue squad may equip his or her vehicle with red
flashing, rotating, or oscillating lights and a siren, bell, or exhaust whistle
if he or she has first been given permission, in writing, to do so by the chief
of the fire department or rescue squad. He or she may use the lights and
equipment only while proceeding to the scene of a fire or other emergency or to
a location where another emergency vehicle is on emergency call in the
performance of his or her official duties as a member of a fire department or
rescue squad.
   (F)   (1)   Any constable meeting the requirements of division (B) of this
section may, upon approval of the fiscal court in the county of jurisdiction,
the legislative council of an urban-county government, or the legislative body
of a consolidated local government, equip vehicles used by that officer as
emergency vehicles with one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating blue
lights, visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet
to the front of such vehicle, and a siren, whistle, or bell, capable of
emitting a sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less
than 500 feet. This equipment shall be in addition to any other equipment
required by the motor vehicle laws.
      (2)   (a)   Any constable who has successfully completed a basic training
course, as established by KRS 15.440, at a school certified or recognized by
the Kentucky Law Enforcement Council, and who maintains his or her
certification as a peace officer pursuant to KRS 15.380 through his or her term
of office as a constable, may equip vehicles used by that officer as emergency
vehicles with one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating blue lights,
visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the
front of the vehicle, and a siren, whistle, or bell, capable of emitting a
sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than 500
feet. This equipment shall be in addition to any other equipment required by
the motor vehicle laws. Any constable authorized to use blue lights and a siren
pursuant to this section shall maintain at least the insurance described by KRS
304.39-110.
            (b)   The fiscal court in the county of jurisdiction, the
legislative council of an urban-county government, or the legislative body of a
consolidated local government may revoke this authorization, if the fiscal
court, the council, or the body determines an issue of public safety or abuse
by the constable.
   (G)   Any person who is a paid or voluntary member of any ambulance service
furnishing emergency medical services for a political subdivision of the state
may equip his vehicle with red flashing, rotating, or oscillating lights and a
siren, bell, or exhaust whistle if he has first been given permission, in
writing, to do so by the chief or director of the ambulance service. He may use
such lights and equipment only while proceeding to the scene of an emergency, a
medical facility, or to a location where another emergency vehicle is on
emergency call in the performance of his official duties as a member of the
ambulance service.
(KRS 189.950) Penalty, see §
70.99(X)
§ 72.06 FLASHING WHITE OR AMBER LIGHTS TO WARN OF TRAFFIC HAZARD PERMITTED.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions against the use of flashing lights, any
vehicle may be equipped with lamps which may be used for the purpose of warning
the operators of other vehicles of the presence of a vehicular traffic hazard
requiring the exercise of unusual care in approaching, overtaking or passing
and when so equipped may display such warning in addition to any other warning
signals required by law. The lamps used to display the warning to the front
shall be mounted at the same level and as widely spaced laterally as
practicable, and shall display simultaneously flashing white or amber lights,
or any shade of color between white and amber. The lamps used to display the
warning to the rear shall be mounted at the same level and as widely spaced
laterally as practicable, and shall show simultaneously flashing amber or red
lights, or any shade of color between amber and red. These warning lights shall
be visible from a distance of not less than 1,500 feet under normal atmospheric
conditions at night.
(KRS 189.043)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 72.07 REAR, SIDE, AND CLEARANCE LIGHTS.
   (A)   All motor vehicles shall display at the rear 2 red lights visible when
lighted for at least 500 feet, unless the motor vehicle was originally equipped
with only 1 such light.
   (B)   A person shall not operate any motor truck or semitrailer truck on any
highway unless it is equipped with a red light that automatically indicates the
application of brakes and is visible from the rear a distance of not less than
500 feet.
   (C)   No person shall operate on any highway a motor truck or semitrailer
truck having a width of any part in excess of 84 inches, unless it carries at
least 2 clearance lights to indicate the outside left limit of the motor truck
or semitrailer truck, 1 light colored white, to be attached to and be visible
from the front of the motor truck or semitrailer truck, and 2 lights colored
red, to be attached to and be visible from the rear, in each case a distance of
not less than 500 feet.
   (D)   When in operation on any highway slow-moving or motorless vehicles,
except bicycles and electric low-speed scooters, shall have at least 1 light on
the left side of the vehicle whether from the front or rear, showing white and
of sufficient power to reveal clearly the outline of the left side of the
vehicle and in such a manner that the outline may be observed clearly by
approaching vehicles from a distance of at least 500 feet.
   (E)   When in operation between sunset and sunrise on any highway, motorless
vehicles, except bicycles and electric low-speed scooters, shall have in
operation:
      (1)   A 4-way flasher system, with 2 flashing yellow or amber lights
visible from the front of the vehicle for a distance of at least 500 feet and 2
flashing red lights visible from the rear of the vehicle for a distance of at
least 500 feet; or
      (2)   Two reflective lanterns, 1 on either side of the rear of the
vehicle, showing white to the front of the vehicle and red to the rear of the
vehicle, with the lantern on the left side of the vehicle situated at least 12
inches higher than the lantern on the right.
(KRS 189.050) Penalty, see §
70.99 (A), (B)
§ 72.08 BRAKE LIGHTS.
   A person shall not operate any vehicle required by law to be licensed upon a
highway unless it is equipped with a mechanical signal device which would
indicate an intention to stop or suddenly decrease speed by illuminating at
least 2 red lights, on the rear of the vehicle, which are visible from the rear
a distance of not less than 500 feet, unless the vehicle was originally
manufactured with only 1 such red light on the rear of the vehicle.
(KRS 189.055)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 72.09 LIGHTS ON VEHICLES IN TOW AND PROJECTIONS.
   (A)   Each vehicle towed by a tow line shall display the lights required on
vehicles of the class to which it belongs.
   (B)   Each vehicle being hauled by another and connected to it in a manner
that will keep them uniformly spaced shall carry at least one light on the left
side in such a manner as to show an amber light to the front and a red light to
the rear visible at least 1,000 feet away.
   (C)   When any part of a load projects more than 4 feet beyond a vehicle, 2
red flags by day and 2 red lights during the period provided in §
72.02 must be placed upon the extremity of the projection marking the width of
the overhang.
(KRS 189.060)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 72.10 MOTOR VEHICLES TO CARRY AND USE REQUIRED FLARES OR SIMILAR SIGNALS.
   (A)   A person shall not operate any commercial motor vehicle upon a highway
outside of a business or residence district at any time from 1/2 hour before
sunset to 1/2 hour before sunrise unless that vehicle carries the number and
type of flares, electric lanterns, or other signals which the Department of
Motor Transportation shall by regulation require.
   (B)   Whenever any commercial vehicle and its lighting equipment are
disabled during a period when lighted lamps must be illuminated on vehicles and
the vehicle cannot immediately be removed from the main traveled portion of a
highway outside of a business or residence district, the person in charge of
the vehicle shall cause to be placed upon the highway the flares, lanterns and
other signals as the Department of Motor Transportation shall by regulation
require, and the flares, lanterns, or other signals shall be utilized as
required by the regulations.
(KRS 189.070)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 72.11 HORNS AND OTHER SOUND DEVICES.
   Every motor vehicle, when in use on a highway, shall be equipped with a horn
or other device capable of making an abrupt sound sufficiently loud to be heard
from a distance of at least 200 feet under all ordinary traffic conditions.
Every person operating an automobile or bicycle shall sound the horn or sound
device whenever necessary as a warning of the approach of the vehicle to
pedestrians, or other vehicles, but shall not sound the horn or sound device
unnecessarily. A bell may be used on a bicycle.
(KRS 189.080)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 72.12 BRAKES.
   (A)   No owner shall knowingly operate or permit to be operated on a highway
a motor vehicle upon which the brakes are defective.
   (B)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, when operated upon a
highway shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and
to stop and hold the vehicle. There shall be 2 separate means of applying the
brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply the brakes to at least
2 wheels. If the 2 separate means are connected in any way, they shall be so
constructed that failure of any one part of the operating mechanism shall not
leave the motor vehicle without brakes on at least 2 wheels.
   (C)   (1)   Except for commercial vehicles with a declared gross weight of
more than 10,000 pounds, the service brakes upon any motor vehicle or
combination of vehicles shall be adequate to stop the vehicle when traveling 20
m.p.h. within a distance of 40 feet when upon dry asphalt or concrete pavement
surface free from loose material where the grade does not exceed one percent.
      (2)   Under the conditions described in division (C) (1) the hand brake
shall be adequate to stop the vehicle within a distance of 55 feet and the hand
brake shall be adequate to hold the vehicle stationary on any grade upon which
it is operated.
      (3)   Under the conditions described in division (C) (1) the service
brakes upon a motor vehicle equipped with two-wheel brakes only shall be
adequate to stop the vehicle within a distance of 40 feet and the hand brake
adequate to stop the vehicle within a distance of 55 feet.
      (4)   All braking distances specified in this section shall apply whether
or not the vehicles are loaded to the maximum capacity permitted by law.
      (5)   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be
so adjusted as to operate equally practicable with respect to the wheels on
opposite sides of the vehicle.
   (D)   A person shall not operate any commercial vehicle with a declared
gross weight of over 10,000 pounds on any highway in this city unless it is
equipped with efficient brakes that meet the federal motor carrier safety
standards in 49 CFR Part 393 and may be operated by the operator of the
vehicle.
(KRS 189.090)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 72.13 STEERING DEVICE NOT TO BE DEFECTIVE.
   No owner shall knowingly operate or permit to be operated on a highway a
motor vehicle upon which the steering device is defective.
(KRS 189.100)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 72.14 WINDOWS TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED; DISPLAY OF AMERICAN FLAG; WINDSHIELD
WIPERS.
   (A)   A windshield in a fixed and upright position, which is equipped with
safety glazing as required by federal safety-glazing material standards, is
required on every motor vehicle which is operated on the public highways,
roads, and streets, except on a motorcycle or implement of husbandry.
   (B)   A person shall not operate any motor vehicle on any public highway,
road, or street with any sign, sunscreening material, product, or covering
attached to, or located in or upon the windshield, except the following:
      (1)   A certificate or other paper required to be displayed by law;
      (2)   Sunscreening material along a strip at the top of the windshield,
so long as such material is transparent and does not encroach upon the driver’s
direct forward viewing area as more particularly described and defined in
Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards Nos. 205 and 128 as the AS/l portion of
the windshield; or
      (3)   Sunscreening material or other product or material applied to the
windshield, when used in conjunction with the safety glazing materials of the
windshield, if it has a light transmittance of not less than 70% and is not red
or yellow in color.
   (C)   A person shall not operate any motor vehicle required to be registered
in the Commonwealth, on any public highway, road, or street on which vehicle
the side wings and side windows on either side forward of or adjacent to the
operator’s seat are composed of, covered by, or treated with any sunscreening
material or other product or covering which has the effect of making the window
nontransparent or which would alter the window’s color, increase its
reflectivity, or reduce its light transmittance, except as expressly permitted
by this section. A sunscreening material may be applied to such windows if,
when tested on one-eighth-inch clear glass, the material has a total solar
reflectance of visible light of not more than 25% as measured on the nonfilm
side and a light transmittance of at least 35% in the visible light range.
   (D)   A person shall not operate any motor vehicle required to be registered
in the Commonwealth, on any public highway, road, or street on which vehicle
any windows behind the driver are composed of, covered by, or treated with any
sunscreening material, or other product or material which has the effect of
making the window nontransparent or which would alter the window’s color,
increase its reflectivity, or reduce its light transmittance, except as
specified below:
      (1)   Sunscreen material consisting of film which, when tested on one-
eighth-inch clear glass, has a total solar reflectance of visible light of not
more than 35% as measured on the nonfilm side and a light transmittance of at
least 18% in the visible light range; however, sunscreen material which, when
tested on one-eighth-inch clear glass, has a total solar reflectance of visible
light of not more than 35% as measured on the nonfilm side and a light
transmittance of at least 8% in the visible light range may be used on
multipurpose passenger vehicles;
      (2)   Perforated sunscreening material which, when tested in conjunction
with existing glazing or film material, has a total reflectance of visible
light of not more than 35% and a light transmittance of no less than 30%. For
those products or materials having different levels of reflectance, the highest
reflectance from the product or material will be measured by dividing the area
into 16 equal sections and averaging the overall reflectance. The measured
reflectance of any of those sections may not exceed 50%.
   (E)   A person shall not operate any motor vehicle required to be registered
in the Commonwealth, upon any public highway, road, or street, on which vehicle
the rear window is composed of, covered by, or treated with any material which
has the effect of making the window nontransparent, unless the vehicle is
equipped with side mirrors on both sides.
   (F)   Each installer or seller of sunscreening material shall provide a
pressure-sensitive, self-destructive, nonremovable, vinyl- type film label to
the purchaser stating that the material complies with the provisions of KRS
189.010(19) - (22) and divisions (A) - (E) above. Each such installer shall
affix the required label to the inside left door jamb of the motor vehicle. In
addition, the label shall state the trade name of the material and the
installer’s or seller’s business name. Labeling is not required for factory
glazing which complies with Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 205.
   (G)   Every percentage measurement required by divisions (B) through (D)
above is subject to a tolerance of plus or minus 3%.
   (H)   No person shall install window tinting materials on any vehicle after
July 15, 1988, which fails to meet the minimum standards for light transmission
pursuant to divisions (B) through (D) above. Any tinted material installed
prior to the effective date of this Act which fails to meet the minimum
standards for light transmission pursuant to divisions (B) through (D) above
shall be removed within six months after the effective date of this section. No
police officer shall issue a uniform traffic citation during the first six-
month period, but owners of vehicles in violation shall be issued a warning
citation during said six months.
   (I)   Any person who applies sunscreening materials in violation of this
section shall be guilty upon conviction of a Class B misdemeanor.
   (J)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the display of a representation
of the American flag on the rear window of any motor vehicle, including any
vehicle owned by the city, provided that the representation does not exceed a
size of five inches by eight inches and is placed in a lower corner of the rear
window.
   (K)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow or other moisture from the windshield. The device shall
be so constructed as to be controlled by the operator of the vehicle.
      (1)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the use of
any window which is composed of, covered by, or treated with any material or
component in a manner approved by federal statute or regulation if such window
was as a component part of a vehicle at the time of the vehicle manufacturer,
or the replacement of any such window by such covering which meets such
requirements.
(KRS 189.110) Penalty, see §
70.99(A)
§ 72.15 MUFFLERS; NOISE REGULATION.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle with an internal combustion, steam or air motor
shall be equipped with a suitable and efficient muffler. No person while on a
highway shall operate a motor vehicle with the muffler cut out or removed. No
cutout shall be so arranged or connected as to permit its operation or control
by the driver of any motor vehicle while in position for driving.
   (B)   No person shall modify the exhaust system of a motor vehicle or an
off-highway vehicle in a manner which will amplify or increase the noise
emitted by the motor of the vehicle above that emitted by the muffler
originally installed on the vehicle. The original muffler shall comply with all
of the noise requirements of KRS Chapter 224 and regulations promulgated
pursuant thereto. No person shall operate a motor vehicle with an exhaust
system so modified.
(KRS 189.140)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 72.16 SMOKE.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in such manner as to cause it to
emit unnecessary smoke, gas, or vapor.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (H)
§ 72.17 NOISE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city limits to make,
continue or cause to be made or continued any loud, unnecessary or unusual
noise which either annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or
safety of others unless the making and continuing of the noise is necessary for
the protection or preservation of property or the health, safety, life or limb
of the person.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle which produces excessively
loud or unnecessary noise, or to load any vehicle with iron or any other
material in a manner that will cause excessive noise and no horn or other
signaling device shall be sounded for an unnecessary length of time, or for any
purpose other than for necessary warning, incident to the operation of the
vehicle.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (H)
§ 72.18 MIRRORS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, every motor
vehicle shall be equipped with the following mirrors so located and adjusted as
to reflect to the driver a view of the highway to the rear of the vehicle:
      (1)   One mirror mounted on the left side of the vehicle; and
      (2)   One mirror, mounted either inside the vehicle approximately in the
center or on the right side of the vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall, by himself or herself or through his or her agent or
servant, operate a motor vehicle upon the highways without the equipment
required by division (A). Each day of operation without the equipment shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   No person shall sell, barter or otherwise dispose of any motor vehicle
described in division (A) unless it is equipped with a mirror as provided in
that division.
   (D)   A motorcycle shall be required only to have the mirror identified in
(A)(1) above.
(KRS 189.130)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 72.19 ESCAPING CONTENTS.
   No vehicle shall be operated upon any highway unless it is so constructed as
to prevent its contents from escaping.
(KRS 189.150)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 72.20 CERTAIN CARGOES TO BE COVERED.
   It shall be unlawful to operate on any street any vehicle containing
substances objectionable to the eye unless the substances are covered with
tarpaulin or other covering.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
Penalty, see § 70.999 (A)
§ 72.21 VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES TO BE MARKED; FIRE EXTINGUISHERS.
   Whenever a vehicle is used to transport an explosive, it shall be marked on
each side and the rear with the word "explosives" in letters no less than 8
inches high, or there shall be displayed on the rear of the vehicle a red flag
not less than 24 inches square marked with the word "danger" in white letters 6
inches high. The vehicle shall be equipped with not less than 2 fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use, and placed at a convenient
point on the vehicle.
(KRS 189.160)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 72.22 RESERVED.
§ 72.23 CHAINS AND LUGS ON WHEELS.
   (A)   No person shall use on a highway not covered with ice, a vehicle with
a chained wheel, unless the wheel rests upon an ice shoe at least 6 inches
wide.
   (B)   Where chains are used on rubber-tired vehicles, the cross chains shall
be not more than 3/4 of an inch in thickness or diameter, and shall be spaced
not more than 10 inches apart, around the circumference of the tires.
   (C)   Any machinery, utensils or implements used solely for agricultural,
farming or manufacturing purposes may be operated on the highways under present
equipment except as is provided in division (D).
   (D)   No tractor, traction engine, hauling engine or other similar power
vehicle having any projections on the face of the tires or rims of the wheels
in contact with the pavement shall be operated on any highway, the top surface
of which is either composed of or treated with bituminous materials or concrete
except that the driving wheels may be fitted with flat lugs extending
diagonally across the entire width of the tire or rim. Those lugs shall be not
less than one inch in width at the bearing surface in contact with the
pavement, but those lugs shall be so spaced that not less than 2 lugs on each
driving wheel shall be in contact with the highway surface at all times. The
front or nondriving wheels may be fitted with flat steering rings, if those
rings are at least 2 inches in width and not more than 1-1/2 inches in height,
but there shall be no bolt head, rivet heads or other projections beyond the
face of the tire or rim. The narrow angle iron lugs used for plowing or on soft
ground shall not be permitted, nor shall any tractor or other vehicles of the
caterpillar or track laying type having these projections on the faces of the
shoes or treads of the track in contact with the roadway be permitted unless
fitted with the flat lugs, in a way that will prevent any injury to the highway
by either the narrow angle lugs or the projections on any tractor or other
vehicle named in this section.
(KRS 189.190)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A), (Z)
§ 72.24 SOLID RUBBER TIRES.
   No solid rubber or rubber compounded tire on any vehicle, other than a
vehicle being actually used in the construction or maintenance of a highway,
shall be less than one inch thick, measured from the steel flange of the rim.
Any person violating this section shall be civilly liable for any damage done
to any state or county highway.
(KRS 189.190 (5))
Penalty, see § 70.99 (Z), (2)
§ 72.25 MAXIMUM WEIGHT ON IRON AND SOLID TIRES.
   No person shall operate on a highway a vehicle that has greater weight on
any tire per inch of width of the tire which is in contact with the surface of
the highway, than 400 pounds, for iron or steel tires, or 600 pounds, for solid
rubber or rubber compounded tires.
(KRS 189.200)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 72.26 REGROOVED OR RECUT TIRES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly operate upon any highway any vehicle on
which any tire has been regrooved or recut or offer such tire for sale or
exchange.
   (B)   This shall not apply to regrooved or recut vehicle tires which are
designed and constructed in such a manner that regrooving and recutting is an
acceptable and safe practice nor does this apply to regrooving and recutting
done in a tire recapping process.
   (C)    No provision of this section shall apply or be construed to apply to
any commercial vehicle operated under safety regulations or requirements of the
Kentucky Department of Motor Transportation or of the Interstate Commerce
Commission.
(KRS 189.205)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 72.27 MAXIMUM WEIGHT PERMITTED ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   No person shall operate on a highway any vehicle, object or
contrivance, other than a motor truck or semitrailer truck, which weighs more
than 5 tons, including the weight of the vehicle, object or contrivance and
load, except as provided by division (B). This shall not apply to vehicles run
upon tracks or fire apparatus belonging to the fire department or used by the
department in the discharge of its functions.
   (B)   The mayor or city engineer upon an application in writing by the owner
or person having charge of, may grant permission for the movement of vehicles,
objects or structures limited by division (A), over the highways within the
city. The permission shall be in writing and the mayor or city engineer may
grant it subject to the conditions and restrictions as in his judgment are
necessary for the preservation and protection of the highways.
(KRS 189.210)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (AA)
SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES
§ 72.30 EMBLEM REQUIRED.
   Except as provided in KRS 189.820(4), all slow-moving vehicles sold, leased,
or rented in, or for use within, the city shall have affixed to them as
standard equipment a slow-moving vehicle emblem.
(KRS 189.820) (1)) Penalty, see §
70.99 (O)
§ 72.31 DISPLAY OF EMBLEM.
   Except as provided in KRS 189.820(4), the slow-moving vehicle emblem shall
be displayed as provided on all slow-moving vehicles operated day or night upon
the public roads within the city.
(KRS 189.820 (2)) Penalty, see §
70.99 (O)
§ 72.32 REGULATIONS FOR MOUNTING EMBLEM.
   The slow-moving vehicle emblem shall be mounted as near the center of the
rear of the slow-moving vehicle as is practicable, and the lower edge of the
emblem shall be mounted at least 3 feet or more above the road surface and
shall be maintained in a clean reflective condition.
(KRS 189.820 (3)) Penalty, see §
70.99 (O)
§ 72.33 USES WHERE EMBLEM NOT REQUIRED.
   (A)   The slow-moving vehicle emblem shall be restricted to the uses
specified herein and the use on any other type of vehicle or on other objects
is prohibited.
   (B)   The slow-moving vehicle emblem shall not be required on trailers or
other drawn vehicles which do not obstruct the slow- moving vehicle emblem
required on the towing vehicle.
   (C)   Highway construction or maintenance vehicles and public utility
vehicles shall not require slow-moving vehicle emblems when being guarded by
flagmen or flares.
   (D)   The use of slow-moving vehicle emblems or alternate reflective tape,
as required under KRS 189.820(4), shall be in addition to any other reflective
or lighting devices required by law.
   (E)   The slow-moving vehicle emblem shall not be used on a bicycle.
(KRS 189.830)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (O)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES; MOTORCYCLES; GOLF CARTS AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
Section
General Regulations
   
73.01   Motorcycles; regulations for operating and riding
   
73.02   Traffic code provisions applicable
Bicycles
   
73.05   Bicycle safety regulations and standards
Golf Carts and All-Terrain Vehicles
   
73.20   Definitions
   
73.21   Roadways open for golf art and all-terrain vehicle use
   
73.22   Operation of golf carts and all-terrain vehicles on city streets
   
73.23   Qualifications for operation of golf carts and all-terrain vehicles on
city streets
 
   
73.99   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 73.01 MOTORCYCLES; REGULATIONS FOR OPERATING AND RIDING.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorcycle:
      (1)   Except when that person is in possession of a valid motorcycle
operator's license; and
      (2)   Unless that person uses an approved eye-protective device, in the
manner prescribed by the Secretary of the Department of Transportation, at all
times the vehicle is in motion; and
      (3)   Unless the motorcycle is equipped with a rearview mirror as
required by §
72.18 (D).
   (B)   No person shall operate or ride as a passenger on a motorcycle:
      (1)   Except on a seat permanently attached to that vehicle and
specifically designed to carry the operator or passenger in a safe manner; and
      (2)   Except when using a footrest permanently attached to that vehicle
and specifically designed to carry that person in a safe manner; and
      (3)   Unless that person wears approved protective headgear, in the
manner prescribed by the Secretary of the Department of Transportation, at all
times that the vehicle is in motion.
   (C)   The city adopts and shall enforce the observance of standards for
safety equipment for motorcycles as set by regulations of the Department of
Transportation.
(KRS 189.285)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.02 TRAFFIC CODE PROVISIONS APPLICABLE.
   The provisions of this traffic code governing the operation of motor
vehicles upon the streets of the city shall apply to the operation of
motorcycles and bicycles on the streets of the city except where the provisions
by their nature are inapplicable.
BICYCLES
§ 73.05 BICYCLE SAFETY REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS.
   Bicycle riders and bicycles complying with the safety regulations and
standards set by the Transportation Cabinet are exempt from the provisions of
§§
72.03 (I),
72.07 (A),
72.07 (E), and
72.11. These bicycles and riders are also exempt from city regulations
concerning safety equipment but not method of operation.
(KRS 189.287)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (BB)
GOLF CARTS AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 73.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE.” Any motor vehicle used for recreational off-road use.
   “CITY.” The City of St. Matthews, Kentucky.
   “GOLF CART.” Any self-propelled vehicle that:
      (1)   Is designed for the transportation of players or maintaining
equipment on a golf course, while engaged in the playing of golf, or
maintaining the condition of the grounds on a golf course;
      (2)   Has a minimum of four wheels;
      (3)   Is designed to operate at a speed of not more than 35 miles per
hour;
      (4)   Is designed to carry not more than six persons, including the
driver;
      (5)   Has a maximum gross vehicle weight of 2,500 pounds;
      (6)   Has a maximum rated payload capacity of 1,200 pounds; and
      (7)   Meets the Federal motor vehicle safety standards for low-speed
vehicles set forth in 49 CFR § 571.500.
   “HIGHWAY.” Any public road, street, avenue, alley or boulevard, bridge,
viaduct, or trestle and the approaches to them and includes private residential
roads and parking lots covered by an agreement under KRS 61.362, off-street
parking facilities offered for public use, whether publicly or privately owned,
except for-hire parking facilities listed in KRS 189.700.
   “INTERSECTION.”
      (1)(a)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two highways which join one another, but do not necessarily
continue, at approximately right angles, or the area within which vehicles
traveling upon different highways joining at any other angle may come into
conflict; or
         (b)   Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. If the intersecting
highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, every crossing of two
roadways of the highways shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      (2)   The junction of a private alley with a public street or highway
shall not constitute an intersection.
   “MOTOR VEHICLE.” Includes all vehicles except:
      (1)   Road rollers;
      (2)   Road graders;
      (3)   Farm tractors;
      (4)   Vehicles on which power shovels are mounted;
      (5)   Construction equipment customarily used only on the site of
construction and which is not practical for the transportation of persons or
property upon the highways;
      (6)   Vehicles that travel exclusively upon rails; and
      (7)   Vehicles propelled by muscular power.
   “OPERATOR.” The person in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   “ROADWAY.” That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes
two or more separate roadways, the term “ROADWAY” as used herein shall refer to
any roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
   “VEHICLE.” Includes:
      (1)   All agencies for the transportation of persons or property over or
upon the public highways of the Commonwealth; and
      (2)   All vehicles passing over or upon the highways.
(Ord. 20-06, passed 8-11-20)
§ 73.21 ROADWAYS OPEN FOR GOLF CART AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE USE.
   (A)   The roadways subject to the provisions of this section are those
portions of any public road within the City of St. Matthews, Kentucky that have
a posted speed limit of 35 miles per-hour or less; however, the Mayor, or the
Mayor’s designee, is hereby granted the authority to determine if a particular
Street, road or section thereof should be withdrawn from the scope of this
section in the interest of public safety, and, upon such a determination and
its publication and passages by the City Council.
   (B)   In accordance with §
71.60, the St. Matthews Police Department and the St. Matthews Public Works
Department have inspected the heavily traveled and congested areas in the city
and determined that the following list of rights-of-way that are recognized as
areas of congestion in St. Matthews. These areas have been determined to be
unsafe areas for golf carts and low speed vehicles, due to the amount and speed
of traffic and the limited space for travel and golf carts and low speed
vehicles. Golf carts and low speed vehicles are prohibited (except to safely
cross), in the following areas:
      (1)   Shelbyville Road.
      (2)   Chenoweth Lane.
      (3)   Frankfort Avenue.
      (4)   New LaGrange Road.
      (5)   Westport Road.
      (6)   Breckenridge Lane.
      (7)   Dutchman's Lane.
      (8)   Kresge Way.
      (9)   Bowling Boulevard,
      (10)   South Hubbards Lane,
      (11)   Browns Lane.
      (12)   Dutchman's Parkway,
      (13)   St. Matthews Avenue,
      (14)   Willis Avenue,
      (15)   Washburn Avenue,
      (16)   Rudy Lane,
      (17)   Massie Avenue,
      (18)   Willis Avenue.
(Ord. 20-06, passed 8-11-20)
§ 73.22 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES ON CITY STREETS.
   A person may operate a golf cart or all-terrain vehicle on a city street if:
   (A)   The posted speed limit of the city street is 35 miles per hour or
less;
   (B)   The operator of the low speed vehicle does not cross a roadway at an
intersection where the roadway being crossed has a posted speed limit of more
than 35 miles per hour;
   (C)   The operator has a valid operator's license in his or her possession;
   (D)   The low speed vehicle is being operated between sunrise and sunset;
   (E)   The low speed vehicle displays a slow-moving vehicle emblem in
compliance with KRS 189.820 and has had the inspection required by KRS 189.286
(3)(c);
   (F)   The operator and all passengers use all safety equipment with which
the golf cart or all-terrain vehicle is equipped; and
   (G)   No more than the maximum number of occupants for which the golf cart
or all-terrain vehicle is designed are onboard.
   (H)   The all-terrain vehicle has at least one headlight and two taillights,
which shall be illuminated at all times the vehicle is in operation.
(Ord. 20-06, passed 8-11-20)
§ 73.23 QUALIFICATIONS FOR OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES ON
CITY STREETS.
   (A)   A golf cart or ATV operating on a city street shall be insured in
compliance with KRS 304.39-080 by the owner or operator, and the proof of
insurance shall be inside the vehicle at all times of operation on a city
street.
   (B)   Any person operating a low speed vehicle on a city street shall be
subject to the traffic regulations of KRS Ch. 189.
   (C)   A golf cart or ATV operated on a city street shall:
      (1)   Prior to seeking a city permit, be inspected by a certified
inspector designated by the County Sheriff and certified through the Department
of Vehicle Regulation to ensure that the vehicle complies with the requirements
of KRS 189.286. The inspection fee under this section shall not exceed $5 with
an additional fee not to exceed $10 per trip charged if it becomes necessary
for the certified inspector to travel to the site of the golf cart rather than
having the golf cart brought to the Sheriffs inspection area;
      (2)   Be issued a sticker or permit for the golf cart or ATV by the city.
The fee for an initial permit or sticker for low speed vehicle from the city
shall be $25. A permit shall be valid until the first day of March of the
following year. The fee for a renewal permit or sticker from the city shall be
$15; and
      (3)   Display the permit or sticker issued by the city on the front of
the vehicle that identifies that the golf cart or ATV is allowed to be operated
on city streets.
(Ord. 20-06, passed 8-11-20)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Operating a golf cart in violation of any provision of this chapter is
a civil offense and as such may be addressed by the City of St. Matthews. Any
peace officer or citation officer may issue a citation for the violation of any
provision of this chapter. Any person violating a provision of this chapter
shall receive a civil tine of $100 to $500. Any person who violates any
provision of this chapter two or more times within a 12 month period shall
receive a civil fine of $500 to $1,000.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to relieve any person of
any legal duties or obligation created by any other statute or ordinance.
Promulgation of this chapter does not preclude legal enforcement by any peace
officer or traffic control officer of any provision in the Kentucky Revised
Statute, including the prohibition against operating an unlicensed or
unregistered motor vehicle on the public roads of the Commonwealth unless that
motor vehicle falls within the exceptions created by this chapter or any other
existing law, ordinance or regulation in the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
(Ord. 20-06, passed 8-11-20)
CHAPTER 74: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
74.01   Pedestrians subject to traffic-control devices
   
74.02   Pedestrian has right-of-way where traffic-control devices are absent
   
74.03   Passing vehicle stopped for pedestrian prohibited
   
74.04   When vehicles have right-of-way over pedestrians
   
74.05   Pedestrians to use crosswalks
   
74.06   Pedestrians to use left side of highway; yield right-of-way
   
74.07   Soliciting rides forbidden
   
74.08   Blind pedestrians; safety precautions
   
74.09   Skating, coasting
   
74.10   Acts to cause blocked sidewalks
   
74.11   Pedestrian soliciting sales, employment
   
74.12   Pedestrian soliciting contributions; guarding of vehicle
   
74.13   Pedestrians to obey signals at bridges and crossings
   
74.14   Pedestrian under influence of alcohol or drugs
   
74.15   Pedestrians to use sidewalks where available
   
74.16   Pedestrians not to create hazard
   
74.17   Duties of vehicle operators towards pedestrians
   
74.18    Pedestrian and traffic safety
§ 74.01 PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Pedestrians shall obey the instruction of any official traffic-control
devices specifically applicable to them, unless otherwise directed by a police
officer or other officially designated persons. Pedestrians shall be subject to
traffic- and pedestrian-control signals as provided in KRS 189.231 and 189.338.
At all other places, pedestrians shall be accorded the privileges and shall be
subject to the restrictions stated in this chapter.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic-control devices; and, when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
(KRS 189.570 (1), (2), (3), (10))
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 74.02 PEDESTRIAN HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY WHERE TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES ARE ABSENT.
   When traffic-control signals are not in place or in operation the operator
of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if need be
to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger.
(KRS 189.570 (2))
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 74.03 PASSING VEHICLE STOPPED FOR PEDESTRIAN PROHIBITED.
   Whenever a vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any unmarked
crosswalk at an intersection, to permit a pedestrian to cross the roadway, the
operator of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not overtake and
pass the stopped vehicle.
(KRS 189.570 (3))
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 74.04 WHEN VEHICLES HAVE RIGHT-OF-WAY OVER PEDESTRIANS.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing on the roadway at a point where a pedestrian
tunnel or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   The operator of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrian on a sidewalk.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section or any other ordinance,
every operator of a vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any
pedestrian, and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary, and
shall exercise proper precaution upon observing a child or an obviously
confused or incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(KRS 189.570 (4))
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 74.05 PEDESTRIANS TO USE CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Between adjacent intersections within the city limits at which
traffic-control signals are in operation pedestrians shall not cross at any
place except in a marked crosswalk.
   (B)   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(KRS 189.570 (5))
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
   (C)   There is established a pedestrian crosswalk crossing North Sherrin
Avenue at or about 115 North Sherrin Avenue.
   (D)   The pedestrian crosswalk established in division (C) hereof shall be
marked in accordance with KRS 189.337.
(Ord. 10, passed 6-24-80)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 74.06 PEDESTRIANS TO USE LEFT SIDE OF HIGHWAY; YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking on or along a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an outside
edge of the roadway, and, if on a two-way roadway shall walk only on the left
side of the roadway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any pedestrian upon a
roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   Upon the immediate approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating red or blue lights,
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
such vehicle, and the operator is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle, or bell, every pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the
emergency vehicle.
(KRS 189.570 (14), (15), (23))
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 74.07 SOLICITING RIDES FORBIDDEN.
   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride.
(KRS 189.570 (7))
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 74.08 BLIND PEDESTRIANS; SAFETY PRECAUTIONS.
   The operator of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any blind
pedestrian carrying a clearly visible white cane or accompanied by an
assistance dog.
(KRS 189.575)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (G)
§ 74.09 SKATING, COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as "play streets"
by the director of works and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall
be unlawful for any person upon skates or riding on a coaster sled, or toy
vehicle of any kind, to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (G)
§ 74.10 ACTS TO CAUSE BLOCKED SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in or upon any sidewalk or in or upon
any premises in or abutting thereon, to make any speech or harangue, or to
demonstrate, sell or offer for sale goods, wares, or merchandise, or to display
any signs, device, information, or exhibition, in consequence of which there is
caused or created such a gathering of persons on such sidewalk as to interfere
with pedestrian traffic thereon.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (G)
§ 74.11 PEDESTRIANS SOLICITING SALES, EMPLOYMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand in a roadway for the purpose of
soliciting employment from the operator of any private vehicle or for the
purpose of selling merchandise.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (G)
§ 74.12 PEDESTRIAN SOLICITING CONTRIBUTIONS; GUARDING OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting
contributions unless such soliciting is designated by the presence of a
traffic-control device or warning signal or an emergency vehicle or public
safety vehicle as defined in KRS 189.910 making use of the flashing, rotating,
or oscillating red, blue, or yellow lights on such devices or vehicles.
   (B)   No person shall stand on or in proximity to a street or highway for
the purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked
or about to be parked on a street or highway.
(KRS 189.570 (21) (22))
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 74.13 PEDESTRIANS TO OBEY SIGNALS AT BRIDGES AND CROSSINGS.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate, or barrier, after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while such gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
(KRS 189.570 (17), (18))
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 74.14 PEDESTRIAN UNDER INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol or any kind of drug to a
degree which renders him a hazard shall not walk or be upon a highway except on
a sidewalk.
(KRS 189.570 (16))
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 74.15 PEDESTRIANS TO USE SIDEWALKS WHERE AVAILABLE.
   (A)   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
(KRS 189.570 (12), (13))
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 74.16 PEDESTRIANS NOT TO CREATE HAZARD.
   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and walk
or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
(KRS 189.570 (9))
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 74.17 DUTIES OF VEHICLE OPERATORS TOWARDS PEDESTRIANS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety
zone.
   (B)   This section shall not relieve the operator of an emergency vehicle
from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons using the
highway nor from the duty to exercise due care to avoid colliding with any
pedestrian.
(KRS 189.570 (7), (24))
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 74.18 PEDESTRIAN AND TRAFFIC SAFETY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      "GORE." A longitudinal point where a physical barrier or the lack of a
paved surface inhibits road users from crossing from a ramp or channelized turn
lane or channelized entering lane to the adjacent through lane(s) or vice
versa.
      "HEAVILY TRAVELED ROADWAY." The class of roads in the City of St.
Matthews that serve major traffic movements (high-speed, high volume) for
travel between major points, which include any roadway listed in division (E)
of this section. The St. Matthews Police Department and the St. Matthews Public
Works Department have inspected the heavily traveled and congested areas in the
city and designated in this section rights-of-way that are heavily traveled and
are congested in St. Matthews.
      "MEDIAN." The area between two roadways of a divided highway measured
from the edge of traveled way to edge of traveled way, which includes median
refuge island. The median excludes turn lanes and that portion of a median that
contains a sidewalk beyond the marked crosswalk or other legal pedestrian
crossing, and which is not a part of a median refuge island. The median width
might be different between intersections, interchanges and at opposite
approaches of the same intersection.
      "MEDIAN REFUGE ISLAND." Protected spaces placed in the center of a
Heavily Traveled roadway to facilitate pedestrian crossings which may include a
portion for walking or standing on such island while awaiting safe and legal
crossing of such roadway.
   (B)   Prohibited pedestrian activities on heavily traveled roadways, medians
and gores.
      (1)   Pedestrians are prohibited from crossing a heavily traveled roadway
at any place except a crosswalk. If there is no crosswalk on a heavily traveled
roadway, a pedestrian may cross a heavily traveled roadway only at an
intersection in which a traffic control signal or other device is in place. If
neither is present, a person may cross a heavily traveled roadway only at an
intersection.
      (2)   Pedestrians are prohibited from standing or being on a median or
gore of a heavily traveled roadway unless he or she is in the process of
legally crossing a heavily traveled roadway.
      (3)   No person, other than the occupant of a vehicle shall be on a
heavily traveled roadway, unless otherwise provided by law. Pedestrians while
upon a heavily traveled roadway, are prohibited from approaching a vehicle
operating on such heavily traveled roadway except for the actions contained in
division (4).
      (4)   Divisions (2) and (3) do not apply to:
         (a)   Any person in a legally parked vehicle at the curb or shoulder;
         (b)   Any person engaged in law enforcement or rescue activities or
with an emergency repair or maintenance of a vehicle;
         (c)   Any person entering a stopped vehicle as an invited passenger
where it is lawful to do so, including accessing taxicabs or public
transportation;
         (d)   Any person working on a heavily traveled roadway with a valid
permit; or
         (e)   Any person in compliance with the provisions of KRS 189.570(21)
and the following pedestrian safety measures:
            1.   Be at least 18 years of age;
            2.   Persons must wear vests as described by the Manual on Uniform
Traffic Devices;
            3.   Persons must place at least four orange cones per lane
utilized with a minimum height of at least 28 inches and be placed at a minimum
of 15 feet apart from the closest orange cone;
            4.   Persons must withdraw from an intersection to a place of
safety on a median or on the side of a heavily traveled roadway before the
light turns green or as soon as safely possible;
            5.   Persons must limit solicitation activity to one person for
each lane of traffic;
            6.   Persons must refrain from yelling at or otherwise distracting
motorists, and from touching any vehicle; and
            7.   Persons shall not conduct any solicitation activity before
sunrise or after sunset, as published daily by the National Weather Service, or
in inclement weather during which wipers or lights are necessary for safe
vehicular travel, or in the judgment of any law enforcement officer conducting
solicitation activity would constitute a hazard to individuals conducting
solicitation activity or to motorists.
      (5)   The following streets are designated heavily traveled roadways for
the purposes of this section:
         (a)   Shelbyville Road;
         (b)   Chenoweth Lane;
         (c)   Frankfort Avenue;
         (d)   New LaGrange Road;
         (e)   Westport Road;
         (f)   Breckenridge Lane;
         (g)   Dutchman's Lane;
         (h)   Kresge Way;
         (i)   Bowling Boulevard;
         (j)   Hubbards Lane;
         (k)   Browns Lane;
         (l)   Dutchman's Parkway;
         (m)   St. Matthews Avenue;
         (n)   Willis Avenue;
         (o)   Thierman Lane;
         (p)   Washburn Avenue;
         (q)   Massie Avenue;
         (r)   Ramps to any interstate highway; and
         (s)   Ten Pine Lane.
      (6)   This section also applies to the first 200 feet of any roadway that
intersects with a heavily traveled roadway, as measured from the point where
the roadway and the heavily traveled roadway intersect.
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any violation of this chapter shall subject the offender to a civil
penalty in an amount not less than $20 nor more than $100, each day of
violation being considered a separate violation. Such civil penalty may be
recovered by the city in a civil action as a debt if the offender has been
cited for the ordinance violation. The civil penalty may be used as an
alternative to or in conjunction with the criminal penalties authorized in
division (C)(2).
      (2)   Any person receiving a citation for a violation of this chapter
shall be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be fined in an amount
not less than $20 nor more than $100, each day of violation being considered a
separate violation.
(Ord. 19-13, passed 11-12-19; Am. Ord. 21-02, passed 1-12-21)
CHAPTER 75: COMMON CARRIERS
Section
   
75.01   Public policy as to trucks
   
75.02   Lights on common carriers
   
75.03   Height, width, length and weight limits for trucks
   
75.04   Increased height, length and weight limits on designated highways
   
75.05   Measuring or weighing vehicles; unloading excess weight
   
75.06   Display of plates; registration to be kept in truck
   
75.07   Enforcement; weighmaster
   
75.08   Evidence of ownership
   
75.09   Reduction of load and speed limits
   
75.10   Buses, height, length and weight limits
   
75.11   Special permits to exceed limits
   
75.12   Special permits to haul industrial materials; overweight vehicles
   
75.13   Trucks and trailers owned by governmental units; regulations
Buses; Taxicabs; Trains
   
75.20   Bus and coach loading and unloading zones
   
75.21   Stopping to discharge passengers
   
75.22   Unauthorized layover
   
75.23   Bus speed regulations
   
75.24   Bus routes
   
75.25   Taxicab stands; solicitation
   
75.26   Parking of taxicabs
   
75.27   Crossings blocked by trains
   
75.28   Grade crossing signs
Weight Limits
   
75.30   Gross weight limit on city streets
   
75.31   Limited access streets
   
75.32   Weight limit on Breckenridge Lane and Chenoweth Lane
   
75.33   Weight limit on Thierman Lane
§ 75.01 PUBLIC POLICY AS TO TRUCKS.
   It is declared to be the public policy of this city that heavy motor trucks,
alone or in combination with other vehicles, increase the cost of highway
construction and maintenance, interfere with and limit the use of highways for
normal traffic thereon, and endanger the safety and lives of the traveling
public, and that the regulations embodied in this traffic code with respect to
motor trucks, semitrailer trucks and semitrailers are necessary to achieve
economy in highway costs, and to permit the highways to be used freely and
safely by the traveling public.
(KRS 189.670)
§ 75.02 LIGHTS ON COMMON CARRIERS.
   The regulations in reference to lights shall not apply to common carrier
motor vehicles whose equipment is regulated by the rules of the Interstate
Commerce Commission.
(KRS 189.011(2))
§ 75.03 HEIGHT, WIDTH, LENGTH AND WEIGHT LIMITS FOR TRUCKS.
   A person shall not operate on any highway, except those highways designated
by the Secretary of Transportation under §
75.04, or those locally maintained under the provisions of KRS 189.222(11) or
KRS 189.230(4), any of the following trucks, trailers, manufactured homes, or
vehicles:
   (A)   Any motor truck, semitrailer, trailer, manufactured home, or vehicle
which exceeds 11½ feet in height or 96 inches in width, including any part of
the body or load;
   (B)   Any motor truck, except a semitrailer truck, which exceeds 26½ feet in
length, including any part of the body or load;
   (C)   Any semitrailer truck which exceeds 30 feet in length, including any
part of the body or load;
   (D)   Any truck, semitrailer truck or truck and trailer unit which exceeds
36,000 pounds gross weight, including the load;
   (E)   Any truck, semitrailer truck or tractor-trailer unit which exceeds a
gross weight equal to the sum of 600 pounds per inch of the combined width of
the tires upon which the vehicle may be propelled, but no more than 36,000
pounds; and
   (F)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, any truck hauling
building materials, or to a road construction project on a highway rated less
than the maximum weight provided above, may haul up to 80,000 pounds gross
weight, including the load, without a permit.
(KRS 189.221) Penalty, see §
70.99(B), (D), (E), (CC)
§ 75.04 INCREASED HEIGHT, LENGTH AND WEIGHT LIMITS ON DESIGNATED HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   The Secretary of Transportation in respect to highways which are a
part of the state maintained system, by official order, may increase on
designated highways or portions thereof, the maximum height, length and gross
weight prescribed in §
75.03, if in the opinion of the Secretary, the increased heights, length and
weight designated by him or her are justified by the strength, safety and
durability of the designated highways, and the highways do not appear
susceptible to unreasonable and unusual damage by reason of the increases and
the Secretary is authorized to establish reasonable classification of state
maintained roads and to fix a different maximum for each classification. Any
increase in the height, length or width of any motor truck or tractor
semitrailer combinations or any other vehicle combinations including any part
of the body or load or designation of highways to be used by the vehicles,
shall not, in any way, exceed the federal law or regulations thereunder or
jeopardize the allotment or qualification for federal aid funds of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky or exceed the following dimensions and weights:
      (1)   (a)   Height, for vehicles transporting motor vehicles, 14 feet;
         (b)   Height, for all other vehicles, 13½ feet;
      (2)   Length, semitrailers, 53 feet; trailers, 28 feet; motor trucks, 45
feet not to exceed two trailers per truck tractor;
      (3)   Weight, 20,000 pounds per single axle, with axles less than 42
inches apart to be considered as a single axle; 34,000 pounds on two axles in
tandem arrangement which are spaced 42 inches or more apart and less than 96
inches apart; 50,000 pounds on three axles which are spaced 42 inches or more
apart and less than 120 inches apart. No single axle in any arrangement shall
exceed 20,000 pounds or 700 pounds per inch of the aggregate width of all the
tires on a single axle, whichever is less. The total gross weight of the
vehicle and load shall not exceed 80,000 pounds;
      (4)   Except on the interstate highway system, a tolerance of not more
than 5% per axle load shall be permitted before a carrier is deemed to have
violated division (A)(3). The gross weight shall not exceed 82,000 pounds;
      (5)   Truck tractor, semitrailer and trailer combinations and other
vehicle combinations may be operated only on those parts of the federal aid
highway system and the state maintained system which have been designated by
the Secretary of Transportation by official order as safely allowing this.
   (B)   In addition to the provisions of this section, vehicles with a gross
weight up to 80,000 pounds may travel on any state highway in the Commonwealth
without obtaining a special permit, if the weight does not exceed any limits
mandated by federal law or regulation, any posted bridge weight, or the weight
limits of the size and type of vehicle established under division (A)(3)above,
and if the vehicle is transporting any of the following:
      (1)   Meats or agricultural crop products originating from a farm to
first market;
      (2)   Livestock or poultry from their point of origin to first market. As
used in this section “LIVESTOCK” means cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses,
alpacas, llamas, buffaloes, or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine,
caprine, equine, or camelid species;
      (3)   Primary forest products, including but not limited to sawdust, wood
chips, bark, slabs, or logs originating from their points of origin to first
market; or
      (4)   Supplies, materials or equipment necessary to carry out a farming
operation engaged in the production of agricultural crop products, meats,
livestock or poultry.
   (C)   The following vehicles registered under KRS 186.050 may exceed the
gross weight provisions set forth in division (A)(3) of this section by a
weight tolerance of 10%, except on the interstate highway system:
      (1)   Vehicles that are engaged exclusively in the transportation of
items listed in division (B)(1), (2), and (3) of this section; and
      (2)   Vehicles that are engaged exclusively in the transportation of feed
for livestock or poultry.
   (D)   Vehicles exclusively engaged in the transportation of motor vehicles,
unmanufactured tobacco or unmanufactured tobacco products may, on those
highways which are a part of the state maintained system and which have been
designated by the Secretary of Transportation by official order as safely
allowing this, attain the maximum lengths excluding the usual and ordinary
bumper overhang of the transported vehicles;
   (E)   Vehicles engaged exclusively in the transportation of farm or primary
forestry products and registered under KRS 186.050(4) or 186.050(9) and
vehicles engaged exclusively in the transportation of ready-mixed concrete
shall be excluded from the axle weight provisions, except on interstate
highways, and subject only to total gross weight provisions.
   (F)   Vehicles designed for and engaged exclusively in the collection and
hauling of refuse and registered under KRS 186.050(3)(b) shall be excluded from
the axle weight provisions, except when in operation on the federal interstate
system, and subject only to total gross weight provisions.
   (G)   The Secretary of Transportation may by order increase the weight and
height limits prescribed by this traffic code for motor vehicles while being
operated exclusively on roads or highways being constructed, reconstructed or
repaired under contract with the department of transportation by the contractor
or subcontractor, agent or employee thereof.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this traffic code, the
Secretary of Transportation shall not authorize the operation of any motor
vehicle or combination of motor vehicles, upon any part of the federal aid
highway system or state parkway system, which exceeds the following dimensions
and weights:
      (1)   Width, 102 inches, including any part of the body or load; or
      (2)   Weight, 20,000 pounds per single axle, with axles less than 42
inches apart to be considered as a single axle; 32,000 pounds on two axles in
tandem arrangement which are spaced 42 inches or more apart and less than 96
inches apart; 48,000 pounds on three axles which are spaced 42 inches or more
apart and less than 120 inches apart. The total gross weight of the vehicle and
load shall not exceed 73,280 pounds. If any federal law or laws or regulations
thereunder are hereafter enacted authorizing weights and dimensions in excess
of those set out in division (H) (1) and (2), the Secretary of Transportation
may by official order increase the maximum weights and dimensions but the
increased weights and dimensions shall not exceed those set out in this
section.
   (I)   Except on the interstate highway system, vehicles engaged exclusively
in the transportation of crushed stone, fill dirt and rock, soil, bulk sand,
coal, phosphate muck, asphalt, concrete, solid waste, tankage or animal
residues, livestock, feed for livestock or poultry, and agricultural products
shall be permitted a tolerance of 10% of the axle weight provisions before a
carrier is deemed to have violated division (A)(3) of this section.
(KRS 189.222(1) - (5), (7) - (10)) Penalty, see §
70.99(B), (D), (E), (CC)
§ 75.05 MEASURING OR WEIGHING VEHICLES; UNLOADING EXCESS WEIGHT.
   Any peace officer having reason to believe that the height, length, width or
weight of any motor truck, semitrailer truck, or trailer, is in excess of the
maximum limits prescribed by §§
75.03 and
75.04(A) or permitted by any special permit issued under §
75.12 and in the possession of the operator, may measure it or weigh it either
by portable or stationary scales, and may require it to be driven to the
nearest scales, if such scales are within a distance of five miles from the
point at which the vehicle is first directed to stop. If the officer shall
determine that the operation of the motor truck, semitrailer, or trailer, was
unlawful, he shall require the operator of the motor truck, semitrailer truck,
or trailer to unload that portion of the load necessary to decrease the gross
weight of the vehicle to the maximum gross weight permitted under the terms of
§§
75.03,
75.04(A), or of
75.12, or he or she may, at the election of the operator, permit the operator
to move the vehicle with its load to the nearest city or nearest court having
jurisdiction, at which place the excess load shall be unloaded. The excess load
shall be unloaded at the sole risk of the owner. The refusal of the operator to
permit his motor truck, semitrailer truck, or trailer to be measured or
weighed, or to proceed to a scale, or to unload the excess load, shall
constitute a violation of §§
75.07 through
75.09.
(KRS 189.223)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (B), (D), (E)
§ 75.06 DISPLAY OF PLATES; REGISTRATION TO BE KEPT IN TRUCK.
   Every motor vehicle licensed under KRS 186.050 (3) through (14) shall
display all plates issued by the county clerk. Except as provided in KRS
186.045, the registration receipt shall be kept in the truck at all times and
shall be available for inspection.
(KRS 189.260)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 75.07 ENFORCEMENT; WEIGHMASTER.
   (A)   The department of highways may take such actions, and may promulgate
administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A, as are necessary
and proper to carry out the purposes of §§
70.06,
75.03,
75.04,
75.05,
75.07, and
75.08, including, but not limited to, the erection, establishment, and
maintenance of permanent or portable scales.
   (B)   The department of Kentucky state police is authorized to employ
commercial motor vehicle inspectors and such other employees as may be
necessary to operate any scales erected or established, and commercial motor
vehicle inspectors employed under this section shall have the authority of
peace officers for the purpose of enforcing §§
70.06,
75.03,
75.04,
75.05,
75.07, and
75.08, and other statutes relating to motor vehicles, and for no other purpose.
A previous period of residence within the city shall not be required of any
peace officer appointed under this section.
(KRS 189.227) Penalty, see §
70.99 (B), (D), (E)
§ 75.08 EVIDENCE OF OWNERSHIP.
   For the purposes of §§
75.03,
75.04,
75.05,
75.07, and
75.08, proof of the registration of any vehicle in the name of any person,
shall be prima facie evidence of ownership of the vehicle by the person in
whose name it is registered, and each violation by an owner, whether or not
with the same vehicle, shall constitute a separate offense by that owner.
(KRS 189.228)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (B), (D), (E)
§ 75.09 REDUCTION OF LOAD AND SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Except as provided by KRS 189.2226, KRS 189.222 and KRS 189.221(6),
the Department, in respect to state and federal highways, and county judge/
executives, in respect to county highways, may prescribe, by notice as provided
in division (B) of this section, load and speed limits lower than the limits
prescribed in §
75.03 and §
71.20 (D), respectively, if in their judgment any highway may, by reason of its
design, deterioration, rain or other natural causes, be damaged or destroyed by
motor trucks or semitrailer trucks, if their gross weight or speed exceeds
certain limits. The Department or fiscal court, may, by like notice, regulate
or prohibit the operation of motor trucks or semitrailer trucks on state
highways or county roads for limited periods of specified days, or parts of
days, if their load and speed exceed those limits, if in their judgment,
regulation or prohibition is necessary, by reason of traffic density or
intensive use by the traveling public, to provide for the public safety and
convenience on the highway.
   (B)   The Department, in respect to bridges on the extended weight coal haul
system defined in KRS 177.9771, may prescribe, by notice, as provided in
division (C), gross weight limits lower than the limits prescribed in KRS
177.9771, when in its judgment any bridge on the extended weight coal haul road
system may, by reason of its design or deterioration, be damaged or destroyed
to the point of catastrophic failure by motor vehicles, if their gross weight
exceeds certain limits. For the purpose of this section, all bridges shall
conform with KRS 177.9771(4)(a) through (d).
   (C)   The notice or the substance of it shall be posted at conspicuous
places at the termini of and at all intermediate crossroads and road junctions
with the section of the highway to which the notice applies. After a notice has
been posted, a person shall not operate any motor truck or semitrailer truck
contrary to its provisions.
   (D)   A fiscal court shall require all persons applying for a permit issued
under KRS 189.212 to enter into a cooperative agreement with the fiscal court.
The cooperative agreement shall provide for an equitable apportionment of the
incremented costs for design, maintenance, construction, or reconstruction of
those roads and bridges on which the person will be operating under the permit
issued in KRS 189.212. A fiscal court may require as part of a cooperative
agreement for the person to give the fiscal court a bond to ensure payment of
the equitable costs associated with the permit issued under KRS 189.212. All
funds collected under this division shall be expended on those roads covered by
the cooperative agreement.
   (E)   A fiscal court shall not be relieved of expending it normal routine
maintenance on all roads covered by cooperative agreements under the provisions
of KRS 189.230.
   (F)   A person who entered a cooperative agreement with a fiscal court under
provisions of division (D) of this section may terminate the agreement buy
submitting written notice to the fiscal court. If a person terminates a
cooperative agreement with a fiscal court, the permit issued under KRS 189.212
shall immediately be revoked by the fiscal court.
(KRS 189.230)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (B), (CC)
§ 75.10 BUSES, HEIGHT, LENGTH AND WEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate on any highway, except highways designated by
the city pursuant to division (B), any motor bus which exceeds, including any
part of the body or load, 11 feet six inches in height, 40 feet in length, 20
tons in gross weight, or 96 inches in width, exclusive of any required safety
equipment.
   (B)   The city may increase the maximum height of a motor bus to 12 feet six
inches and the maximum width of a motor bus to 102 inches, exclusive of any
required safety equipment and tire bulge due to loads, if in the opinion of the
city the increased height and width designated by it is justified by the width
of the highways. However, any increase in the width of motor buses or
designation of highways to be used by them shall not, in any way, exceed the
federal law or regulations thereunder or jeopardize the allotment or
qualification for federal aid funds of the city.
(KRS 189.265) Penalty, see §
70.99(A)
§ 75.11 SPECIAL PERMITS TO EXCEED LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The Department may issue permits for the operation of motor
vehicles, manufactured homes, recreational vehicles, boats, or any other
vehicle transporting a nondivisible load, whose gross weight including load,
height, width or length exceeds the limits prescribed by this chapter or which
in other respects fail to comply with the requirements of this chapter. Permits
may be issued by the department for stated periods, special purposes and
unusual conditions, and upon such terms in the interest of the public safety
and the preservation of the highways as the Department may require.
      (2)   Subject to the limitations in division (D) below, the Department
shall promulgate administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A
to set fees for permits established under this section.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (H) of this section, the Department
may, at the request of an applicant, issue a single-trip permit regardless of
the type of vehicle or equipment being transported that exceeds the weight or
dimension limits established by this chapter if the load being transported is a
nondivisible load.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (H) of this section, the
Department may, at the request of an applicant, issue an annual permit
regardless of the type of vehicle or equipment being transported that exceeds
the weight or dimension limits established by this chapter if the load being
transported is a nondivisible load.
      (2)   The vehicle operating under a permit issued under this section
shall not exceed 16 feet in width exclusive of usual and ordinary overhang, 120
feet in length including a towing vehicle and trailer combination, 13 feet six
inches in height, or 160,000 pounds.
   (D)   The Department shall establish the following annual permits to
transport farm equipment, with the listed fee limits:
      (1)   For equipment less than or equal to 14 feet in width, $80; and
      (2)   For equipment that exceeds 14 feet in width, when transported from
a dealership to a farm, from a farm to a dealership, or from a dealership to a
dealership, $150.
   (E)   Permits issued under this section shall be for nondivisible loads and
shall be valid statewide; however, the Department may, as a condition of
issuing an annual or single-trip permit, limit the overdimensional vehicle to
specified routes, exclude certain highways, or even cancel an applicant’s
permit if an unreasonable risk of accident or an unreasonable impedance of the
flow of traffic would result from the presence of the overweight or
overdimensional vehicle. A person who applies for, and accepts, a permit issued
under this section is acknowledging that the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet is
not guaranteeing safe passage of vehicles by issuing the permit. A person who
applies for, and accepts, a permit issued under this section agrees to measure
all clearance of highway structures, both laterally and vertically, prior to
passage of the person’s vehicles along the routes specified in the permit. A
person who applies for, and accepts, a permit issued under this section is
classified as a bare licensee whose duty is to assume sole risk involved in
using Kentucky’s highways without warranty of accuracy.
   (F)   The Department shall promulgate administrative regulations under KRS
Chapter 13A to establish requirements for escort vehicles, safety markings, and
other safety restrictions governing the operation of an overweight or
overdimensional vehicle. The department shall provide each applicant for an
annual or single-trip permit issued under this section a copy of all
restrictions associated with the overweight or overdimensional permit at no
charge to the applicant. The Department shall be prohibited from raising the
permit fee established in division (B) and (C) of this section by levying
additional fees for an overweight or overdimensional permit through the
administrative regulation process.
   (G)   (1)   Notwithstanding KRS 189.269, the department may, at the request
of an applicant who is a transporter of manufactured housing, issue an annual
permit that exceeds the weight or dimension limits established by this chapter
if the load being transported is a nondivisible load.
      (2)   The vehicle operated shall not exceed 16 feet in width exclusive of
usual and ordinary overhang, 120 feet in length including a towing vehicle and
trailer combination, 15 feet in height, or 160,000 pounds.
      (3)   The holder of a permit issued under this subsection shall, when
transporting a manufactured home:
         (a)   Abide by all escort requirements, safety markings, and other
safety restrictions governing overweight and overdimensional vehicles; and
         (b)   Equip each truck operating under a permit with global
positioning system technology that keeps a record of locations traveled. The
travel records of trucks operating under a permit shall be open to inspection
by the Transportation Cabinet.
      (4)   Any person with a permit under this subsection who operates a
vehicle greater than 13 feet six inches in height while operating in a
restricted area designated by the Transportation Cabinet shall be fined $1,000.
   (H)   The Cabinet shall not issue an annual permit under this section if the
person applying for the permit is eligible for an annual permit issued under
KRS 189.2716 or 189.2717.
   (I)   The Department may require the applicant to give bond, with the
approved surety, to indemnify the state or counties against damage to highways
or bridges resulting from use by the applicant. The operation of vehicles, in
accordance with the terms of the permit issued under this section shall not
constitute a violation of this chapter if the operator has the permit, or an
authenticated copy of it, in his or her possession.
   (J)   Any person transporting a parade float which exceeds the dimensional
limits on a highway over which it is transported shall be required to obtain a
permit as required in division (B) of this section. If the float is being used
in conjunction with a parade to be held within the boundaries of the
commonwealth, no fee shall be assessed by the department to issue the permit.
   (K)   A person shall not operate any vehicle in violation of the terms of
the permit issued under this section.
(KRS 189.270(1) - (11)) Penalty, see §
70.99(B), (CC)
§ 75.12 SPECIAL PERMITS TO HAUL INDUSTRIAL MATERIALS; OVERWEIGHT VEHICLES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of laws, the bureau of vehicle
regulation may issue special permits to the owners, operators or lessees of
motor vehicles for the purpose of hauling industrial materials whose gross
weight or dimensions, including vehicle and load, exceeds the limits prescribed
by this traffic code or which in other respects fails to comply with the
requirements of this traffic code. A separate permit shall be required for each
vehicle. Permits issued in accordance with this section shall be issued:
      (1)   For specified materials only and shall designate the portions of
the state primary road system over which the vehicle may operate pursuant to
the permit;
      (2)   For a stated period of time not to exceed three years, and an
existing permit may be renewed pending an inspection by the Cabinet of the
routes listed on the permit; and
      (3)   Upon the terms and conditions as the Cabinet may, in its
discretion, require in the public interest.
(KRS 189.271(1))
   (B) The bureau shall not issue a permit under this section for a vehicle
whose gross weight, including vehicle and load, exceeds the maximum gross
weight as provided in §
75.04.
   (C)   The cabinet shall not issue a permit under this section for a vehicle
whose dimensions, including vehicle and load, exceed the maximum dimension as
provided in KRS 189.222.
   (D)   A person shall not operate a motor vehicle in violation of the terms
and conditions of any permit issued by the city pursuant to this section.
   (E)   As used in this section, industrial materials shall mean all cargo,
whether divisible or indivisible, which a motor vehicle transports in the usual
and ordinary course of business and shall specifically include, but not be
limited to, agricultural products, minerals or natural resources transported by
a motor vehicle.
   (F)   The city may:
      (1)   Exercise general supervision of the administering and enforcement
of this section.
      (2)   Adopt rules and regulations with respect to the issuance of a
permit, including, but not limited to, rules and regulations concerning the
duration of permits and weight limits for various types of vehicles, materials
and highways.
      (3)   Adopt rules and regulations with respect to the amount, terms and
conditions of the bond and the sufficiency of the surety of the bond required
by this section.
      (4)   Issue, continue in effect, revoke, modify or deny, under conditions
as the city may prescribe, permits provided for under this section.
Penalty, see §
70.99(B), (CC)
§ 75.13 TRUCKS AND TRAILERS OWNED BY GOVERNMENTAL UNITS; REGULATIONS.
   Sections
70.06,
71.33,
75.03 through
75.05, and
75.07 through
75.09 shall not apply to motor trucks, semitrailer trucks or trailers owned by
the United States, the state, or any agency of them, or any county.
(KRS 189.280 (1))
BUSES; TAXICABS; TRAINS
§ 75.20 BUS AND COACH LOADING AND UNLOADING ZONES.
   Every person, firm, or corporation operating motor buses or trolley coaches
on the streets of the city for compensation or gain, shall locate, subject to
the approval of the director of works, and maintain uniform loading and
unloading zones for passengers. All loading and unloading zones shall have
signs posted specifying "coach stop" which shall be uniform in color and
design. The location of the signs shall be considered the boundary of the
loading zone in the direction in which the traffic is flowing. 
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
§ 75.21 STOPPING TO DISCHARGE PASSENGERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any motor bus or trolley
coach to receive or discharge passengers at any other place than at a
designated coach stop, except in case of a public emergency.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any bus or trolley coach to
receive or discharge passengers in a coach stop without first having stopped
such bus or trolley coach with its two right wheels within 12 inches of and
parallel with the curb, provided the coach stop is at least 75 feet long and is
free of parked vehicles or other obstructions.
   (C)   The Department of Public Works shall erect and maintain proper signs
and the markings within the coach stop controlling the parking of other
vehicles therein, where deemed necessary by the Director of Works.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54) Penalty, see §
70.99(G)
§ 75.22 UNAUTHORIZED LAYOVER.
   It shall be unlawful for any bus or trolley coach to remain standing on any
street for a period exceeding three minutes, except at a designated and
properly marked “lay-over,” the location of which has been approved by the
Director of Works.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54) Penalty, see §
70.99(H)
§ 75.23 BUS SPEED REGULATIONS.
   The operator of any bus or trolley coach shall comply with the maximum rate
of speed regulations for passenger vehicles as specified in §
71.20, provided that under ordinary traffic conditions no bus or trolley coach
shall be operated at a rate of speed lower than ten miles per hour.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54) Penalty, see §
70.99(A)
§ 75.24 BUS ROUTES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any bus or trolley coach to engage
in the business of transportation on any street, or part thereof, which is not
part of a bus route approved by the director of works, over which the bus has
been authorized to operate. No such bus route shall be established until the
director of works has made a study of traffic conditions. In an emergency case
the chief of police shall have authority to alter and establish bus routes in
accordance with the provisions of §
70.11.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (A)
§ 75.25 TAXICAB STANDS; SOLICITATION.
   (A)   The director of works shall establish taxicab stands within the
business district, and may establish stands on any street where deemed
desirable. Duly licensed taxicabs and vehicles for hire authorized to do so by
permit, may park within the taxicab stands, and they shall be for their
exclusive use. Such permit is subject to regulations applicable to loading
zones set out in §§
77.07 and
77.08
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a taxicab or vehicle for hire
to cruise or to solicit in a loud or offensive tone or at a greater distance
than 15 feet from his vehicle.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (G)
§ 75.26 PARKING OF TAXICABS.
   It shall be unlawful to stop at any time any taxicab or any vehicle for
hire, on any street within the business district, for a period of time longer
than is necessary for the loading and unloading of passengers provided that
loading and unloading shall not consume more than 3 minutes, except at
designated taxicab stands as herein provided.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (H)
§ 75.27 CROSSINGS BLOCKED BY TRAINS.
   It shall be unlawful for one or more trains to be so operated as to prevent
the use of a grade crossing by vehicles for a period of time exceeding 5
minutes.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (DD)
§ 75.28 GRADE CROSSING SIGNS.
   (A)   For the protection of life and property, all steam railroads and
electric interurban companies are required to erect and maintain suitable signs
to be approved by the director of works visible by day and by night and to
place suitable markings at all grade crossings of steam railroads and electric
interurban roads not protected by gates or other suitable mechanical warning
devices over which trains or cars are regularly operated and to require all
vehicles to come to a full stop before entering grade crossings. It shall be
unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to cross any grade crossing marked by
a suitable stop sign or marking without first bringing the vehicle to a full
stop.
   (B)   All railroad or railway companies or corporations operating or
propelling freight or passenger cars by steam or other power along or upon the
public ways or streets of the city, not included in division (A), shall, at
their own cost, cause to be erected and maintained at all the public ways or
street crossings of their respective lines of railroad or railway tracks within
the city limits standard railroad crossing signs visible by day and by night,
which signs are to be approved by the director of public works.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (DD)
WEIGHT LIMITS
§ 75.30 GROSS WEIGHT LIMIT ON CITY STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or other person to drive or cause to be
driven a motor vehicle upon the public streets of the city if the gross weight
of the vehicle exceeds 18,000 pounds. However, this shall not apply to motor
vehicles operating on Lexington Road, Frankfort Avenue, Shelbyville Road, or
Westport Road, within the city.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (EE)
§ 75.31 LIMITED ACCESS STREETS.
   (A)   The following roads are limited access roads within the city.
Chenoweth Lane, Breckenridge Lane, Browns Lane, and Willis Avenue shall not be
used for vehicular traffic by any vehicle having a gross weight in excess of
16,000 pounds.
   (B)   Vehicles used for public transportation, emergency vehicles, such as
fire, police and ambulance vehicles, and other emergency equipment, that
procure a permit from the city clerk, approved by the director of public works,
shall be specifically exempted from the operation or effect of this section.
(Ord. 11, passed 5-8-51)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (FF)
§ 75.32 WEIGHT LIMIT ON BRECKENRIDGE LANE AND CHENOWETH LANE.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, driver or agent to drive or cause to be
driven a motor vehicle upon the public streets known as Breckenridge Lane and
Chenoweth Lane within the city if the gross weight of the vehicle exceeds
18,000 pounds.
(Ord. 11, passed 11-27-56)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (EE)
§ 75.33 WEIGHT LIMIT ON THIERMAN LANE.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a commercial vehicle on that portion of
Thierman Lane between Oechsli Avenue and Lyndon Way, except for the purpose of
loading and making deliveries. However, this section shall not apply to fire
trucks, ambulances, motor vehicles operated by the humane society or the dog
pound, and shall not apply to trucks of not more than 1/2 ton capacity, or
service trucks used for the rendering of service within this portion of
Thierman Lane.
(Ord. 14, passed 6-24-75)
Penalty, see § 70.99 (GG)
CHAPTER 76: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 77: PARKING METERS
Section
   
77.01   Definitions
   
77.02   Installation
   
77.03   Time limitations
   
77.04   Maintenance of markings and meters
   
77.05   Parking fee
   
77.06   Street markings
   
77.07   Loading zones and taxicab stands
   
77.08   Loading in metered space
   
77.09   Proceeds from meter operation
   
77.10   Contracts of purchase
   
77.99   Penalty
§ 77.01 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   (A)   "VEHICLE." Any device in, upon, or by which any person or property is
or may be transported upon a street or highway, except those operated upon
rails or tracks.
   (B)   "PARK" or "PARKING." The stopping or standing of a vehicle, whether
occupied or not, upon a street otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of
and while actually engaged in receiving or discharging passengers, or in
obedience to traffic regulations, signs, or signals, or an involuntary stopping
of the vehicle by reason of causes beyond the control of the operator of the
vehicle, and shall not include commercially licensed vehicles actually engaged
in loading or unloading property or materials.
   (C)   "PARKING SPACE." The space or the section of the street adjacent to
the curb and indicated by the painted lines on the surface of the street,
extending from the curb into the street alongside of and adjacent to a parking
meter.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
§ 77.02 INSTALLATION.
   The director of works is authorized and directed to install parking meters
on any street or portion thereof in the city where engineering study shows the
need of a parking limit of 2 hours or less and where parking will not impede a
reasonable flow of traffic.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
§ 77.03 TIME LIMITATIONS.
   When parking spaces are indicated by painted lines upon the surface of the
streets as herein provided, and when parking meters are installed adjacent to
and adjoining the respective parking spaces, no vehicle shall remain parked
longer than is indicated by appropriate marking as the maximum parking limit on
these spaces. Unless otherwise specifically indicated by appropriate sign, the
parking limit on any parking meter shall be 90 minutes. The provisions of this
section shall apply between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. of any day.
The provisions of this section shall not be effective at other times or on
Sundays or holidays.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54; amend. Ord. 64, passed 10-28-77)
Penalty, see § 77.99
§ 77.04 MAINTENANCE OF MARKINGS AND METERS.
   When parking meters shall have been installed, the regulation, control,
operation, and use provided for in this chapter, and the maintenance and
replacement of meters and any and all street markings provided for shall be
vested in the director of works.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
§ 77.05 PARKING FEE.
   (A)   When any vehicle shall be parked in any parking space the owner,
operator, or manager of the vehicle shall, upon occupying the parking space,
immediately deposit a coin of the United States of America in the parking meter
alongside of or adjacent to the parking space, and the parking space may then
be used by the vehicle for a period of time not exceeding the limit indicated
by appropriate sign or marking (if not otherwise indicated, this period of time
shall not exceed 60 minutes).
   (B)   The rate of charge for parking shall be 5 cents per hour. Where the
meters are equipped therefor, fractions of time less than 60 minutes may be
paid for in one cent coins. If the vehicle shall remain parked within the
parking space longer than the period of time for which the coin is deposited,
and the parking meter displays a signal indicating illegal parking or
violation, the vehicle shall be considered as parking overtime. The parking
overtime of any vehicle shall be construed a violation of this chapter by the
owner, operator, or manager of the vehicle so parked.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21- 54)
Penalty, see § 77.99
§ 77.06 STREET MARKINGS.
   The director of works shall place and maintain painted lines or marks on the
street to designate the parking space for which the meter is to be used and
each vehicle parked alongside of or adjacent to any parking meter shall park
within the lines or marks established. It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle
across any line or mark, or to park any vehicle in a way that it shall not be
within the area designated by the lines or marks.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
Penalty, see § 77.99
§ 77.07 LOADING ZONES AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   The director of works is authorized to establish on any street or part
thereof, where parking meters are located as herein provided, loading zones and
taxicab stands that are necessary in the conduct of business and for the
convenience and necessity of the public. These loading zones and taxicab stands
shall not be provided with parking meters and shall be subject to all the
regulations and restrictions of any ordinance of the city relating to traffic
and traffic control.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
§ 77.08 LOADING IN METERED SPACE.
   Loading and unloading of commercially licensed vehicles may be carried on in
any parking space without depositing a coin in the meter alongside of and
adjacent to the space or spaces. All loading or unloading must be performed in
an expeditious manner and no vehicle may remain in a loading zone or parking
space for a period of time greater than necessary expeditiously to load or
unload.
(Ord. 15, passed 10- 21-54)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 77.09 PROCEEDS FROM METER OPERATION.
   It shall be the duty of the chief of police to make regular collections of
the money deposited in parking meters and to remove the sealed receptacles
containing the coins deposited in these meters and to deliver the sealed
receptacles with the seals unbroken to the director of finance as soon as
practicable. It shall be the duty of the director of finance to break the seals
and count the funds contained in the receptacles and deposit these funds to the
credit of the city in the designated depositories and create a fund called
"parking meter fund." This fund shall be disbursed upon order of and under the
direction of the city council for the following purposes only, and in the order
named.
   (A)   For payment of the purchase price and installation of meters;
   (B)   For maintenance, operation, repair, and replacement of meters, and
collection of deposits;
   (C)   For regulation and control of parking on the city streets, including
traffic engineering and enforcement;
   (D)   For traffic improvements, including the acquisition of off- street
parking facilities pursuant to KRS 93.351 through 93.356.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
§ 77.10 CONTRACTS OF PURCHASE.
   The mayor is authorized to enter into a contract or contracts for the
purchase of parking meters.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
§ 77.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
violation and shall be fined not less than $3 nor more than $25.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
CHAPTER 78: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking
   
78.01   Obstructional parking
   
78.02   Manner of parking
   
78.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
78.04   Stopping and parking
   
78.05   Loading and unloading
   
78.06   All night parking; abandoned vehicles
   
78.07   Parking on parade route
   
78.08   Owner responsibility
   
78.09   Parking of trucks, boats, trailers, and similar vehicles
   
78.10   Leasing certain property to be used as parking spaces
Traffic Schedules
   
78.21   Use of motor vehicles on Frankfort Avenue
   
78.22   Use of motor vehicles on Shelbyville Road
   
78.23   Use of city hall driveways
   
78.24   Parking on Westport Road for Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company
employees
   
78.25   Use of motor vehicles on McArthur Drive
   
78.26   Parking in a public alley
   
78.27   Parking on Breckenridge Lane
   
78.28   Parking on Dupont Circle, Dupont Road and Dutchman's Lane
   
78.29   Parking on Primrose Drive
   
78.30   Parking on Westport Road in unleased spaces
   
78.31   Parking on Chenoweth Lane
   
78.32   Parking on Bauer Avenue
   
78.33   Parking on west side of Chenoweth Lane
   
78.34   Parking on South Sherrin Avenue
   
78.35   Parking on Westport Road between Clover Lane and Ridgeway Avenue
   
78.36   Parking on Nanz Avenue
   
78.37   Parking on Staebler Avenue between St. Matthews Avenue and Chenoweth
Lane
   
78.38   Parking on Kennison Avenue
   
78.39   Parking of trucks, boats, trailers, campers, or buses
   
78.40   Parking on Ridgeway Avenue
   
78.41   Parking on Sears Avenue
   
78.42   Parking on St. Matthews Avenue
   
78.43   Parking restrictions in 300 block of Wallace Avenue
   
78.44   Parking restrictions on Massie Avenue
 
   
78.99   Penalty
PARKING
§ 78.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to leave any
commercial vehicle or any other thing that may be a nuisance or obstruction or
hindrance in or upon any street or alley or sidewalk within the city either
during the day or night.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
Penalty, see § 78.99
§ 78.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park a
vehicle (except within driveways, parking lots, and pull-offs that are in
compliance with city ordinance) in a manner other than with its right-hand side
toward and parallel with the edge of pavement, facing the direction of
vehicular travel, except for commercial loading and unloading on one-way
streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its 2
right wheels are within 6 inches of and parallel with the curb, except that on
one-way streets, where parking is permitted on the left side, the 2 left wheels
are to be within 6 inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except wagons
and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that this loading and
unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume more than 30
minutes. Such backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all times and on all
streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed interferes with the use
of the roadway of moving vehicles or buses, or occupies road space within 10
feet of the center line of the street, or blocks sidewalks. The animals
attached to a vehicle which has been backed to the curb shall be turned
parallel with the curb, in the direction of traffic on the same side of the
street.
   (D)   The director of works may establish diagonal parking at certain
places, requiring the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and
within a certain portion of the adjacent roadway. However, diagonal parking
shall not be established in the central traffic district or in any place where
the roadway space required would be within 10 feet of the center line of any
street. The director of works shall designate such places by suitable signs,
and shall indicate by markings on the pavement the required angle and the width
of the roadway space within which vehicles shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to park so that
any part of the vehicle shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or the
rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54; Am. Ord. 17-03, passed 2-28-17) Penalty, see §
78.99
§ 78.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stop a vehicle, leave it standing or cause it to stop
or to be left standing upon any portion of the right-of-way, unless it is
parked on the side of the roadway or street in the city, where such parking is
not prohibited and only as long as the vehicle so parked does not impede the
flow of traffic. This subsection shall not apply to:
      (1)   A vehicle that has been disabled on the right-of-way of such a
highway in such a manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid the
occupation of the shoulder of a state-maintained highway or impracticable to
remove it from the shoulder of the highway until repairs have been made or
sufficient help obtained for its removal. In no event shall a disabled vehicle
remain on the shoulder of a state-maintained highway for twenty-four (24) hours
or more;
      (2)   Motor vehicles when required to stop in obedience to the provisions
of any section of the Kentucky Revised Statutes or any traffic ordinance,
regulation or sign or the command of any peace officer;
      (3)   vehicles operating as common carriers of passengers for hire and
school buses taking passengers on such vehicle or discharging passengers there
from, provided that no such vehicle shall stop for such purposes at a place on
the highway which does not afford reasonable visibility to approaching motor
vehicles from both directions; or
      (4)   Any vehicle required to stop by reason of an obstruction to its
progress.
   (B)   When any police officer (or city Enforcement Officer) finds a vehicle
standing upon any city right-of-way in violation of this section, he may move
or cause to be moved the vehicle, or require the operator or other person in
charge of the vehicle to move it. The police officer (or city Enforcement
Officer) may cause the vehicle to be removed by ordering any person engaged in
the business of storing or towing motor vehicles to remove the vehicle to a
site chosen by such person. Ownership of the vehicle shall be determined by the
police officer’s (or city Enforcement Officer’s) enforcement agency through the
vehicle’s license plates, serial number or other means of determining
ownership. As soon as practicable, the police officer’s (or city Enforcement
Officer’s) enforcement agency shall notify the owner by mail that the vehicle
was illegally upon public property; the name and address of the storage
facility where the vehicle is located; that removal of the vehicle from the
storage facility will involve payment of towing and storage charges; and that
the vehicle may be sold pursuant to the provisions of KRS 376.275 if not
claimed within sixty (60) days. No notification shall be required if ownership
cannot be determined. In the event of a sale pursuant to KRS 376.275, the state
shall receive any proceeds after the satisfaction of all liens placed on the
vehicle.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be parked, stopped, or allowed to stand on the
shoulders of any toll road, interstate highway, or other fully controlled
access highway, including ramps thereto, nor shall any vehicle registered at a
gross weight of over forty-four thousand (44,000) pounds be parked, stopped or
allowed to stand on the shoulders of any state-maintained highway except that
in the case of emergency, or in response to a peace officer's signal, vehicles
shall be permitted to stop on the shoulders to the right of the traveled way
with all wheels and projecting parts of the vehicles, including the load,
completely clear of the traveled way. Parking of any vehicle which is disabled
on the shoulders of a toll road, interstate highway, other fully controlled
access highway, including ramps thereto, or any state-maintained highway not
mentioned in this section for twenty-four (24) hours continuously is prohibited
and vehicles violating this provision may be towed away at the cost of the
owner.
   (D)   When any police officer (or city Enforcement Officer) finds a vehicle
unattended upon any bridge or causeway or in a tunnel where the vehicle
constitutes an obstruction to traffic, the officer may provide for the removal
of the vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety as provided in
subsection (2) of this section.
   (E)   No person shall stop or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic control device, in the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities;
      (3)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (4)   Within an intersection;
      (5)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking;
      (6)   Within thirty (30) feet of a stop bar,(on either side of the
roadway) upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign or traffic control
signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (7)   Within 7-1/2 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (8)   Within 50 feet of the intersection of the curb lines of any
intersection controlled by a police officer or by a "Stop" and "Go" signal or
at an intersection with a boulevard, on the side of the street on which the
traffic approaches the intersection; or
      (9)   Within 25 feet of the intersection of the curb lines of any street
with another street 30 feet wide or wider, or within 10 feet where the
intersecting street is narrower than 30 feet.
   (F)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area.
   (G)   The restrictions in subsection (E) (5) of this section shall not apply
to sheriffs and their deputies or police officers when operating properly
identified vehicles during performance of their official duties.
   (H)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section shall be
fined not less than twenty dollars ($20) nor more than one hundred dollars
($100) for each offense. Each day during which a violation exists shall
constitute a separate offense. The provisions of
chapter 78 shall control the application and payment of civil fines and
penalties.
(Ord. 98-09, passed 5-26-98; Am. Ord. 17-03, passed 2-28-17)
§ 78.04 STOPPING AND PARKING.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of vehicles in
specific places or at specific times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of (F) below,
giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on any street
so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of (F)
below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent to any curb so
marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of (F) below,
in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle between the
hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any street so
marked.
   (F)   (1)   The City Engineer or Director of Public Works, with the
concurrence of the City Mayor, shall determine on what streets or portions
thereof stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under
authority of or by this traffic code, or any other ordinance, any parking limit
is imposed or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are
restricted to handicapped parking, it shall be the duty of the city, acting
through designated departments, to erect appropriate signs giving notice
thereof. However, in lieu of erecting such signs or in conjunction therewith,
the city may cause the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which
parking is prohibited at all times to be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No such regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the
signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the
time of any alleged offense, except in case of those parking restrictions which
by their very nature would not require such signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with (F) above, in each block
giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer than
specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so marked.
   (H)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section shall be
fined not less than twenty dollars ($20) nor more than one hundred dollars
($100) for each offense. Each during which a violation exists shall constitute
a separate offense.
(Ord. 98-04, passed 3-24-98; Am. Ord. 17-03, passed 2-28-17)
§ 78.05 LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   (A)   During the hours specified herein, it shall be unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to park a vehicle for a period of time longer than is
necessary for the loading or unloading of passengers or property, provided that
the loading or unloading of passengers shall not consume more than 3 minutes,
or the loading or unloading and delivery of property or materials more than 30
minutes in any of the following places.
      (1)   At any time in any street where the roadway is less than 20 feet
wide.
      (2)   Between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on any street within
the business district where the roadway is less than 30 feet wide; when so
required by the director of works and when the restriction is indicated by
proper signs and markings.
      (3)   In any "loading zone" between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
of any business day.
      (4)   At any place within 15 feet of a point directly in front of the
center of the entrance to any police or fire station, hospital, post office, or
hotel.
      (5)   At any time, at any place, within 15 feet of a point directly in
front of the center of the entrance to any public building between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on any business day.
      (6)   At any place within 25 feet of a point directly in front of the
center of the entrance to any railroad or interurban passenger station or bus
station at any time.
      (7)   At any place within 15 feet along the curb of a point on the curb
directly in front of the center of the entrance to any church, school, bank,
club, theatre, or any building used for public assembly during the hours while
the building is used and open to the public.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop the
vehicle within an officially established taxicab stand, or bus or coach stop at
any time. However, this shall not apply to the operators of duly licensed
taxicabs, or buses or trolley coaches, authorized by permit to occupy these
stands or to use bus or coach stops.
   (C)   The director of works is authorized and required to determine the
exact location and lengths and to establish "loading zones" within the business
district and in any "business district," and to indicate these loading zones by
suitable markings or signs. No person other than authorized by the department
of works shall erect any sign or shall place such markings. Loading zones shall
be established in accordance with the following rules.
      (1)   No more than 1/2 of the total curb length of any block shall be
reserved for loading zones within the business district, except that the entire
curb frontage may be so reserved, provided that there have been filed with the
director of works, applications for the establishment of loading zones, by the
owners of the buildings or business houses representing 50% or more of the curb
length of the other half of the total within the block.
      (2)   Curb space not to exceed 100 feet may be reserved temporarily or in
an emergency, at any place where required for public safety or convenience.
      (3)   Within the above limitations the director of works may establish
loading zones at the entrance of office buildings, department stores and other
private buildings, upon written application therefor by the owners of business
houses or their representatives. The director of works shall have the power to
issue or refuse permits for loading zones, and in deciding all applications
shall consider primarily the relationship of the loading zones applied for and
the public safety and convenience.
      (4)   Every permit when issued shall be for one year and the director of
works shall have the power either to renew the permit or to revoke it at any
time for cause deemed sufficient to him in the exercise of a reasonable and
sound discretion.
      (5)   Whenever a permit has been issued by the director of works the
applicant shall pay to the director of works $3 per lineal foot per year.
      (6)   The initial signs and markings shall be furnished by the director
of works. In the event that signs or markings are lost or otherwise need
replacement, the replacement shall be at the expense of the applicant.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
Penalty, see § 78.99
§ 78.06 ALL NIGHT PARKING; ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle on any
of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer.
Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or streets
of the city for a period of 24 hours, or longer, shall be deemed abandoned, and
shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city pertaining to
abandoned motor vehicles.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
Penalty, see § 78.99
§ 78.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The chief of police is authorized, whenever in his judgment it is
necessary, to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or
part thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade or procession, to
erect temporary traffic signs to that effect and to prohibit and prevent such
parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of these signs or directions.
(Ord. 15, passed 10-21-54)
Penalty, see § 78.99
§ 78.08 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found upon a street or highway in violation of any
provision of this code regulating the stopping, standing, or parking of
vehicles, and the identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or
person in whose name the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie
responsible for the violation.
(Ord. 21, passed 10-21-54)
§ 78.09 PARKING OF TRUCKS, BOATS, TRAILERS, AND SIMILAR VEHICLES.
    (A)   No truck, airplane, boat, housecar, mobile home, motor vehicle,
trailer, camper, or part of such vehicle shall be parked or stored in any front
yard or street side yard as defined or required in the zoning district
regulations or on a private driveway of a residential lot between a line along
the front of an existing building on the lot and the paved portion of the
public street, or on any street within an area zoned as a residential or
apartment district, or on any street at a place adjacent to such a district.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) of this section, the
following vehicles may be legally parked on a proper driveway on residential
property, provided such vehicle has no more than two axles and does not have
dual rear wheels:
      (1)   Passenger vehicles, including vans, having provisions for not more
than nine passengers, including driver;
      (2)   Pick-up trucks with a design load capacity of less than one ton,
customarily used by the driver as a means of transportation only.
      (3)   Any motor vehicle not referred to in divisions (A) or (B) of this
section may be temporarily parked upon any legal driveway for a period not
exceeding four hours while actually in process of loading or unloading persons
or property.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to allow parking in
any area where parking is prohibited by the applicable zoning regulations.
(Ord. 20, passed 1-11-83; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 3-9-93)
§ 78.10 LEASING CERTAIN PROPERTY TO BE USED AS PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   This section shall apply to all motor vehicle parking spaces at any
location owned or controlled by the city, including parking spaces on public
streets and other public ways, and city parking lots.
   (B)   The city may lease from any owner of real estate located within the
city areas to be used as parking spaces, upon any terms as the City Council may
determine.
   (C)   The city, acting through the Mayor, may lease or contract with any
person (as defined in KRS 446.010(33)), for the purpose of providing parking in
any area owned or controlled by the city to that person. The rates charged by
the city shall be nondiscriminatory and shall be paid, in advance, on a monthly
or quarterly basis at the election of the city.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sublease, for any period of
time, any parking space leased from the city for any amount in excess of the
rate charged by the city.
(Ord. 11, 1985, passed 7-23-85)
Penalty, see § 78.99
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
§ 78.21 USE OF MOTOR VEHICLES ON FRANKFORT AVENUE.
   The use of motor vehicles on the north side of Frankfort Avenue between
Chenoweth Lane and St. Matthews Avenue and on the south side of the street
between Breckenridge Lane and Meridian Avenue shall be regulated as follows.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle or to stop a motor
vehicle, except to load or unload passengers, on the north side of the 3900
block of Frankfort Avenue between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m., and
between 3:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m., except on Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays.
(Ord. 90-10, passed 8-28-90)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle on the north side of the
street continuously for longer than one hour between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and
6:00 p.m., except on Sundays.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle for longer than two hours
continuous time on Monday through Friday between 7:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., and
on Saturday between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., on the south side of
Frankfort Avenue (a/k/a Shelbyville Road) between Breckenridge Lane and
Meridian Avenue.
(Ord. 91-03, passed 6-11-91)
   (E)   The areas which may be used for parking motor vehicles on the street
shall be in accordance with lines made and signs erected and maintained by the
city police department and which shall be in such manner as will permit parking
without any interference with the use of crosswalks, driveways, alleys, spaces
designated as taxicab stands, or bus stops.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle at any time on the street
within a crosswalk, space designated as a taxicab stand, bus stop, or in any
manner which will block or interfere with the use of any driveway or alley.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for an eastbound motor vehicle on the street to
make a left turn onto Chenoweth Lane, and for a westbound motor vehicle on the
street to make a left turn onto Breckenridge Lane.
(Ord. 3, passed 2-23-60)
Penalty, see § 78.99
§ 78.22 USE OF MOTOR VEHICLES ON SHELBYVILLE ROAD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle, or to stop a
motor vehicle, except for loading or unloading of passengers, on Shelbyville
Road between St. Matthews Avenue and Willis Avenue on the west and the
Watterson Expressway on the east, which road shall include a 12-foot strip on
the north side of the paved portion of the road and a 12-foot strip on the
south side of the paved portion of the road.
(Ord. 4, passed 3-8-60)
Penalty, see § 78.99
§ 78.23 USE OF CITY HALL DRIVEWAYS.
    Vehicular traffic on the driveway from Thierman Lane to city hall, and on
the driveway from Ledyard Road to city hall, is regulated as follows.
   (A)   The use of the 2 driveways as a through street by persons operating
motor vehicles is prohibited.
   (B)   The use of motor vehicles on the 2 driveways is limited to city
personnel and to members of the public incidental to the transaction of
business with the city.
(Ord. 10, passed 9-11-62)
Penalty, see § 78.99
§ 78.24 PARKING ON WESTPORT ROAD FOR LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY
EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Patrons, or their agents, of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad
Company are authorized to park their motor vehicles, without charge, along that
portion of Westport Road hereinafter described, while loading or unloading
railroad cars on side track designated by the company as track no. 12.
   (B)   The portion of Westport Road along which parking is authorized shall
be that portion beginning at the intersection of St. Matthews Avenue with the
southerly right-of-way of the railroad, and thence extending westwardly 500
feet, more or less, to the western terminal of track no. 12 after the removal
of 476.5 feet of the westerly end of the track as it now exists, and as
provided in contract between the city and the company.
   (C)   Parking of other motor vehicles on the area is prohibited.
(Ord. 18, passed 9-10-68)
Penalty, see § 78.99
§ 78.25 USE OF MOTOR VEHICLES ON MCARTHUR DRIVE.
   (A)   Parking of motor vehicles on McArthur Drive, from Shelbyville Road
northward to Taggart Drive, between 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., is prohibited.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to service vehicles while making
deliveries or loading or unloading.
   (C)   This section shall to apply to the parking of vehicles in a space off
the paved portion of the street which has been provided by the abutting
property owner if the abutting property owner consents to the parking.
(Ord. 30, passed 11-11-69)
Penalty, see § 78.99
§ 78.26 PARKING IN A PUBLIC ALLEY.
   (A)   Parking of motor vehicles, at any time, on the portion of the public
alley hereinafter described, is prohibited.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to service vehicles while making
deliveries or loading or unloading.
   (C)   This public alley is that portion of the public alley, 10 feet wide,
as shown on the plat of St. Matthews Addition, recorded in the Jefferson County
Court Clerk's office in Plat and Subdivision Book 1, page 140, which begins at
the south side of Westport Road and extends southward along the west side of
Lots 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 of the subdivision.
(Ord. 32, passed 12-9-69)
Penalty, see § 78.99
§ 78.27 PARKING ON BRECKENRIDGE LANE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle, at any time, on either side of
Breckenridge Lane, between Dayton Avenue and Granview Avenue.
(Ord. 16, passed 11-9-71)
Penalty, see § 78.99
§ 78.28 PARKING ON DUPONT CIRCLE, DUPONT ROAD AND DUTCHMAN'S LANE.
   It shall be unlawful to stop a motor vehicle to load or unload cargo, or to
park any motor vehicle, at any time, on Dupont Circle, Dupont Road, or
Dutchman's Lane. This section shall not apply to the stopping of a motor
vehicle to allow passengers to get in or out of it.
(Ord. 3, passed 4-11-72)
Penalty, see § 78.99
§ 78.29 PARKING ON PRIMROSE DRIVE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle, except for loading or
unloading, at any time on either side of Primrose Drive from Westport Road
northwestward to the westerly line of Dellridge as extended across Primrose
Drive.
(Ord. 2, passed 2-13-73)
Penalty, see § 78.99
§ 78.30 PARKING ON WESTPORT ROAD IN UNLEASED SPACES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a motor vehicle to be parked in any one of
the spaces on the north side of Westport Road between Clover Lane and Chenoweth
Lane, available to the public on a lease basis, that is not leased.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any motor vehicle to be parked within any one
of the spaces that is leased unless the motor vehicle has affixed to the rear
windshield a sticker signed by the tenant of the space.
(Ord. 12, passed 7-10-73)
Penalty, see § 78.99
§ 78.31 PARKING ON CHENOWETH LANE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle, at any time, on either side of
Chenoweth Lane, from the south line of Massie Avenue southward to the right-of-
way line of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company.
(Ord. 9, passed 10-22-74)
Penalty, see § 78.99
§ 78.32 PARKING ON BAUER AVENUE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle, for longer than one hour of
continuous time, on either side of Bauer Avenue from Frankfort Avenue southward
to the corporate limits of the City of Louisville, between 7:00 a.m. and 6:00
p.m., except on Sundays.
(Ord. 13, passed 6-10-75)
Penalty, see § 78.99
§ 78.33 PARKING ON WEST SIDE OF CHENOWETH LANE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle, at any time, on the west side
of Chenoweth Lane, between Gilman Avenue and Elmwood Avenue.
(Ord. 12, passed 5-27-75)
Penalty, see § 78.99
§ 78.34 PARKING ON SOUTH SHERRIN AVENUE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle, for longer than 2 hours of
continuous time, within the 100 block of South Sherrin Avenue on either side,
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. every day except a Sunday or a
legal holiday.
(Ord. 23, passed 9-23- 75)
Penalty, see § 78.99
§ 78.35 PARKING ON WESTPORT ROAD BETWEEN CLOVER LANE AND RIDGEWAY AVENUE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle, at any time, on the north side
of Westport Road, between Clover Lane and Ridgeway Avenue.
(Ord. 1, passed 1-13-76)
Penalty, see § 78.99
§ 78.36 PARKING ON NANZ AVENUE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle, except during June,
July, and August, for longer than 2 hours of continuous time, from 9:00 a.m.
and 3:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, on each side of Nanz Avenue, between
Fairfax Avenue and Meridian Avenue.
(Ord. 4, passed 1-27-76)
   (B)   "Two Hour Parking Between 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. except Saturday and
Sunday" signs shall be placed along both sides of Nanz Avenue between Fairfax
Avenue and Sherrin Avenue in accordance with the Uniform Traffic Control
Devices Manual and in accordance with §
70.05. Parking in excess of two hours is prohibited in this area between the
hours of 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. except on Saturday and Sunday.
(Ord. 87-02, passed 2-10-87)
Penalty, see § 78.99
§ 78.37 PARKING ON STAEBLER AVENUE BETWEEN ST. MATTHEWS AVENUE AND CHENOWETH
LANE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle, on each side of Staebler
Avenue between St. Matthews Avenue and Chenoweth Lane, between 10:00 a.m. and
4:00 p.m., excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.
(Ord. 11, passed 5-11-76)
Penalty, see § 78.99
§ 78.38 PARKING ON KENNISON AVENUE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle on the north side of
Kennison Avenue, beginning with the lot bearing House No. 3909 westward to
Chenoweth Lane, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., Mondays through
and including Saturdays but excluding Sundays and legal holidays.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle on the south side of
Kennison Avenue, beginning with the lot bearing House No. 3912 westward to and
including the lot bearing House No. 3904, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:
00 p.m., Mondays through and including Saturdays but excluding Sundays and
legal holidays.
(Ord. 16, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 78.99
§ 78.39 PARKING OF TRUCKS, BOATS, TRAILERS, CAMPERS, OR BUSES.
   (A)   "Truck." A truck with a load capacity of over 1000 pounds. "Boat." A
rowboat, motor boat, or houseboat.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park a truck, trailer, camper, bus, or boat,
except for immediate loading or unloading.
      (1)   In the front yard or on private driveway of a residential lot
between a line along the front of an existing building on the lot and the paved
portion of the public street.
      (2)   On any street within an area zoned as a residential or apartment
district, or on any street and at a place adjacent to such a district.
(Ord. 31, passed 10-27-70)
Penalty, see § 78.99
§ 78.40 PARKING ON RIDGEWAY AVENUE.
   Except during June, July, and August it shall be unlawful to park a motor
vehicle for longer than 2 hours, from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Monday through
Friday, on each side of Ridgeway Avenue between Shelbyville Road and Westport
Road.
(Ord. 20, passed 11-22-77)
§ 78.41 PARKING ON SEARS AVENUE.
   "No Parking At Anytime" signs shall be placed along both sides of Sears
Avenue between Shelbyville Road and Lyndon Way in accordance with the Uniform
Traffic Control Devices Manual and in accordance with §
70.05. Parking at any time is prohibited in this area.
(Ord. 87-8, passed 5-26-87)
§ 78.42 PARKING ON ST. MATTHEWS AVENUE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle for longer than 2 hours
continuous time on the east side of St. Matthews Avenue from Shelbyville Road
north to the first alley north of Shelbyville Road.
   (B)   The fact that a car is registered in the name of a person, firm, or
corporation shall be a presumption that such owner is responsible for any
unlawful parking.
(Ord. 89-10, passed 6-13-89)
Penalty, see § 70.99(I)
§ 78.43 PARKING RESTRICTIONS IN 300 BLOCK OF WALLACE AVENUE.
   It shall be unlawful to park or stop a motor vehicle for longer than two
hours of continuous time in the following areas along the northeast side of the
300 block of Wallace Avenue, distances being measured along the northeast curb
of Wallace Avenue:
   (A)   Between the stop sign at Wilmington Avenue and a point 104 feet north
thereof.
   (B)   Between a point 129 feet north of the stop sign at Wilmington and a
point 175 feet north thereof.
(Ord. 90-05, passed - -90)
Penalty, see § 78.99
§ 78.44 PARKING RESTRICTIONS ON MASSIE AVENUE.
   (A)   “NO PARKING” signs shall be installed specifying no parking on both
sides of Massie Avenue from 4067 to 4077 Massie Avenue in accordance with city
Ordinance 98-04 and other applicable ordinances and statutes.
   (B)   No parking shall be enforced pursuant to the provisions of Ordinances
98-04, 98-05, 98-06 and 98-09 and KRS 189.450.
(Ordinance 99-19, passed 8-24-99)
Penalty, see § 78.99
§ 78.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Enforcement. Enforcement of this chapter may any penalty, or
combination of he penalties, or remedies, authorized by ordinance. Any
violation of this chapter shall subject the offender to fines, penalties, and
forfeitures that may be imposed by law and the city may secure injunctions and
abatement orders, when appropriate, to insure compliance with its ordinances as
authorized by KRS 83A.065.
   (B)   Criminal.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $100.
      (2)   Where Kentucky Revised Statues mandates a fine higher than that
stipulated herein, the fine contained in Kentucky Revised Statutes shall apply.
      (3)   Any continuing violation of this chapter shall be considered a
separate and distinct offense for each day on which a violation occurs or
continues, and a separate penalty may be imposed therefor.
   (C)   Civil.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall
subject the offender to a civil penalty in an amount equal to two times the
minimum fine prescribed in this chapter.
      (2)   The civil penalty provided herein may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender does not pay the penalty
within twenty (20) days after the offender has been cited for the ordinance
violation.
   (D)   Impoundment.
      (1)   Any vehicle abandoned or illegally parked on the public ways in
violation of this chapter may be removed at the direction of the police officer
(or city Enforcement Officer) to a tow lot designated by the city. The vehicle
may be reclaimed by the owner at the owner’s expense including all towing and
storage charges and payment of all fines imposed by the city.
      (2)   Any vehicle remaining in the possession of the contracted tow lot
to which it has been delivered and with which it has remained for a period of
sixty (60) days without being reclaimed by the rightful owner thereof, and
without the payment of the towing and storage charges thereon, may after
authorization of the city, be sold to pay the towing and storage, in accordance
with KRS 376.275.
      (3)   the owner of any motor vehicle may sign a waiver of notice of sale
and waiting period and permit the tow lot to sell the motor vehicle whenever he
or she deems it proper and necessary.
      (4)   No vehicle shall be released by the tow lot except on written order
from the police (or city Enforcement Officer).
(Ord. 17-03, passed 2-28-17)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.     ABANDONED VEHICLES
         
91.     ANIMALS
           
92.     STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
93.     FIRE SAFETY
         
94.     PROPERTY MAINTENANCE; NUISANCES
         
95.     PARKS AND RECREATION
         
96.   PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINERS
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Storing abandoned or junked vehicles on private property prohibited;
exception
   
90.03   Declaration of nuisance; responsibility for abatement
   
90.04   Additional remedy; notice; removal by city hearing
   
90.05   Removal by agreement
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ABANDONED VEHICLE." Any automobile or machine or parts thereof which is
left upon public or private property within the city under circumstances
indicating a desertion, relinquishment, non-use, or divestment so as to
indicate a discarded vehicle.
   "CITY." The City of St. Matthews.
   "DIRECTOR." Director shall mean the Chief of Police of the City of St.
Matthews, or his designated representative.
   "JUNKED VEHICLE." Any vehicle or parts thereof which does not have lawfully
affixed thereto both a current license plate and current motor vehicle
insurance and which, in the judgment of a reasonable, prudent man observing
community standards, is in one or more of the following conditions: rusted,
wrecked, partially dismantled or otherwise non-functional and which is not
functional as a vehicle. Junked vehicles may be deemed to include major parts
thereof, including but not limited to bodies, engines, transmissions or rear
ends.
   "PRIVATE PROPERTY." Any real property in the city which is not owned by the
City of St. Matthews, Jefferson County, Commonwealth of Kentucky or the federal
government, or property dedicated to public use.
   "PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY." Private property as defined above, located
in any area zoned residential by the city.
   "VEHICLE." Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a public highway, except devices moved by
human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks or an
agricultural vehicle not requiring a license to be operated upon a public
highway.
   "VEHICLE OWNER." Any individual, firm, corporation, or unincorporated
association with a claim of ownership or any legal or equitable interest in a
vehicle.
(Ord. 96-04, passed 5-28-96)
§ 90.02 STORING ABANDONED OR JUNKED VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY PROHIBITED;
EXCEPTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, store, leave or permit
parking or storing of any junked or abandoned vehicle of any kind, or part
thereof, for a period of time in excess of seven days, upon any private
residential property.
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to a vehicle in an enclosed building or
to a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful
place and manner, when necessary to the operation of such business enterprise,
or to a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the city.
(Ord. 96-04, passed 5-28-96)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.03 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE; RESPONSIBILITY FOR ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The accumulation and storage of one or more of such abandoned or
junked vehicles or part thereof as defined in §
90.01, on private property shall be deemed a nuisance.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the registered owner of the vehicle, the owner
of record of the property, and the person in possession of the private property
upon which such vehicle or part thereof is located, to abate the nuisance
through removal of the vehicle, or to have the same housed in a building where
it will not be visible.
(Ord. 96-04, passed 5-28-96)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.04 ADDITIONAL REMEDY; NOTICE; REMOVAL BY CITY HEARING.
   (A)   In addition to the penalties provided in §
90.99 the Director may issue written notice and order to the registered owner
of any abandoned or junked vehicle, or part thereof, which constitutes a
violation of the chapter or to the owner or person in possession of private
property upon which the abandoned or junked vehicle, or parts thereof, may be
situated requiring that the vehicle, or parts thereof, be removed from the
property or that the violation be otherwise removed and abated within ten days.
   (B)   The notice provided for in division (A) of this section may be served
upon the appropriate party either personally or by certified and regular mail
to the last known address of the appropriate party. If the notice is sent by
mail, the ten-day notice period shall commence two business days after the
notice is mailed. In addition, notice shall be conspicuously affixed to the
abandoned or junked vehicle or parts thereof.
   (C)   In the event that any person fails to comply with an order issued
pursuant to division (A) of this section, the Director or his designate may
have the abandoned or junked vehicle, or parts thereof, removed and disposed of
and may impose upon the person violating the order a charge to cover the direct
and indirect costs, if any, for the removal and disposition of the vehicle or
parts thereof.
   (D)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued pursuant to division (A) of
this section may request a hearing from the Director or his designee.
      (1)   Such request must be filed in writing with a $25 filing fee within
five days after the notice is served.
      (2)   The Director or his designate shall be the hearing officer.
      (3)   Removal under division (C) of this section shall be suspended
pending the hearing. The $25 filing fee may be refunded to the aggrieved person
if the hearing officer finds that this chapter has not been violated.
      (4)   Final determination concerning compliance shall be within the sole
discretion of the hearing officer.
(Ord. 96-04, passed 5-28-96)
§ 90.05 REMOVAL BY AGREEMENT.
   The Director, or his designate may, upon the proper execution of a waiver
and authorization agreement in a form approved by the Attorney for the city and
subject to the available resources thereof, remove or dispose of any abandoned
or junked vehicle, or parts thereof, at no cost to the person involved.
(Ord. 96-04, passed 5-28-96)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    Criminal Penalties. Violation of the provisions of this chapter or
failure to comply with any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor.
Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its
requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $100, or imprisonment for a period not to exceed 50 days, or both
such fine and imprisonment for each day's violation. Each day during which the
violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense for which a separate
fine may be imposed. No additional notice other than the notice for the
original offense shall be required to convict a person for violations resulting
from a continuation of such offense.
   (B)   Civil Penalties. Any violation of this chapter shall subject the
offender to a civil penalty in an amount equal to the minimum fine prescribed
by division (A) of this section. The civil penalty may be recovered by the city
in a civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender does not pay the
penalty within 20 days after the offender has been cited for the violation. The
civil penalty may be used as an alternative to or in conjunction with the
criminal penalties authorized in division (A) of this section. No additional
notice other than the notice for the original offense shall be required to
impose these civil penalties for violations resulting from a continuation of
the offense.
(Ord. 96-04, passed 5-28-96)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Restraint required
   
91.03   Dogs and cats to be licensed and vaccinated
   
91.04   Confinement of animals when in heat
   
91.05   Nuisance
   
91.06   Impounding
   
91.07   Interference with enforcement prohibited
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms shall mean:
   "ANIMAL." Any living creature, domestic or wild, including livestock,
poultry, pet rodents, pet birds, and vermin.
   "LEASH." A cord of sufficient size and strength to control the animal to
which it is attached and of no more than ten feet in length. Under no
circumstances shall verbal command or electronic command be considered a leash.
   "OWNER." Any person, partnership, company, or corporation owning, keeping,
or harboring animals.
   "PERSON." An individual, partnership, company, or corporation.
   "RESTRAINT." An animal shall be deemed to be under restraint only if on the
premises of its owner or if off the premises of its owner, accompanied by a
responsible person and attached to a suitable leash.
(Ord. 88-03, passed 5-10-88)
§ 91.02 RESTRAINT REQUIRED.
   All animals shall be kept under restraint at all times. No person shall
permit any dog to run at large anywhere out of doors in the city, except upon
the property of the owner. This chapter shall apply to all public places and to
all private property, except upon the property of the owner. No person shall
permit any dog to be out of doors in any place in the city unless the dog is on
a leash held by a person able to control the dog, except upon the property of
the owner. A dog may be left unattended out of doors in a yard with a fence
adequate to prevent the dog from leaving the yard.
(Ord. 88-03, passed 5-10-88)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.03 DOGS AND CATS TO BE LICENSED AND VACCINATED.
   All dogs and cats in the city shall be licensed and vaccinated against
rabies as required by Jefferson County Ordinance No. 4, Series 1984, as
amended.
(Ord. 88-03, passed 5-10-88)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.04 CONFINEMENT OF ANIMALS WHEN IN HEAT.
   Every female dog or cat in heat shall be confined in a building or secure
enclosure in such manner that such female dog or cat cannot come into contact
with another animal except for planned breeding.
(Ord. 88-03, passed 5-10-88)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.05 NUISANCE.
   No owner shall fail to exercise proper care and control of his animals so as
to prevent the following actions: excessive, continuous, or untimely barking or
howling; molesting of passersby; chasing of vehicles, including cycles;
attacking of domestic animals; trespassing upon school grounds; trespassing
upon private property; or damaging of property of any nature.
(Ord. 88-03, passed 5-10-88)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.06 IMPOUNDING.
   Any dog found in violation of this chapter or in violation of Jefferson
County Ordinance No. 4, Series 1984, as amended, may be detained by a police
officer and impounded in the Jefferson County Animal Shelter as provided in
said Jefferson County Ordinance No. 4, Series 1984, as amended.
(Ord. 88-03, passed 5-10-88)
§ 91.07 INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT PROHIBITED.
   No person shall in any matter interfere with, hinder, molest, or abuse any
officer or individual authorized to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 88-03, passed 5-10-88)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of §
91.07 shall be deemed guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and shall, upon
conviction, be punished by a fine not to exceed $500, or be imprisoned for not
less than 90 days nor more than one year or both so fined and imprisoned.
   (B)   Any person violating the remaining sections of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be punished
by a fine not to exceed $250 or be imprisoned for not more than 90 days or both
so fined and imprisoned. Each day a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 88-03, passed 5-10-88)
CHAPTER 92: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Encroachment Permit/License Agreement
   
92.01   Permit required for work in right-of-way
   
92.02   License agreement
   
92.03   Standards for work in right-of-way
   92.04   Standards for authorizing new connections
Obstructions
   
92.10   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
92.11   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
92.12   Material son street or sidewalk
Maintenance of Right-of-Way
   
92.15   Sidewalks
   
92.16   Front and side yard right-of-way
   
92.17   Driveways
Street Addresses
   
92.20   Display of street address required
   
92.21   Location, visibility, and size of address
   
92.22   Enforcing authority; identification of address by emergency or other
public service personnel
 
   
92.99   Penalty
ENCROACHMENT PERMIT/LICENSE AGREEMENT
§ 92.01 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR WORK IN RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   No person, company, or entity (including utilities), shall, without
first obtaining an Encroachment permit from the City of St. Matthews:
      (1)   Begin to construct, reconstruct, repair, cut, excavate, connect
onto, or alter, any City of St. Matthews public right-of-way, or structure
located the in.
      (2)   Exception for emergency work by Utility. In an emergency situation,
any public utility is allowed to work in the City of St. Matthews right-of-way,
as long as the encroachment permit application required herein is filed within
48 hours of the commencement of work.
   (B)   The city shall provide forms identifying the information required for
application for an encroachment permit (along with an application fee) and such
other information deemed necessary in the administration of this chapter,
providing, however, that a utility company may devise its own form, if the form
contains all of the information called for in the city form. The application
may be mailed or delivered to the city, or sent by facsimile/e-mail and shall
contain at a minimum:
      (1)   Name, address and telephone number of the entity for whose benefit
the work is proposed.
      (2)   Name, address and telephone number of the person who is doing the
actual work.
      (3)   Description of the proposed work, including construction detail,
location, and when the work will begin and when it is projected to be
completed.
   (C)   The city may deny an application for an encroachment permit. Said
denial shall be in writing and must specify the reasons for denial. Applicant
shall ha a right to appeal the decision to the city council, which appeal must
be in writing and must be received within ten days of the denial. Said appeal
will be docketed for review and decision at the next regularly scheduled city
council meeting, provided it is received at the city office at least seven days
prior to the meeting. If not so timely received, it shall be docketed for the
following regular meeting. Applicant will be allowed a reasonable time to
present any relevant evidence that supports applicant’s appeal. The decision of
the city council on the appeal must be in writing, with findings supporting
said approval or denial.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 2-14-17) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 LICENSE AGREEMENT.
   The city may allow structures to be located on city right-of-way, but only
if the city determines that allowing the structure is appropriate, safe and in
compliance with the City of St. Matthews Public Works and Assets Policy. Any
structure to be allowed to remain in the City of St. Matthews right-of-way,
must be subject to an approved license agreement between the City of St.
Matthews and the entity asking for permission to use the right-of-way. The
license agreement application process and requirement contained in the City of
St. Matthews Public Works and Assets Policy.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 2-14-17)
§ 92.03 STANDARDS FOR WORK IN RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement, or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized city
official and in accordance with the rules, regulations and specifications of
the city, including the City of St. Matthews Public Works and Assets Policy.
   (B)   The city shall require any person or entity requesting an encroachment
permit, to post a performance bond prior to initiating any work in the city, by
cash or certified check. The amount of the bond shall be that amount that the
city determines would be sufficient to fully repair any damages to the right-
of-way caused by the proposed encroachment, if the applicant fails in its
responsibility to fully restore the right-of-way as set out herein and in the
City of St. Matthews Public Works and Assets Policy. Upon successful completion
of the project, the permittee shall request an inspection by the city and the
bond shall be released if the city is satisfied that the restoration is
complete.
   (C)   All work must be conducted in compliance with the City of St. Matthews
Public Works and Assets Policy and shall not unreasonably interfere with
vehicular and pedestrian traffic, the demand and necessity for parking space
and the means of egress to and from the property affected and adjacent
properties. Excavations or openings shall be fully barricaded at all times to
prevent injury to persons or animals. Excavation or openings obstructing any
street, sidewalk or alley way shall be adequately lighted at night to prevent
injuries.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 2-14-17) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 STANDARDS FOR AUTHORIZING NEW CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   New or altered connections. If the applicant or application proposes a
new vehicular connection (or proposes an alteration of an existing vehicular
connection), onto St. Matthews right-of-way, added scrutiny and findings must
be part of the city's encroachment permit determination, including the
following objective, measurable criteria:
      (1)   Whether the parcel(s) benefitted by the connection has other,
reasonable vehicular access through other access points and the extent to which
the applicant would be adversely affected by denial of the encroachment permit.
      (2)   Whether, after review of the following criteria, city services or
safety will be adversely affected by approval of the new or altered connection:
         (a)   Whether the connection would allow an area with higher traffic
generation, or intensity of use, or which has a higher zoning classification,
to connect through areas of lesser intensity traffic generation, or intensity
of use, or lesser zoning classification.
         (b)   Whether the connection is through roadways which have many
residential driveways cuts and the city finds that the connection would create
an unreasonable amount of conflicting traffic interactions between through
traffic and vehicles exiting and entering residential driveways.
         (c)   Whether the roadway connection is onto a roadway with inadequate
pavement width; inadequate right of way for future improvements; no or few
sidewalks; heavy on-street parking usage; deteriorating or failing pavement or
road base; insufficient or damaged roadside drainage facilities.
         (d)   Whether the applicant is proposing adequate mitigation of any
impacts.
      (3)   The city may require the applicant to study the traffic implication
of the new or altered connection on the surrounding city intersections and
roadways, as part of its application for a new or altered connection, as well
as the feasibility of any possible mitigation of such impact. Any such traffic
studies shall be at the sole cost of the applicant. The scope (or necessity) of
any traffic study shall be established by the city at the time the application
is filed.
      (4)   The city may waive any of the application and approval standards,
if, in the city's sole determination, the vehicular connection constitutes a
minor and inconsequential connection to the city's public roadway system.
(Ord. 18-09, passed 9-25-18)
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 92.10 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement. Parking must conform to the parking regulations set out in
Chapter 78.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 2-14-17) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.11 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or the right-of-way
within the city by erecting any fence or structure, or permitting any fence or
structure to remain, with the exception of mailboxes and driveways that are
otherwise lawful and compliant.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 2-14-17) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.12 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No owner, occupant, or person having the care of a building or lot of
land, bordering on any right-of-way, shall permit the right-of-way to be
encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans, articles, debris, refuse, or substances
of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and unobstructed use thereof.
Objects or devices placed in the right-of-way by residents to direct or
obstruct vehicular travel are allowed only if an encroachment permit is
obtained in compliance with the City of St. Matthews Public Works and Assets
Policy.
   (B)   No owner, occupant, or person having the care of a building or lot of
land, bordering on any right-of-way, shall permit it to be encumbered with
grass, trees, or vegetative material of any kind, so as to interfere with the
free and unobstructed use thereof. The “sight triangle” described by the
applicable zoning regulations at each intersection shall be kept unobstructed
from vegetation. Branches, trees or shrubs shall not encroach upon any sidewalk
and a clear-space, eight feet in height and as wide as the sidewalk shall be
kept unobstructed.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 2-14-17) Penalty, see §
92.99
MAINTENANCE OF RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 92.15 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Snow removal. It shall be the duty of the owner, occupant, or person
having the care of a building or lot of land, bordering on any sidewalk in the
city to keep sidewalk abutting his or her premises free and clear of snow and
ice to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions and to
remove therefrom all snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing
weather conditions. A reasonable time will not ordinarily exceed 12 hours after
the abatement of any storm during which the snow and ice may have accumulated.
   (B)   General maintenance. The maintenance of a sidewalk within the City of
St. Matthews right-of-way shall be the responsibility of the City of St.
Matthews. Any sidewalk (or portion of any sidewalk) located on private property
is the sole responsibility of the private property owner. However, no owner,
occupant, or person having the care of a building or lot of land, bordering on
any sidewalk in the city’s right-of-way may cause damage to the sidewalk by
allowing any condition to exist (or by taking, or negligently failing to take
any action), that causes damage to the sidewalk. An owner, occupant, or person
having the care of a building or lot of land, bordering on any sidewalk in the
city’s right-of-way, shall timely notify the city of any defect or damage to
said sidewalk abutting the property.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 2-14-17) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.16 FRONT AND SIDE YARD RIGHT OF WAY.
   (A)   Part of the city’s right-of-way lies outside the traveled portion of
the roadway and extends into the area commonly used and maintained by property
owners as front or side yard. Property owners are allowed to use such areas for
driveway access, location of mail and paper boxes and landscaping, however the
maintenance of that area is the responsibility of the owner, occupant, or
person having the care of the building or lot of land. Maintenance
responsibilities of the property owner include general grounds maintenance,
such as grass mowing, tree care and debris removal.
   (B)   The public tree canopy is a valuable resource which the city desires
to regulate an preserve. No owner, occupant, or person having the care of a
building or lot of land, bordering on any city right-of-way shall plant,
intentionally damage, or remove any tree that is located in the city right-of-
way, without the prior permission of the city. Any person, or property owner
acting without prior approval shall be subject to the cost associated with any
remedial measures necessary to correct an improper action, including replanting
of a like tree.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 2-14-17) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Parking for single family residential uses and duplexes is permitted
in the required front or street side yard only on a hard surface driveway that
does not exceed 20 feet in width and that leads to a garage, carport, house or
rear yard. Parking is permitted on approved pull-offs, but only if the pull-off
was approved by the city and was constructed in accordance with the regulations
and specifications of the city, including the City of St. Matthews Public Works
and Assets Policy.
   (B)   The surface of the roadway, along with the roadway curb (if any) and
any street signage is the maintenance responsibility of the City of St.
Matthews. Any driveway, or driveway apron, is the sole responsibility of the
property owner.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 2-14-17) Penalty, see §
92.99
STREET ADDRESSES
§ 92.20 DISPLAY OF STREET ADDRESS REQUIRED.
   All residential, commercial, and industrial property located in the city
shall conspicuously display the appropriate street address as assigned by the
County Department of Public Works in accordance with the standards in §
92.21.
(Ord. 12, 1985, passed 7-23-85) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21 LOCATION, VISIBILITY, AND SIZE OF ADDRESS.
   (A)   Single-family residences.
      (1)   The address shall be placed at the front of the residence or in a
manner so as to be visible from the nearest fronting road;
      (2)   The address shall be clearly visible from the nearest fronting road
and kept free and clear of any obstructions hindering reasonable visibility
from the fronting road; and
      (3)   The numbers shall be of a size at least three inches by two inches
or larger if necessary to be visible from the nearest fronting road, and in a
color distinguishable from its background, with the exception that existing
posted numerals shall be acceptable hereunder if so visible as to adequately
identify each single-family dwelling.
   (B)   Apartment buildings.
      (1)   The address shall be placed in a manner to insure prompt
identification of apartment buildings from the nearest fronting road or parking
area, depending upon the location and placement of each particular apartment
building;
      (2)   The address shall be clearly visible and kept free and clear of any
obstructions hindering reasonable visibility from the nearest fronting road or
parking area; and
      (3)   The numbers shall be in standard Arabic form of a size at least
three inches by two inches, or larger if necessary to be visible from the
nearest fronting road or parking area, and in a color distinguishable from its
background, with the exception that existing posted numerals shall be
acceptable hereunder if so visible as to adequately identify each apartment
building.
      (4)   In the event that apartment buildings located in a complex or
elsewhere are not clearly visible from the nearest public thoroughfare, the
owner of any apartment building shall use a system of identification that is
reasonably calculated to be readily identifiable by public service and
emergency personnel. The City Engineer or the City Sign Officer shall have the
authority to approve any identification system proposed in writing by apartment
building owners. The written approval obtained from the City Engineer or from
the Sign Officer shall be prima facie evidence of compliance with this
subchapter.
   (C)   Commercial and industrial structures.
      (1)   The address shall be placed on all commercial and industrial
structures so as to insure visibility from the nearest fronting road, and if
the commercial or industrial structure is not visible from the nearest fronting
road, the street address shall be posted in a conspicuous manner so as to be
visible from the nearest fronting road;
      (2)   The address shall be clearly visible and kept free and clear of any
obstructions hindering reasonable visibility from the nearest fronting;
      (3)   The numbers shall be in standard Arabic form of a size at least
five inches by three inches, or larger if necessary to be visible from the
nearest fronting road, and in a color distinguishable from its background, with
the exception that existing posted numerals shall be acceptable hereunder if so
visible as to adequately identify each commercial or industrial structure; and
      (4)   In the event that commercial or industrial structures located in a
complex or elsewhere are not clearly visible from the nearest public
thoroughfare, the owner of any such apartment building shall use a system of
identification that is reasonably calculated to be readily identifiable by
public service and emergency personnel. The City Engineer or the City Sign
Officer shall have the authority to approve any identification system proposed
in writing by owners of commercial or industrial structures. The written
approval obtained from the City Engineer or from the Sign Officer shall be
prima facie evidence of compliance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 12, 1985, passed 7-23-85) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.22 ENFORCING AUTHORITY; IDENTIFICATION OF ADDRESS BY EMERGENCY OR OTHER
PUBLIC SERVICE PERSONNEL.
   The City Police Department is designated as enforcement personnel for this
subchapter, and they are vested with the authority to issue citations for
violations of this subchapter, which shall be enforced with the intent to
ensure that each residential, commercial, and industrial structure in the city
is clearly identified by its assigned street address in order to enable
emergency and other public service personnel to promptly identify same at all
times during the night and day.
(Ord. 12, 1985, passed 7-23-85)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Upon the failure of any entity to properly repair and restore any cut,
excavation, or alternation, the city may authorize the repair or restoration of
the area in a proper manner and charge said cost to the entity which made the
repair, cut, excavation, or alternation (and/or the entity upon whose behalf
the work was done). In the event the city must make the repair or restoration,
the city may use the encroachment permit bond. In addition, if the cost of
restoration exceeds the bond, the city shall have a lien against any property
of said entities (if any) that the work directly benefits, or on whose behalf
it was undertaken. The lien shall be on record in the Jefferson County Clerk’s
office and shall bear interest at 12% per annum thereafter until paid.
   (B)   In addition to the remedies set out above, the city shall cite the
person, utility, company or entity for each violation and any person, utility,
company or entity violating this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and
upon conviction shall pay a fine of not more than $500. Each street, sidewalk,
right-of-way, easement, or drain which is cut, excavated, burrowed, tunneled,
bored, disturbed, damaged or altered, shall be deemed a separate offence.
Further, if deemed necessary by the city to protect the public ways and public
utilities of the city, any entity repeatedly violating this chapter may denied
permission to make any future cuts or excavations.
   (C)   Pursuant to the city’s prosecutorial discretion, the city may enforce
violations of the provisions of this chapter as criminal, civil, or abatement
action.
      (1)   Misdemeanor. Any person who is violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 2-14-17)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE SAFETY
Section
Adoption of Kentucky Standards of Safety
   
93.01   Kentucky Standards of Safety adopted
   
93.02   Office of safety inspector
Burning Buildings
   
93.10   Burning buildings as a training exercise
   
93.11   Permit
   
93.12   Investigation of permit application
   
93.13   Permit must be possessed at time of exercise
Central Fire Siren
   
93.20   Permit for fire siren
   
93.21   Issuance of siren permit
   
93.22   Confiscation and exceptions
Fireworks
   
93.35   Definitions
   
93.36   Sale of display fireworks
   
93.37   Use of display fireworks
   
93.38   Sale of consumer fireworks
   
93.39   Use of consumer fireworks
   
93.40   Inspection and enforcement
 
   
93.99   Penalty
ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY STANDARDS OF SAFETY
§ 93.01 KENTUCKY STANDARDS OF SAFETY ADOPTED.
   The Kentucky Standards of Safety, 1963 Edition, are adopted and made a part
hereof the same as if fully copied herein, and they shall hereafter be the
standards of safety of the city.
(Ord. 11, passed 5-26-64)
Penalty, see § 93.99 (A)
§ 93.02 OFFICE OF SAFETY INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The office of safety inspector of the city is created. It shall be the
duty of the safety inspector to enforce the provisions of these standards of
safety. He shall have authority to enter all buildings and premises, at
reasonable times, within the city for the purpose of inspection to determine
whether the standards of safety are met.
   (B)   A copy of the standards of safety shall be kept on file in the office
of the city clerk at all times.
(Ord. 11, passed 5-26-64)
BURNING BUILDINGS
§ 93.10 BURNING BUILDINGS AS A TRAINING EXERCISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, association, or corporation to burn, or
permit the burning, in whole or in part, of any building or structure within
the city as a practice or training exercise by or for firemen without a permit
having been obtained.
(Ord. 6, passed 3-24-70)
Penalty, see § 93.99 (B)
§ 93.11 PERMIT.
   Any person, association, or corporation desiring to burn, in whole or in
part, any building or structure within the city as a practice or training
exercise for firemen shall apply for and obtain a permit from the city clerk
and pay a fee of $1. The application shall describe and locate the building or
structure proposed to be burned, and shall be signed by the applicant. The
application must be signed by the owner of the building or structure described,
or his written consent to the burning of the building or structure must be
attached to the application.
(Ord. 6, passed 3-24-70)
Penalty, see § 93.99 (B)
§ 93.12 INVESTIGATION OF PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Upon receiving an application, the city council shall appoint 2 of its
members, who, together with the chief of the volunteer fire department, or his
assistant, and the chief of police, or his assistant, shall constitute a
committee to investigate the building or structure described in the
application. If a written report by the committee, signed by at least 3 of its
members, is filed with the city clerk, stating that in their opinion the
building or structure may be burned without endangering the safety of persons
or property, then the city clerk, upon the payment of the permit fee, shall
issue to the applicant a permit to burn the building or structure described in
the application.
(Ord. 6, passed 3-24-70)
Penalty, see § 93.99 (B)
§ 93.13 PERMIT MUST BE POSSESSED AT TIME OF EXERCISE.
   The building or structure described in the permit shall not be burned, in
whole or in part, unless the person in charge of the burning has then and there
in his possession the permit duly issued by the city clerk. The person in
charge of the burning shall exhibit the permit to any policeman of the city
upon demand.
(Ord. 6, passed 3-24-70)
Penalty, see § 93.99 (B)
CENTRAL FIRE SIREN
§ 93.20 PERMIT FOR FIRE SIREN.
   A central or stationary fire siren, to be used in giving a fire alarm, shall
not be installed, located, or maintained within the corporate limits of the
city unless a permit has been first obtained.
(Ord. 14, passed 4-28-70)
Penalty, see § 93.99 (C)
§ 93.21 ISSUANCE OF SIREN PERMIT.
   Any person, association, or corporation desiring to install, locate, or
maintain a fire siren within the city shall make written application therefor
to the city clerk stating where the siren is to be located or maintained. Upon
receipt of the application the city clerk shall submit the application to the
city council. Upon approval of the application by the city council, the city
clerk, shall issue a permit to the applicant without cost.
(Ord. 14, passed 4-28-70)
Penalty, see § 93.99 (C)
§ 93.22 CONFISCATION AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   A siren installed or maintained in violation of this chapter may be
removed and confiscated by the chief of police, or at his direction.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to a siren located on a
motor vehicle used for the transportation of personnel or fire fighting
equipment.
(Ord. 14, passed 4-28-70)
Penalty, see § 93.99 (C)
FIREWORKS
§ 93.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “CONSUMER FIREWORKS.” Fireworks that are suitable for use by the public
which are designed primarily to produce visible and audible effects by
combustion, deflagration, detonation or ignition, and contain 50 milligrams
(“mg.”), or less of explosive composition, and if an aerial device, contains
130 mg. or less of explosive composition which comply with the construction,
chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the United States Consumer
Product Safety Commission. Such fireworks include, but are not limited to the
following:
      (1)   Ground and Hand-Held Sparkling Devices:
         (a)   Dipped Stick-Sparkler or Wire Sparkler. Consists of a metal wire
or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition, which upon
ignition, produces a shower of sparks. Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of
pyrotechnic composition per item. Those devices containing any perchlorate or
chlorate salts may not exceed 5 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire
sparklers which contain no magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams of
composition per item are not included in this category, in accordance with
Department of Transportation regulations;
         (b)   Cylindrical Fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
75 grams of pyrotechnic composition, where upon ignition, a shower of and
sometimes a whistling or smoking effect, is produced. This device may be
provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or
plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard
handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than 1 tube is
mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200
grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a
distance of at least 1/2 inch;
         (c)   Cone Fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to 50
grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain. When more than 1 cone is mounted on a common base, the
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least 1/
2 inch;
         (d)   Illuminating Torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is produced. May be
spike, base or hand-held. When more than 1 tube is mounted on a common base,
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by distance or at least 1/
2 inch;
         (e)   Wheel. A pyrotechnic device attached to a post or tree by means
of a nail or string. A wheel may have 1 or more drivers, each of which may
contain not more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel may contain
more than 200 grams, total pyrotechnic composition upon ignition, the wheel
revolves, producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling
effect;
         (f)   Ground Spinner. Small device containing not more than 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is produced by
the rapidly spinning device;
         (g)   Flitter Sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is
ignited to make the device function; and
         (h)   Toy Smoke Device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces
white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (2)   Aerial Devices:
         (a)   Sky Rockets and Bottle Rockets. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wood stick
for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst of
color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight;
         (b)   Missile-Type Rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability;
         (c)   Helicopter/Aerial Spinner. A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached, which, upon
ignition, lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible
effect is produced at the height of flight;
         (d)   Roman Candles. Heavy paper or cardboard containing up to 20
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to 10 "stars" (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several second intervals;
         (e)   Mine Shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect). Upon
ignition, "stars," components producing reports containing up to 130 mg. of
explosive composition per report, or other devices are propelled into the air.
The term "mine" refers to a device with no internal components containing a
bursting charge, and term "shell" refers to a device that propels a component
that subsequently bursts open in the air. A mine or shell device may contain
more than 1 tube provided the tubes fire in sequence upon ignition of 1
external fuse. The term "cake" refers to a dense-packed collection of mine or
shell tubes. Total chemical composition including lift charges of any multiple
tube devices may not exceed 200 grams. The maximum quantity of lift charge in
any 1 tube of a mine or shell device shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum
quantity of break or bursting charge in any component shall not exceed 25% of
the total weight of chemical composition in the component. The tube remains on
the ground; and
         (f)   Aerial Shell Kit/Reloadable Tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE), or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed 1-3/4 inches. In addition, the maximum quantity of lift charge in any
shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting charge
in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition
in the shell. The total chemical composition of all the shells in a kit,
including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams. The user lowers a shell into
the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fuse extending out of the
top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then reloaded with another shell
for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be capable or firing twice the
number of shells in the kit without failure of the tube. Each package of
multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning label requirements of
the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible Ground Devices:
         (a)   Firecrackers/Salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 mg. of pyrotechnic composition. Those used in
aerial devices may contain not more than 130 mg. of explosive composition per
report Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced; and
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50 mg.
   “DISPLAY FIREWORKS.” Large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible
or audible effects by combustion, deflagration, detonation, or ignition. This
term includes, but is not limited to, firecrackers containing more than 2
grains (130 mg.) of explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than
40 grams of pyrotechnic composition, and other display pieces which exceed the
limits for classification as "Consumer Fireworks." Such definition meets the
Consumer Product Safety Commission definition for display fireworks in 16
C.F.R. Pts. 1500 and 1507 and are classified as Class B explosives by the
United States Department of Transportation.
   “FIREWORKS.” Any composition or device for the purpose of producing a
visible or an audible effect by combustion, deflagration, detonation, or
ignition.
   “SMOKE DEVICES.” Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition that,
upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
   “SNAKES/GLOW WORMS.” Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic compositions that
produces a large, snakelike ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as the
pellet burns. Such devices may NOT contain mercuric thiocyanate.
   “TRICK NOISEMAKERS.” Item that produces a small report intended to surprise
the user. These devices include:
      (1)   Party Popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more than
16 mg. of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A string protruding
from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper streamers and producing
a small report;
      (2)   Boobv Trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report;
      (3)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity of
explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes producing a small report;
      (4)   Trick Match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match a small report or a shower of sparks is produced;
      (5)   Cigarette Load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a small
quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette containing one
of the pegs, a small report is produced; and
      (6)   Auto Burglar Alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 mg. may also be used to produce a small report.
A squib is used to ignite the device.
   “WIRE SPARKLER.” Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that produces a
shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may NOT contain magnesium and must
not exceed 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Devices containing
any chlorate or percholate salts may not exceed 5 grams of pyrotechnic
composition per item.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 8-9-11)
§ 93.36 SALE OF DISPLAY FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or other entity to
offer for sale, expose for sale, sell at retail, keep or possess with the
intent to sell any display fireworks within the city.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 8-9-11) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.37 USE OF DISPLAY FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or other entity to
use or detonate any display fireworks within the city except as follows:
   (A)   Pyrotechnic devices and distress signals for marine, aviation, and
highway use in emergency situations;
   (B)   Blank cartridges used in a show or theater or for use as a signal or
ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports;
   (C)   Pyrotechnic devices authorized for use under the supervision of a
military organization;
   (D)   Pyrotechnic devices for use in training by fire service, law
enforcement, or similar governmental agencies;
   (E)   Fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct supervision of
the United States Department of the Interior or any equivalent agency; and
   (F)   Supervised public displays of fireworks by municipalities or other
organizations conducted by a competent display operator to be approved by the
City Council and who shall have the qualifications and meet the requirements
set out in KRS Chapter 227 and further provided that organizations other than
the city shall be required to pay a permit fee of $250 which may be waived in
the sole discretion of the City Council and apply for the permit not less than
15 days prior to the event.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 8-9-11) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.38 SALE OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The sale of consumer fireworks shall be permitted with the following
exceptions. Sale in violation of the exceptions in the following divisions (B),
(C), (D), and (E) are prohibited.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, consumer fireworks may not be offered
for sale, exposed for sale, sold at retail, kept or possessed with intent to
sell, if said fireworks have as part of their devices any wings, fins, or other
mechanisms designed to cause the devices to fly or are designed to operate as
aerial devices, or if said consumer fireworks carry a cautionary label which
includes in their description any of the following terms: "explosive," "emits
flaming pellets," "flaming balls," "firecrackers," "report" or "rocket."
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to sell or
possess with intent to sell or display consumer fireworks.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or other
entity to employ any person under the age of 18 for the sale of fireworks
within the city.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or other
entity to give, offer for sale, or sell any consumer or display fireworks to
any person who is under the age of 18 years of age within the city.
   (F)   It shall not be a violation of this subchapter for any person, firm,
corporation, or other entity to transport within the city consumer or display
fireworks, so long as such products are being transported through the city to a
location where such products can be sold, stored, or used in compliance with
law. Commercial transportation of all fireworks is required to be in accordance
with local, state, and federal regulations regarding explosive materials.
   (G)   In addition to any business license that may be due, any person, firm,
co-partnership, or corporation desiring to sell fireworks within the city shall
obtain a permit to sell fireworks from the City Clerk at least 15 days prior to
offering fireworks for sale at the site for which the permit is intended. A
permit fee of $250 shall be paid to the city for each permit required. A copy
of the permit shall be posted on site. No permit shall be issued unless the
applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance deemed adequate by
the city in the sum of not less than $10,000. If any person, firm, co-
partnership, or corporation has more than 1 site, a permit shall be required
for each additional site complying with said provisions required above. Any
failure to comply with the provisions of this subchapter shall result in the
revocation of this permit and such permit will be held to be void or forfeited
by that business. Exempt from the aforesaid permitting requirements are those
business establishments that are open year round and for which the sale of
novelty and trick noisemakers are described in §
93.35 as “smoke devices,” “snakes/glow worms,” “trick noisemakers,” and “wire
sparklers”.
   (H)   The use of tents or temporary structures shall be prohibited for the
sale of any fireworks within the city.
   (I)   Fire Safety Requirements.
      (1)   Fire extinguishers will be required at each licensed site in
accordance with NFPA # 10 Standards as referenced by the current adopted
Kentucky Standards of Safety.
      (2)   No Smoking signs will be posted, and there will be no open flame
devices permitted within 100 feet of said temporary structure. No demonstration
of fireworks will be permitted near or around the display of fireworks for sale
at any licensed site.
      (3)   Electrical wiring at any licensed site will be required to meet
NFPA # 70 Standards as referenced by the current adopted Kentucky Standards of
Safety.
      (4)   All retail sales and storage of pyrotechnic material must follow
NFPA # 1123, 1124, 1125, 1126, and 1127 which is the current adopted National
Fire Protection Association Code Book by the State of Kentucky.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 8-9-11) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.39 USE OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful in the city for any person, firm, corporation, or
other entity to use or detonate fireworks on private property in such manner as
to create a circumstance of wanton endangerment or disorderly conduct.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful in the city for any person, firm, corporation, or
other entity to use or detonate any fireworks on city property, except for
products defined herein under §
93.35 as “smoke devices,” “snakes/glow worms,” “trick noisemakers,” and “wire
sparklers”.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 8-9-11) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.40 INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The city Police Department or the Metro Louisville Police Department
or his or her or their designated representative are hereby determined to be
the enforcement authority and are authorized and directed to enforce all
sections of this subchapter.
   (B)   The enforcement authority may enter any premises covered by this
subchapter in the performance of duties imposed herein.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 8-9-11)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates the provisions,
requirements, or specifications of the standards of safety, shall be fined not
less than $10 nor more than $500, or confined in jail for not more than 60
days, or both. Each day the violation continues shall, in the discretion of the
courts, be considered as a separate offense.
(Ord. 11, passed 5-26-64)
   (B)   Any person who permits a building or structure owned by him to be
burned, in whole or in part, without a permit as provided to §§
93.10 through
93.13, inclusive, and any person who participates in the burning, in whole or
in part, without a permit having been issued, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
and upon conviction shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $200.
(Ord. 6, passed 3-24-70)
   (C)   A violation of §§
93.20 through
93.22, inclusive, shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $10 or more
than $100. Each day that the siren remains located in violation of this chapter
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 14, passed 4-28-70)
   (D)   (1)   Violations of §§
93.35 through
93.40 may be prosecuted in proceedings by the city, or by the Jefferson
District Court.
      (2)   Any person, firm, corporation, or other entity found to be in
violation of §§
93.35 through
93.40 by the City Council may be assessed a civil penalty payable to the city
in an amount not less than $50 nor more than $500.
      (3)   Any person, firm, corporation, or other entity found to be in
violation of §§
93.35 through
93.40 by the Jefferson District Court shall receive a fine not to exceed $500.
      (4)   Enforcement authorities or police officers shall immediately
confiscate any fireworks believed to be in violation of §§
93.35 through
93.40. Following an appropriate hearing, if no violation is found to have
occurred, said confiscated fireworks shall be returned by the enforcement
authorities or police officers to the person, firm, corporation, or other
entity from who they were obtained. Following an appropriate hearing, if a
violation is found to have occurred, the confiscated fireworks shall be
destroyed by the appropriate enforcement authority.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 8-9-11)
CHAPTER 94: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE; NUISANCES
Section
   
94.01 Public purpose; public nuisances defined
   
94.02 Property maintenance standards
   
94.03 Enforcement and penalties
§ 94.01 PUBLIC PURPOSE; PUBLIC NUISANCES DEFINED.
   (A)   The City Council does hereby find that it is necessary to provide for
the abatement of conditions which are offensive, detrimental to property values
and community appearance, an obstruction to or interference with the
comfortable enjoyment of adjacent property or premises, or hazardous or
injurious to the health, safety or welfare of the general public in such ways
to constitute a public nuisance; and, to provide reasonable standards to
safeguard life, health and public welfare in keeping with the character of the
city, by and through the general police power of the city granted in KRS
82.082, as well as the authority granted in KRS 65.8840 to prohibit and abate
nuisances, for each of the following purposes:
      (1)   To safeguard the health, safety and welfare of the people by
maintaining property or premises in good and appropriate condition; and
      (2)   To enhance the economic value of the community, and each area in
it, through the regulation of the maintenance of property or premises.
   (B)   Accordingly, the City Council finds and declares that the purpose of
this chapter is to:
      (1)   Reduce the threat to health, safety, welfare, appearance and
economic value due to the decline in property condition(s) by lawfully
delineating the circumstances under which such condition(s) may be considered
illegal and/or require abatement; and further finds that
      (2)   Allowing abatement of such condition(s) if abatement is in the best
interest of the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the city because
maximum use and enjoyment of property or premises in proximity to one another
depends upon maintenance of those properties or premises at or above the
minimum standard.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and
phrases are defined as follows.
      "ABANDONED." In addition to those definitions provided by state codes,
local ordinances and case law, the term abandoned means and refers to any item
which has ceased to be used for its designed and intended purpose. The
following factors, among others, may be considered by the Enforcement Officer
in determining whether an item has been abandoned:
         (a)   Present operability and functional utility for its original
purpose, or reuse for another legal purpose;
         (b)   The date of last use;
         (c)   The extent of any disrepair or damage;
         (d)   The last time an effort was made to repair or rehabilitate the
item;
         (e)   The status of registration or licensing of the item;
         (f)   The age and degree of obsolescence;
         (g)   The cost of rehabilitation or repair of the item versus its
market value; and
         (h)   The nature of the area and location of the item. Items such as
furniture, toys, appliances, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, washing machines,
dryers, dishwashers, water heaters, television sets and other items not
intended for use or storage in an outdoor environment may be considered
abandoned if left outside the home in view for over 72 hours.
      "ABATE." To repair, replace, remove, destroy or otherwise remedy the
condition in question by such means and in such a manner and to such an extent
as the Enforcement Officer in his/her judgment shall determine is necessary in
the interest of the general health, safety and welfare of the community.
      "CITY." The City of St. Matthews and its authorized Enforcement Officers.
      "DISMANTLED." Objects or machinery from which essential equipment, parts
or contents have been removed or stripped and the outward appearance verifies
the removal.
      "ENFORCEMENT OFFICER." Those persons appointed as Enforcement Officers,
or officers of the City of St. Matthews Police Department.
      "GARBAGE." Discarded items, abandoned items, accumulation of yard debris,
animal and vegetable waste (not including properly enclosed and maintained
compost), resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of
food and similar animal and vegetable refuse whether liquid or solid, or any
accumulation of any sour, decaying or putrescent substance, either gas, liquid,
or solid.
      "GOOD REPAIR." The external elements of structures which are being
maintained in a state of repair that allows those elements to provide the
functional use for which they were intended.
      "IN VIEW." Any nuisance that can be seen from any public right-of-way.
      "INOPERATIVE." Incapable of functioning or producing activity for
mechanical, or other reasons, include (where appropriate), lack of current
registration and license tag.
      "LIENHOLDER." Any person, as defined in this chapter, who has a recorded
interest in real property, including mortgagee, beneficiary under a deed of
trust, or holder of other recorded liens or claims of interest in real
property.
      "NUISANCE." Any public nuisance known at common law or in equity
jurisprudence, or any condition defined as a nuisance under this chapter.
      "OWNER." The registered owner of a vehicle, the person(s) to whom
property tax is assessed on real or personal property, as shown on the last tax
assessment roll of the county and in addition renter(s), lessee(s) and other
occupants residing permanently or temporarily on property.
      "PERSON." An individual, partnership, joint venture, corporation
association, social club, fraternal organization, trust, estate, receiver or
any other entity.
      "PREMISES." Any building, lot, parcel, real estate, or land or portion of
land whether improved or unimproved, occupied or unoccupied, including adjacent
streets, sidewalks, parkways and parking strips.
      "PROPERTY." Any real property including but not limited to land, lot, or
parcel of land, and shall include any alley, sidewalk, parkway or unimproved
public easement, or right-of-way abutting such real property, lot or parcel of
land.
      "SCRAP METAL." Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper,
aluminum or any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other
material, whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its
original form and can no longer be used for its intended purpose, or other
compliant new purpose.
      "STAGNANT/POLLUTED WATER." Water standing for longer than four days,
without proper drainage or disbursement.
      "STRUCTURE." Anything constructed, built or planted upon, any edifice or
building of any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of
parts joined together in some definite, manner, which structure requires
location on the ground or is attached to something having a location on the
ground, including fences, arbors trellises, gates, garages, carports, swimming
and wading pools, patios, outdoor areas, paved areas, walks, tennis courts and
similar recreation areas.
      "UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE." Any item, object, etc., or any device used to
carry out a specific function which has served its usefulness and is more or
less in its original form and can no longer, be used for its originally
intended purpose or having defective or missing parts or in such a condition
generally as to be unfit for further use or conveyance.
      "WASTE ITEMS." Boxes, bags, plastic, paper, clothing, discarded or unused
items, trash, filth, waste material (solid or liquid), litter, rubbish, debris,
building materials of any kind (not being utilized for a current lawful ongoing
construction project on property) and containers or refuse of any kind (not
being utilized for a current lawful ongoing construction project on property)
left in view for over 72 hours.
      "WEEDS." Unhealthful plant growth such as but not limited to jimson,
burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur, kudzu, bamboo, poison ivy or poison oak,
or any other growth of a noxious or poisonous kind or any plant growth not
intended for aesthetic appeal or other legitimate purpose such as crops, trees,
bushes, flowers, ornamental plants. Whether a certain plant or planting is
"ornamental" shall be solely determined by any Enforcement Officer designated
by the City Council to enforce city ordinances, after consideration as to
whether the plants or plantings serve some reasonably discernable and clearly
recognizable beautification purpose. Evidence of ornamental characteristics
include, but are not limited to: (1) Defined planting boundaries; (2) Evidence
that the resident actually cultivates the plants and plantings regularly to
provide for a reasonable landscape scheme; (3) Has employed landscape
professionals in the planning of the plants or plantings; (4) Can articulate a
discernable landscaping scheme for the plants or plantings; and (5) Has spent
time or money on the creation and upkeep of the plants or plantings.
      "WRECKED." That which has outward manifestation or appearance of damage
to parts and contents which are essential to operation.
(Ord. 19-06, passed 11-12-19)
§ 94.02 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be a public nuisance for any owner (or person
in control), of any real or personal property located in the city, to keep,
maintain, or utilize such real or personal property in such a manner that any
of the following nuisance conditions are found to exist:
      (1)   Abandoned, dismantled, wrecked, inoperable, unlicensed, or
discarded objects, equipment or appliances left outside for more than 72 hours,
which are in plain view from a public street, such as, but not limited to
vehicles, boats, water heaters, refrigerators, other appliances and household
fixtures, furniture not designed for outdoor use, machinery equipment, or
containers.
      (2)   Junk, scrap metal, motor vehicles. The storage of motor vehicles in
an inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for further use, not having a
current registration and license tag, automobile parts, scrap metal or junk,
unless completely enclosed within a garage.
      (3)   Discarded food, garbage, rubbish, refuse, which has not been
properly and timely placed in containers for waste collection. Garbage and
recycling containers must be securely lidded. The city does not allow "open
composting" and all compost bins must have a secure lid.
      (4)   Lumber (excluding lumber for a construction project on the property
with a valid permit), salvage materials, including but not limited to auto
parts, scrap metals, tires, other materials stored on premises in excess of 72
hours and visible from a public street, walkway, alley or other public
property.
      (5)   Incomplete projects. Any renovation or construction to structures
or grounds must be completed through consistent, sustained effort and no such
building or grounds under construction or renovation may be allowed to be
uncompleted for an unreasonable length of time, given due consideration to the
type of project. A period of 120 days without consistent, sustained effort to
complete the project shall be an unreasonable length of time, without
sufficient, specific, written explanation for said delay.
      (6)   Receptacles for discarded materials and recyclables which are left
in view from the public roadway following the day of the regularly scheduled
refuse pick-up for the property; no garbage, yard waste or recycling items
shall be placed out for collection in view of a public street more than 24
hours prior to the collection day. The containers for such items must be
removed from view of any public street within 24 hours after the day of
collection.
      (7)   With respect to receptacles such as dumpsters and portable storage
containers being used for discarded materials or storage in connection with a
current lawful ongoing construction project on a particular property within the
city; no such receptacles may be placed or left on a city, Louisville Metro, or
State of Kentucky right-of-way without first securing a permit from the city.
      (8)   Swimming pool, pond, spa, other body of water, or excavation that
is abandoned, unattended, or empty, that is not fully contained inside a fenced
area such that the area is inaccessible to the public, or any attractive
nuisance not properly secured from public access, that endangers life, health,
or public safety.
      (9)   Any property or dwelling on a property which detrimentally impacts
the surrounding neighborhood as a result of either severe dilapidation,
deterioration or decay, or being uninhabited for a period greater than eight
weeks and not being secured or being improperly secured.
      (10)   Permits any structure/residence to become unfit and/or unsafe for
human habitation or occupancy, or to permit conditions to exist in the
structure which are dangerous or injurious to the health or safety of the
occupants or the structure, the occupants of neighboring structures, or other
residences of the city. All residences within the city shall have a safe and
operable connection to water, electric/gas, and sewer services. Residents who
are in the process of construction, have obtained the necessary permits and are
not in violation of division (A)(5) of this section concerning incomplete
projects are exempt from this section during the construction.
      (11)   Permits any weeds, or grass growth, other than crops, trees or
ornamental plants or shrubs, to grow to a height exceeding eight inches. It
shall be the duty of any owner, operator, agent, or occupant, occupying or
controlling real property within the City of St. Matthews to maintain all grass
to a maximum height of eight inches and to remove all refuse, weeds, trash,
waste and litter from the sidewalks, curbing, to the edge of the pavement of
such streets as are adjacent to such property.
      (12)   Permits any weeds, non-ornamental plants, wild plant or planting,
other than the "excluded plantings" (as defined below), over eight inches in
height to remain on any premises. For purposes of this section, "excluded
plantings" shall mean those non-ornamental wild plants that may be contained on
a property bordering a U.S. highway or interstate and that have the distinct
purpose(s) of creating or serving as a noise barrier or visible traffic
buffering mechanism with respect to such U.S. highway or interstate.
      (13)   Interference with and/or obstruction of a drainage ditch, device
or system to inhibit, alter, or prevent proper storm water drainage patterns;
or interference or hindrance of any right-of-way by virtue of any object, or
vegetation, that is in violation of chapter 92, or that interferes or hinders
the use of a sidewalk, or obstructs the sight lines of any roadway.
      (14)   Placement of portable storage and/or moving containers (i.e. PODS
etc.), on or around any property without a permit from the city.
      (15)   Permits the accumulation of ashes, leaves, wood, lumber, limbs,
twigs and storm debris.
      (16)   Any tree, stack, or other object standing in such a condition that
is likely to, if the conditions continue, endanger life, limb or property, or
cause hurt, damage or injury to persons or property by falling thereof or of
parts thereof.
      (17)   Permits the dropping, deposit, or acquiescence in the dropping,
depositing, scattering of waste material in any manner, in or on any public or
private property any material of any kind, not including normal yard
maintenance material.
      (18)   Permits any condition to exist that is injurious to the public
health. Such as but not limited to:
         (a)   Unlawful storage of explosives;
         (b)   Having an uncovered or insecurely covered cellar, well, pit or
any excavation situated upon any premises in any open lot or plane that any
reasonable or prudent person should realize should be injurious to human
health;
         (c)   The failure to keep an animal's pen, yard, lot or other
enclosure in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive odors;
         (d)   Permits the presence of polluted water, or the accumulation of
any substance that attracts vermin, rodents, insects, or animals or is
otherwise injurious to the public health; and
         (e)   Permits the unlawful burning of any refuse, garbage, or waste or
material of any kind.
      (19)   Permits any condition to exist that causes a building or grounds
not to be in good repair. Such as but not limited to:
         (a)   Windows, exterior doors, porches, roofs, eaves, foundations,
exterior walls, and exterior stairs shall be reasonably watertight,
weathertight, bird, animal, rodent-proof and shall be kept in sound condition
and good repair;
         (b)   All exterior wood surfaces, other than decay resistant woods,
shall be protected from the elements and decay by paint, or by other protective
covering or treatment. Peeling paint is a violation of this section; and
         (c)   All gutters, shutters, down spouts and any other parts of the
exterior of the home shall be maintained in their original condition and be fit
for their intended purpose.
      (20)   Permits the property and premises to be used in a manner that is
in violation of any other chapter of the City of St. Matthews Code of
Ordinances, the Development Code, the applicable Building Code and Kentucky
Revised Statutes.
(Ord. 19-06, passed 11-12-19)
§ 94.03 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Enforcement of this chapter may be accomplished by the Enforcement
Officer, or by officers of the City of St. Matthews Police Department, or other
person or employee as may be designated by the City Council to enforce city
ordinances in any manner, authorized by this chapter or by any other law.
Pursuant to the city's prosecutorial discretion, the city may enforce
violations of the provisions of this chapter as criminal, civil, or an
abatement action.
   (B)   Whenever any of the nuisance conditions set in this chapter are found
to exist, the Enforcement Officer for the city shall give ten days written
notice to the owner of the property and to the occupant, lessee, or tenant of
the property, as the case may be (the "occupant"), if different from the owner,
to remedy such condition. However, if the condition is of a nature that the
same cannot reasonably be expected to be completely remedied within a ten-day
period, the notice shall direct the recipient to proceed with reasonable
diligence to remedy such condition as soon as possible. The notice referenced
above shall be served by mail or by personal service to the last known address
of the owner of the property, as it appears on the current tax assessment roll
and to any occupant at the address of the property. The failure of any or all
the addressees to receive the notice shall not invalidate any of the
proceedings. Further, the failure of any owner or occupant to see, read, or
understand the notice shall not invalidate any of the proceedings.
   (C)   Any person who is in violation of the provisions of this chapter shall
be fined in accordance with the following schedule. The penalties herein do not
include enforcement, remedy, cleanup or abatement costs, which are cumulative
and not exclusive, and shall be in addition to all other remedies available to
the city under state law and local ordinances. All fines collected in
connection herewith shall be deposited into the city's general fund. Each day
during which any such offense is committed, continued or allowed shall be a
separate offense under the following schedule:
      (1)   For a first offense, a fine not exceeding $50, for each day of
violation, up to a maximum fine of $1,000.
      (2)   For a second similar offense within the same calendar year, a fine
not exceeding $75, for each day of violation, up to a maximum fine of $2,000.
      (3)   For a third similar offense within the same calendar year, a fine
not exceeding $100, for each day of violation, up to a maximum fine of $3,000.
   (D)   The city reserves the right to treat the violation of this chapter as
a criminal misdemeanor, which shall subject the violator to imprisonment for a
period not exceeding six months; or, by both fine (as set out in the fine
schedule in this chapter), and imprisonment.
   (E)   In order to enforce the provisions of this chapter, when the
Enforcement Officer, or other person or employee as may be designated by the
City Council to enforce city ordinances, finds and determines that the severity
of the violation warrants immediate action, he/she may clean up or abate
violation thereof in accordance with and under the authority of KRS 65.8840.
The city shall have a lien against the applicable property for the reasonable
value of labor and materials used in the remedy, cleanup or abatement of the
applicable condition. Further, if the city has created a Code Enforcement
Board, the city shall also have a lien to secure payment of any fines as set
out in KRS Chapter 65. An affidavit of the Enforcement Officer shall constitute
prima facie evidence of the amount cf the lien and the regularity of the
proceedings pursuant to this chapter and KRS 65.8840, and shall be recorded in
the office of the Jefferson County Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all
persons from the time of its recording and shall bear interest thereafter until
paid at the rate of 1.5% per month, compounded monthly, and may be enforced by
judicial proceedings. The cost of any such lien may also be recovered by the
city in a civil action. Such emergency cleanup or abatement will not relieve
the person of further action which may be taken by the City Council or its duly
authorized agents and representatives, including but not limited to, liability
for any violations of this chapter, or any other applicable provisions of state
law and local ordinances.
   (F)   The city may petition the Jefferson District and/or Circuit Court to
impose, assess and recover penalties imposed herein, including, but not limited
to the forced sale of any real property encumbered by a lien imposed under the
authority of this chapter. In addition, the city shall be entitled to recover
all costs related to enforcement, remedy, cleanup and/or abatement. In any
civil action commenced by the city under this chapter, the city shall be
entitled to recover from the defendant of such action, reasonable attorney's
fees and costs of suit.
(Ord. 19-06, passed 11-12-19)
CHAPTER 95: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
95.01   Parks closing hours
§ 95.01 PARKS CLOSING HOURS.
   (A)   No person shall be in any park during the hours the park is closed. No
person shall park, nor shall any owner of a vehicle allow a vehicle they own to
be parked, in any city park during the hours when the park is closed. Alcohol
is not allowed to be possessed by any person in any city park, with the
exception of city-approved events at which serving of alcohol has been
specifically approved and permitted by the city.
   (B)   The following parks are closed from sundown to sunrise, except for
city approved and scheduled events:
      (1)   Brown Park.
      (2)   Warwick Villa Park.
      (3)   Draut Park.
      (4)   Community Park.
      (5)   Holzheimer Park.
   (C)   Criminal or civil penalty. Pursuant to the city’s prosecutorial
discretion, the city may enforce, through its police or ordinance enforcement
officers, violations of the provisions of this chapter as criminal, civil or
abatement actions.
      (1)   Misdemeanor. Any person who is violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of no less
than $100 and no more than $500. Each day during which any such offense is
committed, continued, or allowed shall be a separate offense.
      (2)   Civil fine. Fine in an amount no less than $100 per day and no more
than $500 per day. Each day of non-compliance shall constitute the imposition
of per day fine.
      (3)   Abatement. Any vehicle abandoned or illegally parked anywhere on
any city park property may be removed at the direction of the city to a tow lot
designated by the city, in accordance with this chapter. The vehicle may be
reclaimed by the owner at the owner’s expense including all towing and storage
charges and payment of all fines imposed by the city.
(Ord. 16-1986, passed 10-28-86; Am. Ord. 22-01, passed 3-22-22; Am. Ord. 23-04,
passed 8-8-23)
CHAPTER 96: PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINERS
Section
   
96.01   Purpose
   
96.02   Application of chapter
   
96.03   Definitions
   
96.04   Permit and conditions
   
96.05   Exceptions
   
96.06   Portable storage containers in non-residential areas
   
96.07   Fees
   
96.08   Advertising
   
96.09   Enforcement
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and limit the time and place of
the location of portable storage containers, by whatever name known, trailers
used for storage, or temporary storage structures.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 7-22-08)
§ 96.02 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall apply to all real estate located within the bounds of the
city, with the exception of lots zoned and used for industrial purposes.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 7-22-08)
§ 96.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINER." Any type of temporary storage structure,
including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   A transportable enclosed container which is delivered by truck or
rail to a site and is off-loaded;
      (2)   A shipping container, isotainer, or intermodal cargo transport
container by whatever name known;
      (3)   Portable On Demand Storage by whatever name known;
      (4)   A vehicle or trailer whose primary purpose on the property is to
store personal property;
      (5)   A temporary building or structure, not otherwise covered by the
restrictions of the Land Development Code;
      (6)   Dumpsters (defined as movable containers that are used to store
discarded items or debris pending removal from the property) moved and emptied
no less frequently than monthly, are not covered by this chapter;
      (7)   The fact that a portable storage container is without wheels is
immaterial so long as the container is designed for or is capable of being
moved or relocated.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 7-22-08)
§ 96.04 PERMIT AND CONDITIONS.
   No portable storage container as defined in § 96.03 shall be allowed to be
located on or remain on any non-industrially zoned real estate in the city
without first securing from the city a permit.
   (A)   No more than one portable storage container shall be allowed on a
residential lot at any one time.
   (B)   A permit shall be issued for a maximum of 14 days from the earlier of
the date of issuance or the date on which the portable storage container was
located upon the property.
   (C)   No more than two permits shall be issued for the location of a
portable storage container on the same lot during the same calendar year where
the lot is under the same ownership.
   (D)   Periods of three days or less shall not be counted where a portable
storage container is returned to the property for the purpose of unloading.
   (E)   The City Clerk or his or her designee shall provide application/permit
forms for the purpose of securing a permit.
   (F)   There shall be subtracted from the 14 days otherwise allowable two
days for each one day that the portable storage container is located on the
property without a valid permit.
   (G)   A permit shall state the date of issuance and an expiration date.
   (H)   The container shall not be placed on public property.
   (I)   A copy of the permit shall be kept on-site at all times when the
container is on-site and shall be made available to inspection by any city
officer.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 7-22-08) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   In the case of emergencies, such as floods, wind storms, fires or other acts
of God, and man made disasters such as sewage back-ups, water leaks, electrical
overloads and other such events that damage property, code enforcement
officials shall not be allowed to enforce the provisions of this chapter and
shall make reasonable allowance for the extension of all time periods, limits
on numbers of containers, locations of containers on the property or other
appropriate waivers where necessary to assist in recovery, restoration,
mitigation of further damage and construction efforts. A permit is still
required.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 7-22-08)
§ 96.06 PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINERS IN NON-RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   It is recognized that non-residential or commercial areas have different
needs and requirements from residential areas. For that reason, this section
shall apply in lieu of or in addition to the foregoing provisions relating to
residential areas.
   (A)   In non-residential areas, an owner may locate a portable storage
container on his property for up to two months in any calendar year, subject to
the following exception: Where the owner is remodeling or constructing a
building on the subject premises, and has a valid building permit from the
city, he or she or it may locate a portable container on his or her property
for the period of time reasonably required for the active building
construction, plus two weeks.
   (B)   The number and location of portable storage containers to be located
on the property shall be subject to the approval by the permit officer,
preferring to use a site plan provided by applicant and approved by city staff.
   (C)   A copy of the permit shall be kept on-site at all times when the
container is on-site and shall be made available to inspection by any city
officer.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 7-22-08) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.07 FEES.
   At the time a permit is issued, the applicant shall pay a fee to the city of
$10, payable within 30 days of application. In the event that the permit is not
obtained within two days after the container is placed on the property without
a permit, the permit fee shall be $50.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 7-22-08)
§ 96.08 ADVERTISING.
   The portable storage container shall contain no commercial advertising other
than the name, address, and telephone number of the provider of the container.
Any graffiti on the container shall be removed within 48 hours.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 7-22-08) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter may be enforced by any Citation Officer of the city, or by the
Police Department.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 7-22-08)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, corporation, or other entity violating this chapter, or
any provision thereof, shall be subject to a civil fine of not less than $100
for each such violation, and each day on which a violation exists or occurs
shall be deemed a separate violation for which a separate fine may be assessed.
A separate fine shall apply to each day the portable storage container remains
on the property after the expiration of the permit.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 7-22-08)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.     LICENSE TAX
         
111.     ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
         
112.     MISCELLANEOUS
         
113.     COMMUNITY ANTENNA CABLE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM
         
114.     ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
         
115.     FEES FOR INSURANCE COMPANIES
         
116.     SOLICITATION
CHAPTER 110: LICENSE TAX
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   License required for businesses and occupations
   
110.02   Business or occupation required to pay amount of tax
   
110.03   Gross receipts tax
   
110.04   Expiration date of license, when fee will be pro rated
   
110.05   City clerk to issue license
   
110.06   License to be posted
   
110.07   Purpose; fees to be deposited in general fund
   
110.08   Exemptions
   
110.09   Late payment penalty
Occupational License Fee
   
110.20   Short title
   
110.21   Definitions
   
110.22   Applicability
   
110.23   Occupational license fees imposed; rate
   
110.24   Apportionment of occupational license fees
   
110.25   Specific receipts excluded from occupational license fee
   
110.26   Employer located outside city
   
110.27   Collector designated enforcement official; authorization to promulgate
rules
   
110.28   Occupational license fee reporting numbers; payment of fee;
withholding
   
110.29   Returns
   
110.30   Collection of license fees; records
   
110.31   Purpose; fees to be deposited in general fund
   
110.32   Information deemed confidential; penalty for disclosure
   
110.33   Collector’s duties
   
110.34   Procedure for applying for refund of overpayment
   
110.35   Failure to file return; failure to pay; underpayments
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR BUSINESSES AND OCCUPATIONS.
   Within the city limits it shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
organization, or corporation to engage in any enterprise, activity, trade,
occupation, profession or undertaking of any nature conducted for gain or
profit, without first procuring a license and paying the required license tax.
“BUSINESS” shall not include the usual activities of boards of trade, chambers
of commerce, trade associations, or unions, or other associations performing
services usually performed by trade associations, or unions, or other
associations performing services usually performed by trade associations or
unions. “BUSINESS” shall not include funds, foundations, corporations or
associations organized and operated for the exclusive and sole purpose of
religious, charitable, scientific, literary, educational, civic, or fraternal
purposes, where not part of the earnings, incomes or receipts of such unit,
group, or association, inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or
other person.
(Ord. 3, passed 3-19-56; Am. Ord. 18-10, passed 11-27-18)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.02 BUSINESS OR OCCUPATION REQUIRED TO PAY AMOUNT OF TAX.
   Each person, firm, organization, or corporation owning, operating,
conducting or engaging in any business, occupation, trade, or profession, as
defined in §
110.01, whether operated or conducted separately or in connection with another
business, occupation, trade, or profession shall pay the amount of tax
specified for the required license. The person designated by the city as the
license fee collector and administrator is charged with the enforcement of
these provisions and shall have all the powers, duties and authority set out in
§§
110.20 through
110.35.
(Ord. 3, passed 3-19-56; Am. Ord. 18-10, passed 11-27-18)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.03 GROSS RECEIPTS TAX.
   (A)   Each person, firm, organization, or corporation owning, operating,
conducting, or engaging in any business, whether operated or conducted
separately or in connection with another business, occupation, trade, or
profession, the gross receipts of which have been not more than $30,000 for the
taxpayer's preceding business year, fiscal or calendar, shall pay, except as
provided, the amount of $25. Gross receipts means all revenue or proceeds
derived from the sale, lease, or rental of goods, services, or property, by a
business entity, reduced by sales and excise taxes paid and returns and
allowances.
   (B)   Each person, firm, organization, or corporation owning, operating,
conducting, or engaging in any business, whether operated or conducted
separately or in connection with another business, occupation, trade, or
profession, the gross receipts of which have been $30,000 or more for the
taxpayer's preceding business year, fiscal or calendar, shall pay, except as
provided, according to the following scale:
      (1)   All businesses having gross receipts of:
 
$30,000 - $40,000  $30
$40,000 - $50,000  $40
$50,000 - $60,000  $50
$60,000 - $70,000  $60
$70,000 - $80,000  $70
$80,000 - $90,000  $80
$90,000 - $100,000 $90
 
      (2)   All businesses having gross receipts in excess of $100,000 shall be
taxed on the additional receipts at the rate of $0.50 for each $1,000, or
fraction thereof.
      (3)   Receipts shall consist of money or other property of value.
Receipts shall be considered as received at the office or place of business of
the taxpayer where the services or the transactions giving; rise to the
receipts are chiefly performed, negotiated or take place. If the receipts
result from orders received by telephone or mail, the receipts shall be
allocated to the place of business where the orders arc processed. The gross
commissions of a manufacturer's agent or an insurance agent shall constitute
his gross receipts.
      (4)   On or before April 30 of each year, the taxpayer shall make an
annual report to the city, on a form furnished by the City Treasurer, showing
the taxpayer's gross receipts within the city during the taxpayer's preceding
business year, fiscal or calendar. The taxpayer shall state on the form the
amount of gross receipts in the city reported to the Federal government on
taxpayer's income tax return for that year. The report on the form shall be
signed by the taxpayer, or taxpayer's agent, subject to penalties for perjury
if the statements are not true and correct. The amount of the license tax for
the current tax year shall be based on the gross receipts for the taxpayer's
preceding business year.
      (5)   If the taxpayer starts in business and becomes subject to the tax
after the beginning of the tax year, taxpayer shall pay the minimum annual tax
of $25 at that time, for the remainder of the tax year. When taxpayer's first
annual report to the city is due taxpayer shall report gross receipts for the
part of the preceding year during which taxpayer was in business. The taxpayer
shall also then pay the license tax for the current year computed as provided
for in division (B)(6).
      (6)   If the gross receipts reported by the taxpayer are for only a
portion of the taxpayer's business year then the license tax for the current
tax year shall be based on the amount which will be produced by multiplying the
average monthly gross receipts for such portion of a year by 12; subject,
however, to the requirements of the minimum tax payment.
(Ord. 3, passed 3-19-56; Am. Ord. 4, passed 2-13-57; Am. Ord. 2, passed 3-11-
58; Am. Ord. 2, passed 3-0-59; Am. Ord. 9, passed 4-24-73; Am. Ord. 8, passed
4-26-77; Am. Ord. 12, passed 12-29-79; Am. Ord. 16-07, passed 7-26-16; Am. Ord.
18-10, passed 11-27-18) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 EXPIRATION DATE OF LICENSE, WHEN FEE WILL BE PRO RATED.
   (A)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall be due on April 30 of
each year.
   (B)   No license shall be issued for less than a full year.
(Ord. 9, passed 4-24-73; Am. Ord. 16-07, passed 7-26-16; Am. Ord. 18-10, passed
11-27-18)
§ 110.05 CITY CLERK TO ISSUE LICENSE.
   Every person desiring to obtain a city license for any of the businesses
enumerated shall apply for a certificate to the City Clerk, and the person to
whom the license certificate is issued shall pay the required fee to the City
Clerk upon certificate of license. The certificate shall be evidence of the
fact that the license tax has been fully paid. The license certificate shall be
void and of no effect without the signature of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 3, passed 3-19-56; Am. Ord. 18-10, passed 11-27-18) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE TO BE POSTED.
   (A)   Every person holding a license for any of the purposes mentioned
herein shall keep the license posted in their place of business, if any, in a
conspicuous place, or if they have no particular place of business, shall keep
the license on their person, so that it may be inspected upon request by the
proper authorities, and every person holding a city license shall produce the
license for inspection Whenever required to do so by the City Attorney, City
Clerk, City Treasurer, or other proper agent or officer of the city.
   (B)   No license shall be assigned or transferred to any person for any
reason at any time, except by authority of the City Council.
(Ord. 3, passed 3-19-56; Am. Ord. 18-10, passed 11-27-18) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 PURPOSE; FEES TO BE DEPOSITED IN GENERAL FUND.
   Pursuant to KRS 92.330, the purpose of this subchapter is to fund the cost
of government services that are essential to the successful operation of
commercial enterprise in the city; including, but not limited to, police
protection, sanitation, public works, the maintenance and capital improvement
of the public infrastructure, which is used daily by the business community and
its patrons. All revenue received from the payment of license taxes and
penalties required by this chapter shall be paid into and become a part of the
general fund of the city to be used for the general operating expenses of the
city.
(Ord. 3, passed 3-19-56; Am. Ord. 16-07, passed 7-26-16; Am. Ord. 18-10, passed
11-27-18)
§ 110.08 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   Public service corporations that pay an ad valorem tax on property
valued and assessed by the Kentucky Department of Revenue pursuant to the
provisions of KRS 136.120. Business entities whose business is predominantly
non-public sendee and the public service business is merely incidental to the
principal business, are required to pay a license tax on their net profit
derived from the non-public service activities.
   (B)   Any bank, trust company, combined bank and trust company or combined
trust, banking and title business in this state, any savings and loan
association whether state or federally chartered.
   (C)   Any company providing multichannel video programming services or
communications services as defined in KRS 136.602. If only a portion of an
entity's business is providing multichannel video programming services or
communications services, including products or services that are related to and
provided in support of the multichannel video programming services or
communications services, this exclusion applies only to that portion of the
business that provides multichannel video programming services or
communications services including products or services that are related to and
provided in support of the multichannel video programming services or
communications services.
   (D)   Any profits, earnings, or distributions of an investment fund which
would qualify under KRS 154.20-250 to 154.20-284 to the extent any profits,
earnings, or distributions would not be taxable to an individual investor.
   (E)   Any income or compensation received by precinct workers for election
training or work at election booths in state, county and local primary, regular
or special elections.
   (F)   Any income or compensation received by members of the Kentucky
National Guard for active duty training, unit training assemblies and annual
field training.
   (G)   Insurance companies who pay a license tax based on premiums under KRS
91A.080.
   (H)   Persons or business entities that have been issued a license from the
city to engage in the manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic beverages may
exclude the portion of their net profits derived from the manufacturing or
trafficking in alcoholic beverages.
   (I)   A sale of used goods (such as a yard sale) conducted or participated
in by the resident of the residential property on which the sale takes place
shall not be considered a business for purposes of this chapter unless such
sales are conducted for more than three consecutive days or for more than four
times a year.
   (J)   Payments received by an individual on account of that individual's old
age or retirement benefits, disability, sickness, accident, death,
unemployment, workers compensation, personal injury, or property loss.
   (K)   Isolated and infrequent business within the city, where, in the city's
determination, the cost of administration make collection difficult and cost
prohibitive. The following factors shall be weighed by the city in making this
determination:
      (1)   The frequency and dollar amount of the business activity conducted
in the city;
      (2)   Whether the business conducted within the city is essential, or
merely incidental, to the overall business transaction;
      (3)   Has the person solicited for business in the city through
advertisements, flyers, mailings, calls, or other actions that show an intent
to engage in business within the city;
      (4)   Does the business own, rent or use a physical location for a
business purpose in the city;
      (5)   Whether the business conducted within the city is of a character
which can reasonably be segregated and calculated.
   (L)   Exemptions from taxation are generally disfavored and therefore the
burden of proving entitlement to an exemption is on the party claiming an
exemption to demonstrate his/her/its entitlement to the exemption. Such claim
must be made in writing, within 90 days from notice or demand from the city to
pay or file under this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 18-10, passed 11-27-18)
§ 110.09 LATE PAYMENT PENALTY.
   (A)   Any or all licenses fees due to be paid on April 30 and not paid
within 30 days from that date shall be subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   All license fees which remain unpaid after they become due shall
bear interest at the rate of 1.5% per month (or part thereof). Any person who
fails to pay the license fee when it shall become due, shall also be charged a
penalty of 10% of the amount of the unpaid license fees or $10, whichever shall
be greater.
      (2)   Any person who shall fail, neglect, or refuse to make any return
required by §§
110.01 through
110.08, or any person who shall refuse to permit the collector or any agent or
employee designated by him in writing, to examine books, records, and papers
pertaining to information required thereunder, or who shall knowingly make any
incomplete, false, or fraudulent return; or who shall attempt to do anything
whatsoever to avoid the full disclosure of the amount of earnings in order to
avoid the payment of the whole or any part of the license fee, shall become
liable to the city for such fees as well as the interest and penalty thereon,
and shall in addition, be subject to citation and upon conviction, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of not less than $100 or
more than $500, or imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or to both fine and
imprisonment, for each offense. Such criminal penalties shall be in addition to
the penalties imposed above.
(Ord. 18-10, passed 11-27-18)
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE
§ 110.20 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter may be referred to as the St. Matthews Occupational License
Fee Ordinance.
(Ord. 3-1986, passed - -86; Am. Ord. 18-10, passed 11-27-18)
§ 110.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “ASSOCIATION.” A partnership, limited partnership, joint venture, or any
other form of unincorporated enterprise, owned or engaged in by two or more
persons.
   “CITY.” The City of St. Matthews, Kentucky.
   “COLLECTOR.” The person designated by the city as the license fee collector
and adminjstrator under this subchapter.
   “COMMISSION MERCHANT” or “COMMISSION EMPLOYEE.” Any person who engjages in
the sale of goods for compensation in the form of a commission only. Also, any
person who buys and resells goods, if the person does not maintain a retail
store or wholesale sales floor, and does not store goods except during short
periods before transportation to the buyer.
   “COMPENSATION.” The compensation paid by any employer, regardless of whether
the employer is a for profit or a non-profit entity, to any employee, including
wages, salaries, commissions, bonuses, and all other kinds of employee
compensation whatsoever. “COMPENSATION” also includes commission received by a
commission merchant or commission employee. “COMPENSATION” as herein defined
does not include fringe benefits paid for by an employer.
   “CORPORATION.” A corporation or joint stock association organized under the
laws of the United States, the State of Kentucky, or any other state,
territory, foreign country, or dependency.
   “EMPLOYEE.” Any person engaging in or following any trade, occupation,
profession, or activity as defined herein and receiving compensation consisting
of either wages, salary, commission, or other forms of compensation. The
substance and not the form shall govern, and no employee working under the
supervision of another person shall be considered to be an independent
contractor merely because a contract has been signed making it appear that the
employee is an independent contractor.
   “EMPLOYER.” Any individual, person, partnership, association, corporation,
governmental body or unit or administration or agency, or any other activity or
any other entity, who or that employs one or more persons on a salary, wage,
commission, or other compensation basis. “EMPLOYER” shall person or entity
liable for the withholding of occupational license fees from the compensation
of an employee.
   “FIRM.” Any sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, joint venture,
limited partnership, or other form of organization formed for the purpose of
doing business.
   “INDIVIDUAL.” A natural person.
   “LICENSEE.” Any person required to pay a license fee under this subchapter.
   “OCCUPATION, TRADE, PROFESSION, OR OTHER ACTIVITY.” The doing of any kind of
work, the rendering of any kind of personal service, or the holding of any kind
of position or job within the city, by any clerk, laborer, tradesman, manager,
official, or other employee, where the relationship between the individual
performing the services and the person for whom such services are rendered, is,
as to those services, the legal relationship of employer and employee,
including also a partner of the firm or officer who receives a salary for his
personal services rendered in the business of the firm or corporation; and
shall also include an officer or employee employed either by election or
appointment, by the federal, state, county, or city, where the services of the
official or employee are rendered within the city.
   “PERSON.” Any natural person, copartnership, fiduciary, association, or
corporation. Whenever used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty in
the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as applied to a partnership or
other form of unincorporated enterprise, shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, shall mean the officers and directors
thereof.
   “RESIDENT.” Any natural person, copartnership, fiduciary, association,
corporation, or other entity domiciled or having a business situs in the city.
   “SALARIES, WAGES, COMMISSIONS, AND OTHER COMPENSATIONS” or “WAGES.” The
total gross amount of all salaries, wages, commissions, bonuses, shares of net
partnership receipts or withdrawals, corporate dividends paid in lieu of
salaries or wages, which are required to be reported for Federal income tax
purposes, and any and all other payments or other considerations which a person
receives from, or is entitled to, for any work done or personal services
rendered within the city in any trade, occupation, or profession, or any other
activity, including all deductions whether for tax, insurance, or other, but
excluding fringe benefits paid for by an employer. Amounts paid to traveling
salesmen or other workers as allowance or reimbursement for travel or other
expenses incurred in the business of the employer, except to the extent of the
excess of such amounts over such expenses actually incurred and accounted for
by the employee to his employer, are excluded.
   “SALES WITHIN THE CITY.” Sales of merchandise delivered to a customer within
the city, or services performed within the city for a customer.
   “TREASURER.” The Treasurer of the City of St. Matthews, Kentucky.
(Ord. 3-1986, passed - -86; Am. Ord. 18-10, passed 11-27-18)
§ 110.22 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The occupational license fee shall apply only to employees of persons,
firms, corporations, and associations doing business within the boundaries of
the city.
   (B)   A person, firm, corporation, or association is “DOING BUSINESS WITHIN
THE BOUNDARIES OF THE CITY” if the entity does any of the following:
      (1)   Employs one or more employees, commission merchants, or commission
employees to work in the city.
      (2)   Maintains a place of business within the city.
      (3)   Owns, manages, or leases property in the city. Managing rental
property owned by the entity or by others is included.
      (4)   Solicits any business within the city, provided that solicitation
by advertising only shall not subject any person to license fee.
(Ord. 3-1986, passed - -86; Am. Ord. 18-10, passed 11-27-18)
§ 110.23 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEES IMPOSED; RATE.
   On and after July 1, 1986, there is levied and imposed an annual
occupational license fee upon all persons engaged in any occupation, trade,
profession, or business in the city, for the privilege of engaging in the
occupation, trade, profession, or business. The occupational license fee shall
be measured by and be equal to 0.75% of the gross annual salaries, wages, or
compensations earned by any such persons for work done or services performed or
rendered within the city.
(Ord. 3-1986, passed - -86; Am. Ord. 18-10, passed 11-27-18) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.24 APPORTIONMENT OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEES.
   Where salaries, wages, commissions, and other compensations are earned for
work performed or services rendered both within and without the city,
occupational license fees shall be measured by such part of the salaries,
wages, commissions, and other compensations as is earned as a result of work
performed or services rendered in the city. Such occupational license fees
shall be computed by obtaining the percentage which the compensation for work
performed or services rendered within the city bears to the total compensation
earned, in accordance with KRS 67.753.
(Ord. 3-1986, passed - -86; Am. Ord. 18-10, passed 11-27-18)
§ 110.25 SPECIFIC RECEIPTS EXCLUDED FROM OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE.
   The following money receipts are not deemed to be salaries, wages,
commissions, and other compensations and net profits, within the meaning of
this subchapter.
   (A)   Old age or retirement payments. Periodic payments commonly recognized
as old age or retirement pensions, made to persons retired from service after
reaching a specific age or a stated period of employment, are not subject to
the license fee.
   (B)   Disability, sickness, and accident benefits, unemployment
compensation, and other insurance payment received from personal injuries or
property losses. Payments to employees by an employer under disability,
sickness, and accident benefit plan are not subject to the license fee.
Unemployment compensation payments by the Commonwealth of Kentucky, or any
other agent, are not subject to the occupational license fee. Payments received
for personal injuries and property losses are not subject to the occupational
license fee.
   (C)   Death benefits. Death benefits payable to the beneficiary of an
employee or to his estate, whether payable in a single sum or otherwise, are
not subject to the occupational license fee.
   (D)   Worker's compensation benefits. Benefits arising under the Worker's
Compensation Act as compensation for disabilities sustained during the course
of employment, together with any amount of damages received by suit or
agreement, on account of such disability are not subject to the occupational
license fee.
   (E)   Salaries, wages, commissions, and other compensations derived from
isolated and infrequent business activity within the city, where, in the city's
determination, the cost of administration make collection difficult and cost
prohibitive. The following factors shall be weighed by the city in making this
determination:
      (1)   The frequency and dollar amount of the business activity conducted
in the city;
      (2)   Whether the business conducted within the city is essential, or
merely incidental, to the overall business transaction;
      (3)   Has the person solicited for business in the city through
advertisements, flyers, mailings, calls, or other actions that show an intent
to engage in business within the city;
      (4)   Does the business own. rent or use a physical location for a
business purpose in the city;
      (5)   Whether the business conducted within the city is of a character
which can reasonably be segregated and calculated.
   (F)   Exemptions from taxation are generally disfavored and therefore the
burden of proving entitlement to an exemption is on the party claiming an
exemption to demonstrate his/her/its entitlement to the exemption. Such claim
must be made in writing, within 90 days from notice or demand from the city to
pay or file under this chapter.
(Ord. 3-1986, passed - -86; Am. Ord. 18-10, passed 11-27-18)
§ 110.26 EMPLOYER LOCATED OUTSIDE CITY.
   Employers located outside of the city are subject to withholding of
occupational license fees on the salaries, wages, commissions, and other
compensation of employees where the employer is doing business in the city as
defined in §
110.22.
(Ord. 3-1986, passed - -86; Am. Ord. 18-10, passed 11-27-18)
§ 110.27 COLLECTOR DESIGNATED ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL; AUTHORIZATION TO PROMULGATE
RULES.
   (A)   The collector is charged with the enforcement of these provisions, and
is empowered to prescribe, adopt, promulgate, and enforce rules and regulations
relating to any matter pertaining to the administration and enforcement of
these provisions, including but not limited to provisions for the reexamination
and correction of returns to which an underpayment or overpayment is claimed or
found to have been made. The rules and regulations as promulgated by the
collector shall be binding upon the licensee and employers. However, all such
rules, regulations, and decisions shall be subject to the consent and approval
of the Mayor or City Council.
   (B)   The collector, or any agent or employee designated by him the
collector in writing, may examine the books, papers, and records of any
employee or supposed employee of any licensee or supposed licensee in order to
determine the accuracy of any return made, or, if no return was made, to
ascertain and assess the amount of occupational license fee imposed by the
terms of this subchapter, as the collector may deem this reasonably necessary
for purposes incident to the performance of the collector's duties hereunder.
The collector may enforce this right by application to the appropriate court
having jurisdiction over these matters.
(Ord. 3-1986, passed - -86; Am. Ord. 18-10, passed 11-27-18)
§ 110.28 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE REPORTING NUMBERS; PAYMENT OF FEE;
WITHHOLDING.
   (A)   Each employer who employs one or more persons within the city shall
obtain from the city an occupational license fee reporting number.
   (B)   Each employer who employs one or more persons within the city shall
deduct monthly, or more often than monthly, at the time of payment thereof, the
occupational license fee due from each employee measured by the amount of
salaries, wages, commissions, or compensation due by the employer to the
employee subject to the occupational license fee and shall pay to the treasurer
the amount of occupational license fee so deducted. The payment required to be
made on account of deductions by employers shall be made quarterly to the
treasurer for the quarterly periods ending on the last day of March, June,
September, and December of each year, on or before the last day of the month
next following the quarter of the deduction. However, the collector may, by
regulation, require employers to make returns and to remit the occupational
license fees withheld more frequently.
   (C)   Each employer who employs one or more persons within the city shall
annually during the month of January make a return to the collector, in which
return is set forth the name and residence of each employee of the employer,
employed during the preceding calendar year, his or her social security number
(or other Federal identification number), setting forth the total amount of
salaries, wages, commissions, or other compensations earned during the
preceding calendar year by each employee and the amount thereof earned within
the city and subject to the occupational license fee imposed by this
subchapter. It shall be the duty of each employer who has deducted the
occupational license fee from the wages, salaries, commission, or other
compensation referred to above, to furnish the employee a statement showing the
amount of salary earned and occupational license fee deducted and paid by the
employer during the preceding calendar year, on or before the last day of
January of each year. However, the failure or omission of any employer to
deduct the occupational license fee shall not relieve the employee from the
payment of the occupational license fee and compliance with such regulation
with respect to making returns and payments thereof, as may be fixed in this
subchapter or established by the collector.
   (D)   An employer who deducts and withholds the city occupational license
fee from one or more persons under his employ and who fails to file a return
and make payment therewith shall in addition to the penalties prescribed herein
upon conviction be subject to a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500,
or imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or both fine and imprisonment, for
each offense. Such criminal penalties shall be in addition to the penalties
imposed above.
(Ord. 3-1986, passed - -86; Am. Ord. 18-10, passed 11-27-18)
§ 110.29 RETURNS.
   (A)   Each person subject to an occupational license fee imposed by this
subchapter shall, fifteenth on or before the day of the fourth month of his
their tax year, make and file with , a return on a form furnished by or
attainable from the treasurer, setting forth the total aggregate amount of
salaries, wages, commissions, and other compensation (with appropriate
schedules) and all calculations necessary to report occupational license fee
during the preceding license year. However, where the entire occupational
license fee due under this subchapter has been withheld and paid under the
provisions hereof, the collector may waive the filing of the return by the
licensee. Where the fiscal year of the licensee differs from the calendar year
and licensee files a Federal income tax return for that other fiscal period,
and where the return is made for a fiscal year, or any other period different
from the calendar year, the return shall be made on or before the fifteenth day
of the fourth month following the end of the fiscal year, or other period. The
license return shall also show the amount of occupational license fee imposed
by this subchapter. The first return under this subchapter shall be required to
show only compensation earned from the effective date of this subchapter to the
close of the calendar or fiscal period. The person making the return shall, at
the time of the filing thereof, pay to the treasurer the amount of occupational
license fees shown to be due therein. Where any portion of the occupational
license fee so due shall have been deducted at the source, credit for such
amount shall be deducted from the amount shown to be due and only the balance,
if any, shall be due and payable at the time of the filing of the return, as
hereinabove provided.
   (B)   The Collector shall have the authority to extend the time of filing
the occupational license fee return. Extension shall be upon the written
request of the licensee and shall be received by the collector prior to the due
date of the occupational license fee return. The written request shall be
accompanied by a copy of the appropriate state or Federal applications for
extension. Regardless of the number of extensions approved, all occupational
license fees remaining unpaid after they become due shall bear interest at the
rate of 1.5% per month (or part thereof) until paid. All occupational license
fees remaining unpaid for 30 days after the original due date, or approved
extension date, whichever shall be later, shall be subject to a 10% penalty of
the amount of such unpaid occupational license fees, or $10, whichever shall be
greater.
   (C)   Each person filing a return shall provide a copy of Form Schedule C,
1040 (Profit or Loss from Business or Profession); Form Schedule E, 1040
(Supplemental Income from Rents, etc.); Form 765 or 1065 (partnerships); Form
741 or 1041 (Fiduciary/Estate-Trusts); Form 720 or 1120 (Corporations), as
applicable, attached to the return filed with.
(Ord. 3-1986, passed - -86; Am. Ord. 18-10, passed 11-27-18) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.30 COLLECTION OF LICENSE FEES; RECORDS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the collector to collect and the Treasurer to
receive the occupational license fees imposed by this subchapter.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall give a receipt to the collector for such fees and
shall keep records showing the amount paid by each licensee and employer and
the date of such receipt.
(Ord. 3-1986, passed - -86; Am. Ord. 18-10, passed 11-27-18)
§ 110.31 PURPOSE; FEES TO BE DEPOSITED IN GENERAL FUND.
   (A)   All moneys derived from occupational license fees under the provisions
of this subchapter shall be paid to the City Treasurer and placed to the credit
of the general revenue fund of the city. The revenue of the city and therefrom
shall be used and expended in defraying current, general, and incidental
expenses for capital improvements.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide revenue for the
general fund of the city and it is not the intention of the city or of this
subchapter to impose and require any occupational license fee prohibited by
law. Pursuant to KRS 92.330, the purpose of this subchapter is to fund the cost
of government services that are essential to the successful operation of
commercial enterprise in the city; including, but not limited to, police
protection, sanitation, public works, and the maintenance and capital
improvement of the public infrastructure, which is used daily by the business
community and its patrons.
(Ord. 3-1986, passed - -86; Am. Ord. 16-07, passed 7-26-16; Am. Ord. 18-10,
passed 11-27-18)
§ 110.32 INFORMATION DEEMED CONFIDENTIAL; PENALTY FOR DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   Any information, including returns, documents, or payments made
pursuant hereto, and any other information gained by the treasurer, collector,
or any other official, agent, or employee of the city as a result of any
return, investigation, hearing, or verification required or authorized by this
subchapter shall be confidential except in accordance with proper judicial
order. Any person or agent divulging such information shall, upon conviction,
be subjected to a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $200, or imprisonment
not to exceed 60 days, or both, at the discretion of the court, and, upon
conviction, shall be dismissed from employment by the city.
   (B)   However, such person may disclose to the commissioner of revenue of
the state, or their duly authorized agent, or to the Commissioner of the
Internal Revenue Service, or his their duly authorized agent, all such
information, and extend the right to inspect any of the books and records of
the city to the Commissioner of Revenue of the state and to the Commissioner of
the Internal Revenue Service, who must grant to the city the reciprocal right
to obtain information from the files and records of the department of revenue
of the state and from the files and records of the Internal Revenue Service;
and maintains the privilege character of the information so furnished to them.
(Ord. 3-1986, passed - -86; Am. Ord. 18-10, passed 11-27-18)
§ 110.33 COLLECTOR’S DUTIES.
   The Collector shall have the following duties in connection with the
occupational license tax.
   (A)   Keep accurate records of all returns and of all sums received for
occupational license taxes. Such records shall contain the names and addresses
of each taxpayer, and the dates and amounts of payments. The nature of
installment payments shall be indicated on the records. The Collector shall
keep the original returns on file for a period of not less than three years
after filing.
   (B)   Enforce the provisions of this subchapter, all in accordance with any
policies set forth in any ordinance, municipal order, or executive order.
   (C)   Prepare forms and instructions for the returns and payments required
by this subchapter. All instructions shall be clear and shall be as short as
possible.
   (D)   Examine returns and, for any returns appearing to be incorrect, make
inquiries, investigations, and adjustments in the amount of tax due.
   (E)   Where necessary to determine accurate figures for determining the
amount of tax due, examine books, records, and information stored in computers
of any taxpayer, provided that each city officer or employee acting under this
provision shall identify himself themselves and request the information
desired. If the officer or employee is refused admission to any place of
business or refused access to any records or computer memory, the collector or
employee shall leave the premises and shall seek an appropriate court order,
with the assistance of the City Attorney, to obtain access to the information
needed.
   (F)   The Collector may delegate duties assigned to the Collector in this
subchapter to any officer or employee under Collector's supervision, provided
that the Collector shall approve the form of all returns and written
instructions.
   (G)   The Collector shall prepare pamphlets for distribution to the public,
clearly explaining the occupational license tax and the returns and payments
required.
   (H)   The Collector shall perform all of the other duties assigned to the
Collector by this subchapter.
(Ord. 3-1986, passed - -86; Am. Ord. 18-10, passed 11-27-18)
§ 110.34 PROCEDURE FOR APPLYING FOR REFUND OF OVERPAYMENT.
   (A)   Any person, employer, employee, licensee who truly believes that they
have made or permitted an overpayment of their liability for any occupational
license fee required by this subchapter may apply for refund of the overpayment
provided that they file an amended return, verified under oath and setting
forth in detail the full explanation of the reason of the claimed overpayment
of their liability, within two years of the date the overpayment is made or the
date the occupational license fee payment was due, whichever occurs first.
   (B)   If a refund has been properly claimed according to the provisions of
division (A) above, then the collector shall have the authority to honor and
refund any overpayment actually made above actual liability upon the
occupational license fee required under this subchapter which the collector
determines within the collector's sole discretion was made through honest
mistake or inadvertence.
   (C)   In no event shall any refund be made for any payment upon any
occupational license fee unless the refund claim is submitted and filed in
strict compliance with the foregoing provisions of this section upon such
refund claim forms or amended return forms as hereafter be promulgated by the
Collector from time to time.
(Ord. 3-1986, passed - -86; Am. Ord. 18-10, passed 11-27-18)
§ 110.35 FAILURE TO FILE RETURN; FAILURE TO PAY; UNDERPAYMENTS.
   The following rules shall apply when an employer fails to file a return,
fails to pay the occupational license fees withheld when due, or pays less than
the amount due.
   (A)   If the person (employer) liable for withholding the occupational
license fees and filing a return fails to make a return, the Collector shall
prepare an estimate of the amount of occupational license fees due based on the
best information available to the collector. The Collector may make
investigations to assist in making the estimate. The Collector may consider the
number of employees, the wages or other compensation customarily paid in the
type of business, the volume of business done, and customary commissions or
bonuses paid to employees in the same type of business, and any other relevant
matters. The Collector may estimate the compensation customary in the business
or similar businesses. When the Collector estimates the occupational license
fees, the amount of interest and late charges provided by this subchapter shall
be added to the fees due. In addition to all the provisions set out in
Chapter 110 herein, the Collector shall also have the discretion to use of all
the powers for collection, enforcement and all the penalties for failure to
file or pay under KRS 67.750 through 67.795.
      (1)   The Collector shall notify the person (employer) of the amount due.
Notification shall be in writing and shall contain a brief description of the
method and estimated figures used in arriving at the estimated tax.
      (2)   Any person (employer) may dispute the amount of the estimated tax
by filing within 30 days of notification of the estimated fees, a return
accompanied by payment of the entire balance due together with the interest and
late charges due. This return shall be processed like any late return, the
Collector and shall establish the occupational license fees liability of the
person (employer) in place of the estimated amount prepared by the Collector.
The Collector may, however, later determine that the amount shown in the return
is insufficient so there is a deficiency, in the same manner as in the case of
other returns.
   (B)   If the Collector determines, by examining available evidence, that the
amount of occupational license fees paid over by the employer is less than the
amount required by this subchapter, the collector shall notify the employer of
the deficiency.
      (1)   The Collector may use any of the methods authorized in division (A)
of this section to determine whether a deficiency exists and to determine the
amount of deficiency.
      (2)   The Collector shall thereupon notify the employer of the
deficiency. Notice shall be in writing and shall state not only the amount of
the deficiency but also the methods and estimates used in arriving at the
amount of the deficiency.
      (3)   If the employer does not object within 30 days of the date of
receiving notice, the employer shall be deemed to have accepted the revised
figures for the occupational tax liability. If the employer does file written
objection within the time specified, the employer shall pay the fees, together
with penalties and interest, under protest and may thereupon pursue
administrative and judicial remedies as provided by ordinance and by state law
to seek a refund.
   (C)   If the Collector finds that any employer has overpaid, the collector
shall notify him the employer of his the overpayment and shall refund the
amount of the overpayment to him the employer.
   (D)   When the Collector notifies any employer of any estimated amount due,
alleged overpayment, or refund, the collector shall include in the notice clear
instructions on how, when, and where the employer may protest or appeal the
decision.
   (E)   If an employer or any person, firm, association, or corporation
required by this subchapter to pay a fee or to file a return shall fail to file
any return for any year, failure to file shall constitute a continuing offense
against the city and the collector may proceed to estimate and collect the
occupational license fees at any time. In all other cases, no increases shall
be made in the employer's occupational license fee liability unless the first
notice of such increase is received by the employer within three years of the
time the annual return was first due.
(Ord. 3-1986, passed - -86; Am. Ord. 18-10, passed 11-27-18) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §§
110.20 through
110.35, shall be subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   All occupational license fees which remain unpaid after they become
due shall bear interest at the rate of 1.5% per month (or part thereof). Any
person who fails to pay the occupational license fee when it shall become due,
shall also be charged a penalty of 10% of the amount of the unpaid license fees
or $10, whichever shall be greater.
      (2)   Any person who shall fail, neglect, or refuse to make any return
required by §§
110.20 through
110.35, or any employer who shall fail to withhold the occupational license
fee, or to pay to the city those so withheld thereunder, or any person who
shall refuse to permit the collector or any agent or employee designated by him
the collector in writing, to examine books, records, and papers pertaining to
information required thereunder, or who shall knowingly make any incomplete,
false, or fraudulent return; fail, neglect or refuse to apply for an
occupational license fee reporting number as required by §
110.29, or who shall attempt to do anything whatsoever to avoid the full
disclosure of the amount of earnings in order to avoid the payment of the whole
or any part of the license fee, shall become liable to the city for such fees
as well as the interest and penalty thereon, and shall in addition, be subject
to citation and upon conviction, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
subject to a fine of not less than $100 or more than $500, or imprisonment for
not more than 30 days, or to both fine and imprisonment, for each offense. Such
criminal penalties shall be in addition to the penalties imposed above.
(Ord. 3-1986, passed - -86; Am. Ord. 18-10, passed 11-27-18)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Short title, definitions
   
111.02   (Reserved)
   
111.03   (Reserved)
   
111.04   Revocation of licenses
   
111.05   License nontransferable
   
111.06   Licensee to purchase license
   
111.07   License not assignable
   
111.08   (Reserved)
   
111.09   License not issuable to a private residence
   
111.10   Presumptions of possession for sale when spirits outside after hours
   
111.11   Expiration
   
111.12   (Reserved)
   
111.13   Issuance of temporary license
   
111.14   Transfer of license
   
111.15   Conditions for grant of licenses
   
111.16   (Reserved)
   
111.17   Money received goes to general fund
   
111.18   Effect of delinquent taxes
   
111.19   Lost or destroyed licenses
   
111.20   Revocation or suspension of licenses
   
111.21   Adoption of state law
   
111.22   License fees in addition to other taxes
   
111.23   Licensing and sale of alcoholic beverages
   
111.24   Sunday sales
   
111.25   Special hours license
Sale to Minors
   
111.30   Minor not to enter premises
   
111.31   Minor not to purchase alcoholic beverages
   
111.32   Minor misrepresenting age
   
111.33   Parent or guardian not to allow violation
   
111.34   State law unaffected
   
111.35   Warning to be displayed
Hours of Operation
   
111.40   Hours of business
   
111.41   (Reserved)
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic beverage control administrator, see §
31.17
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 SHORT TITLE, DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the
St. Matthews ABC Ordinance.
   (B)   Word or words, phrases, or terms not specifically defined whenever
used in this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise, shall have the
same meaning as set out in the Kentucky Alcoholic Beverage Control Law, KRS,
Chapter 243.
(Ord. 6, passed 5-11-54; amend. Ord. 13-05, passed 10-22-13)
§ 111.02 (RESERVED).
§ 111.03 (RESERVED).
§ 111.04 REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   Any license issued under this chapter may be revoked by the City ABC
Administrator for violation of any provisions of the Kentucky Alcoholic
Beverage Control Law and may be revoked for violation of the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 6, passed 5-11-54; amend. Ord. 13-05, passed 10-22-13)
§ 111.05 LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE.
   No license to sell distilled spirits under this chapter shall be
transferable either as to licensee or location except as provided in KRS
Chapter 243.
(Ord. 6, passed 5-11-54; amend. Ord. 13-05, passed 10-22-13) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 LICENSEE TO PURCHASE LICENSE.
   The license tax for every license issued under this chapter shall be payable
by the person making application for the license and to whom the license is
issued, and no other person, firm, or corporation shall pay for any license
issued under this chapter. In addition to all other penalties provided in this
chapter, a violation of this section shall authorize and require the revocation
of the license, the tax of which was paid by another, and also the revocation
of the license, if any, of the person, firm, or corporation paying for the
license of another.
(Ord. 6, passed 5-11-54; amend. Ord. 13-05, passed 10-22-13) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 LICENSE NOT ASSIGNABLE.
   No assignment of any license issued under this chapter shall be made except
by order of any court of competent jurisdiction and with the approval of the
city council.
(Ord. 6, passed 5-11-54; amend. Ord. 13-05, passed 10-22-13) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 (RESERVED).
§ 111.09 LICENSE NOT ISSUABLE TO A PRIVATE RESIDENCE.
   No license or permit shall be issued to dispense alcoholic beverages from
any home or private residence.
(Ord. 6, passed 5-11-54; amend. Ord. 13-05, passed 10-22-13) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.10 PRESUMPTION OF POSSESSION FOR SALE WHEN SPIRITS OUTSIDE AFTER HOURS.
   If any distilled spirits are found on the outside of a locked or closed off
department of any premises licensed to sell distilled spirits at retail during
any hours when the licensee is prohibited by state law from selling distilled
spirits, a prima facie presumption shall arise that the distilled spirits were
kept on the outside of the locked or closed off department for the purpose of
sale in violation of this chapter and state law. This violation shall be
grounds for revocation or suspension of the license and in addition to other
penalties provided for the violation of this section a city police officer or
Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator shall be authorized to confiscate and
destroy any and all distilled spirits.
(Ord. 6, passed 5-11-54; amend. Ord. 13-05, passed 10-22-13) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.11 EXPIRATION.
   (A)   All city licenses, except special temporary licenses, shall begin on
November 1 of any year and shall be valid for a period of no more than one year
expiring on October 31 of the following year, and shall begin and end on the
dates specified by the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrative
Regulations for the city. Any licenses issued after December 31 of any year
shall be assessed a fee which is based on the pro rata portion of the remainder
of the license period; however, the cost of any license shall not be less than
1/2 the amount of the full fee for an annual license of that type. When any
person applies for a new license authorized by KRS Chapters 241 to 244 and he
or she shall be charged, if the license is issued, the full fee for the
respective license if 6 months or more remain before the license is due to be
renewed and 1/2 the fee if less than 6 months remain before the license is due
to be renewed. No abatement of license fees shall be permitted to any person
who held a license of the same kind for the same premises in the preceding
license period and who was actually doing business under the license during the
last month of the preceding license period.
   (B)   The renewal by the city of the certificate or permit of any alcoholic
beverage license shall not be construed to waive or condone any violation that
occurred prior to the renewal and shall not prevent subsequent proceedings
against the licensee.
(Ord. 6, passed 5-11-54; amend. Ord. 13-05, passed 10-22-13)
§ 111.12 (RESERVED).
§ 111.13 ISSUANCE OF TEMPORARY LICENSE.
   (A)   The City ABC Administrator may, in his or her discretion, grant a
temporary license for the sale of malt beverages by the drink, the fee for
which shall be $12.50.
   (B)   Special temporary licenses. A special temporary distilled spirits and
wine license or a special temporary wine license may be issued only as set out
in KRS 243.260. This license shall authorize the licensee to exercise the
privileges of a quota retail drink license and an NQ4 retail malt beverage
license at designated premises for a specified and limited time, not to exceed
30 days and shall expire when the qualifying event ends. All restrictions and
prohibitions applying to a distilled spirits and wine quota retail drink
license or an NQ4 retail malt beverage drink license shall apply to a special
temporary license.
   (C)   A nonprofit organization holding a retail malt beverage license, such
organization may be issued a distilled spirits and wine special temporary
license or a special temporary wine license to sell distilled spirits and wine
by the drink on the licensed premises, in conjunction with any public or
private event, for a specified and limited time, not to exceed 10 days. A malt
beverage temporary license may be issued only as set out in KRS 243.290 and is
subject to all conditions and regulations provided at the issuance of the
license.
   (D)   Private club license. A special private club license may be issued
only as authorized in KRS 243.270 to a nonprofit social, fraternal, military,
or political organization or club, which for more than 1 year prior to the date
of application has maintained and operated a club room or rooms from which the
general public is excluded. The privileges of the license shall be exercised
only on premises where the general public is excluded.
   (E)   A nonprofit organization holding an NQ4 retail malt beverage drink
license may be issued a special temporary license to sell distilled spirits and
wine by the drink on the licensed premises for a specified and limited time,
not to exceed 10 days. The temporary license may be issued in conjunction with
any public or private event, including but not limited to weddings, receptions,
reunions, or similar occasions.
   (F)   Special license required for Sunday sales. No licensee shall offer
alcoholic beverages for sale at any time between 12:00 midnight on Sunday and
6:00 a.m. on Monday unless the licensee shall have obtained a special license
for Sunday sales.
   (G)   All restrictions and prohibitions applying to regular retail drink
distilled spirits and wine licenses and retail malt beverage licenses shall
apply to the special licenses, unless otherwise provided by law.
(Ord. 6, passed 5-11-54; amend. Ord. 13-05, passed 10-22-13) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.14 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   The unexpired term of the license of any retail dealer in malt beverages may
be transferred with the assent and permission of the City Alcoholic Beverage
Control Administrator which permission shall be endorsed upon the license. A
payment of $10 shall be made by the applicant to the city.
(Ord. 6, passed 5-11-54; amend. Ord. 13-05, passed 10-22-13)
§ 111.15 CONDITIONS FOR GRANT OF LICENSES.
   All licenses granted under this chapter shall be granted subject to the
following conditions, and all other conditions of other applicable ordinances
and regulations of the City.
   (A)   Every applicant procuring a license consents to the entry by the Chief
of Police, the Mayor, or Alcoholic Beverage Control (ABC) Administrator or any
city Police Officer at all reasonable hours for the purpose of inspection and
search and consents to the removal from the premises of all things and articles
which are had in violation of the ordinances of the city and state or federal
law and consents to the introduction of these things and articles in any
hearing or prosecution that may be brought for the offense.
   (B)   A retail licensee, a patron, or the licensee's agents, servants, or
employees shall not cause, suffer, or permit the licensed premises to be
disorderly.
   (C)   Acts which constitute disorderly premises consist of causing,
suffering, or permitting patrons, the licensee, or the licensee's servants,
agents, or employees to cause public inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm, or
create a risk through:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting or in violent, tumultuous, or threatening
behavior;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise;
      (3)   Refusing to obey an official order to disperse issued to maintain
public safety in dangerous proximity to a tire, hazard, or other emergency;
      (4)   Creating a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any act
that serves no legitimate purpose;
      (5)   Creating a public nuisance which is further defined by KRS 241.010
(53);
      (6)   Engaging in criminal activity that would constitute a capital
offense, felony, or misdemeanor; or
      (7)   Failing to maintain the minimum health, fire, safety, or sanitary
standards established by the state or local government, or by state
administrative regulations for the licensed premises.
(Ord. 6, passed 5-11-54; amend. Ord. 2, passed 2-14-78; amend. Ord. 93-09,
passed 11-27-93; amend. Ord. 04-05, passed 10-12-04; amend. Ord. 13-05, passed
10-22-13; Am. Ord. 16-06, passed 7-26-16) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.16 (RESERVED).
§ 111.17 MONEY RECEIVED GOES TO GENERAL FUND.
   All money received by the City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
shall be deposited to the general fund of the city.
(Ord. 6, passed 5-11-54; amend. Ord. 13-05, passed 10-22-13)
§ 111.18 EFFECT OF DELINQUENT TAXES.
   No license to sell distilled spirits shall be granted to any person, firm,
or corporation who or which is delinquent in payment of any taxes or license
fees due the city at the time of issuing the license. No license shall be
granted to sell upon any premises or property, owned and occupied, or rented
and occupied by the licensee, upon which there are any delinquent taxes due the
city.
(Ord. 6, passed 5-11-54; amend. Ord. 13-05, passed 10-22-13)
§ 111.19 LOST OR DESTROYED LICENSES.
   When a license is lost or destroyed without fault on the part of the holder
of the license or his or her agent or employee a duplicate in lieu of the
original license shall be issued by the City Alcoholic Beverage Control
Administrator after the Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator is satisfied
as to the facts. The person applying for the duplicate license shall pay a fee
of $10 for the duplicate.
(Ord. 6, passed 5-11-54; amend. Ord. 13-05, passed 10-22-13)
§ 111.20 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or any supplementary or
amendatory ordinance, by a duly authorized agent or employee of a licensee
shall constitute a violation by the licensee. Whenever any licensee violates
any provisions of any statute or ordinance relating to alcoholic control, a
proceeding for the revocation of the licenses may be instituted in the manner
and under the procedure established by state law and the city council is
empowered to revoke or suspend any license issued under this chapter upon the
conviction of the licensee of any violation of this chapter, or any law, rule,
or regulation set out in KRS Chapter 243.
(Ord. 6, passed 5-11-54; amend. Ord. 13-05, passed 10-22-13)
§ 111.21 ADOPTING OF STATE LAW.
   The provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Law KRS Chapter 243, are
adopted as far as applicable as a portion of this chapter, except as otherwise
lawfully provided.
(Ord. 6, passed 5-11-54; Am. Ord. 13-05, passed 10-22-13)
§ 111.22 LICENSE FEES IN ADDITION TO OTHER TAXES.
   All license fees herein provided are in addition to ad valorem taxes and all
other taxes provided for by law or by ordinance.
(Ord. 6, passed 5-11-54; Am. Ord. 13-05, passed 10-22-13)
§ 111.23 LICENSING AND SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   No person shall do any act authorized by any kind of license with
respect to the manufacture, storage, sale purchase, transporting, or other
traffic in alcoholic beverages in the city unless he/she/it holds the kind of
license that authorizes such act issued by the City Alcoholic Beverage Control
(ABC) Administrator or in his or her unavailability, the designee of the Mayor.
Only those licenses set out in this section shall be issued by the city, the
fees for which shall be as set forth herein, and subject to the limitations set
out in KRS 243.070.
   (B)   Distilled spirit licenses as set forth in KRS 243.030 and KRS 243.070:
      (1)   Distiller's license, per annum                              $500
      (2)   Rectifier's license, per annum                              $1,500
      (3)   Wholesaler's distilled spirits and wine license, per
annum                  $1,500
      (4)   Quota retail package license, per
annum                        $1,100
   (C)   Quota retail drink license per
annum                              $1,000
   (D)   Special temporary license, per event                              $175
   (E)   Nonquota type 1 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits,
wine, and malt beverages), per annum    $1,200
   (F)   Nonquota type 2 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits,
wine, and malt beverages), per annum    $1,200
   (G)   Nonquota type 3 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits,
wine, and malt beverages), per annum   $300
   (H)   Distilled spirits and wine special temporary auction license, per
event               $200
   (I)   Special Sunday retail license, per
annum                           $250
   (J)   Special hours supplemental license, per
annum                        $100
   (K)   Caterer's license, per annum                                 $800
   (L)   Bottling house or bottling house storage license, per
annum                     $1,000
   (M)   Malt beverage licenses as follows:
      (1)   Brewer's license, per annum                              $500
      (2)   Microbrewery license, per annum                           $500
      (3)   Malt beverage distributor's license, per
annum                     $200
      (4)   Nonquota retail malt beverage package license, per
annum                  $200
      (5)   Nonquota type 4 retail malt beverage drink license, per
annum               $200
      (6)   Malt beverage brew-on-premises license, per
annum                     $100
   (N)   Limited restaurant license (includes distilled spirits, wine, and malt
beverages, per annum         $1,200
   (O)   Limited golf course license (includes distilled spirits, wine, and
malt beverages), per annum      $1,200
   (P)   The fee for the following license types may not be increased by more
than 5% above the January 1, 2013, fee for the current license or the former
license type listed beside it during any 5-year period. The fees for the
licenses described in this subsection are still subject to the maximum amounts
listed for those licenses in subsections (2) to (15) of this section:
      (1)   Quota retail package license: retail package liquor licenses;
      (2)   Quota retail drink license: retail drink license;
      (3)   Nonquota type 1 retail drink license: convention center or
convention hotel complex license;
      (4)   Nonquota type 2 retail drink license: restaurant drink licenses;
      (5)   Nonquota retail malt beverage package license: retail malt beverage
license;
      (6)   Nonquota type 4 retail malt beverage drink license: retail malt
beverage license;
      (7)   Limited restaurant; and
      (8)   Limited golf course license.
   (Q)   The fee for each of the first 5 supplemental bar licenses shall be the
same as the fee for the primary drink license. There shall be no charge for
each supplemental license issued in excess of 5 to the same licensee at the
same premises.
   (R)   The holder of a nonquota retail malt beverage package license may
obtain a nonquota type 4 malt beverage drink license for a fee of $50. The
holder of a nonquota type 4 malt beverage drink license may obtain a nonquota
retail malt beverage package license for a fee of $50.
(Ord. 7, passed 4-14-81; amend. Ord. 93-09, passed 11-27-93; amend. Ord. 13-05,
passed 10-22-13; Am. Ord. 16-06, passed 7-26-16) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.24 SUNDAY SALES.
   (A)   In addition to those licenses authorized by §
111.23, the Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator shall issue a special
Sunday retail license to any person who holds a license to sell at retail,
liquor and wine and who otherwise qualifies for such a license in accordance
with the provisions of KRS Chapter 243, as amended, on payment in advance to
the Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator.
   (B)   Sales of alcoholic beverages on Sunday pursuant to the license granted
under division (A) hereof shall permit the sale of distilled spirits and wine
by hotels, motels, and restaurants which are licensed for the retail sale of
distilled spirits and wine by the drink and which have dining facilities with a
minimum seating capacity of 100 people at tables and which receive at least 50%
or more of their gross annual income from their dining facilities by the sale
of food in accordance with KRS 244.290.
(Ord. 6, passed 7-27-82; amend. Ord. 93-09, passed 11-27-93; amend. Ord. 13-05,
passed 10-22-13; Am. Ord. 16-06, passed 7-26-16) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.25 SPECIAL HOURS LICENSE.
   (A)   The City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator may issue a special
hours license to any person, firm, or corporation holding a license to sell
distilled spirits and wine at retail upon payment in advance to the city as
prescribed in §
111.23.
   (B)   The City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator may issue a special
hours license to any person, firm, or corporation holding a license to sell
malt beverages at retail upon the payment in advance to the city of the sum of
$50.
(Ord. 3-1984, passed 2-14-84; amend. Ord. 93-09, passed 11-27-93; amend. Ord.
13-05, passed 10-22-13)
SALE TO MINORS
§ 111.30 MINOR NOT TO ENTER PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor who is between 18 and 21 years of age to
enter any premises licensed for the sale of alcoholic beverages for the purpose
of purchasing or having served or delivered to him or her any alcoholic
beverages.
(Ord. 3, passed 1-22-57; amend. Ord. 13-05, passed 10-22-13) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.31 MINOR NOT TO PURCHASE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   It shall be unlawful for a minor who is between 18 and 21 years of age to
purchase or attempt to purchase or have another purchase for him or her any
alcoholic beverages at any premises licensed for the sale of alcoholic
beverages.
(Ord. 3, passed 1-22-57; amend. Ord. 13-05, passed 10-22-13) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.32 MINOR MISREPRESENTING AGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor who is between 18 and 21 years of age to
misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of inducing any retail licensee, or
any employee of any retail licensee, to sell or serve any alcoholic beverages
to him or her.
(Ord. 3, passed 1-22-57; amend. Ord. 13-05, passed 10-22-13) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.33 PARENT OR GUARDIAN NOT TO ALLOW VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian intentionally to permit any
child who is between 18 and 21 years of age, of whom he or she may be the
parent or guardian, to violate any provision or provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 3, passed 1-22-57; amend. Ord. 13-05, passed 10-22-13) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.34 STATE LAW UNAFFECTED.
   Nothing in this chapter shall excuse or relieve the owner, proprietor,
employee, or person in charge of any licensed premises in the city where
alcoholic beverages are sold, from the restrictions, requirements and penalties
of any other ordinance or ordinances of the city or of state law relating to
violations pertaining to alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 3, passed 1-22-57; amend. Ord. 13-05, passed 10-22-13) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.35 WARNING TO BE DISPLAYED.
   It shall be the duty of every retail licensee to display at all times in a
prominent place a printed card which shall read substantially as follows:
"WARNING TO MINORS: You are subject to a fine up to $200 under the ordinances
of the City of St. Matthews, if you purchase alcoholic beverages or
misrepresent your age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic
beverages."
(Ord. 3, passed 1-22-57; amend. Ord. 13-05, passed 10-22-13) Penalty, see §
111.99
HOURS OF OPERATION
§ 111.40 HOURS OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Spirits; hours of sale.
      (1)   Retail package distilled spirits and wine. The lawful operating
hours for a license to sell, permit to be sold, or deliver distilled spirits or
wine are as follows:
         (a) Monday through Saturday between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 2:00
a.m. the following day; and
         (b)   Between the hours of 1:00 p.m. and 11:59 p.m. on Sunday, if the
licensee obtains a special Sunday retail license; and
         (c)   Between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 4:00 a.m. Tuesday through
Sunday if the licensee obtains a special hours license.
      (2)   Retail drink distilled spirits and wine. The lawful operating hours
for a licensee te sell, serve, or permit the consumption of distilled spirits
or wine are as follows:
         (a)   Monday through Saturday between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 2:00
a.m. the following day; and
         (b)   Between the hours of 1:00 p.m. and 11:59 p.m. on Sunday, if the
licensee obtains a special Sunday retail license. The licensee can also be
eligible to begin Sunday sales at 10:00 a.m., but only if the licensee
additionally obtains a special hour license; and
         (c)   Between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 4:00 a.m. Tuesday through
Sunday if the licensee obtains a special hours license.
   (B)   Beer; hours of sale.
      (1)   Retail malt beverage package. The lawful operating hours for a
licensee to sell, permit to be sold, or deliver malt beverages are as follows:
         (a)   Monday through Saturday between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 2:00
a.m. the following day; and
         (b)   Between the hours of 1:00 p.m. and 11:59 p.m. on Sunday, if the
licensee obtains a special Sunday retail license; and
         (c)   Between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 4:00 a.m. Tuesday through
Sunday if the licensee obtains a special hours license.
      (2)   Retail malt beverage drink. The lawful operating hours for a
licensee to sell, serve or permit the consumption of malt beverages are as
follows:
         (a)   Monday through Saturday between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 2:00
a.m. the following day; and
         (b)   Between the hours of 1:00 p.m. and 11:59 p.m. on Sunday, if the
licensee obtains a special Sunday retail license. The licensee can also be
eligible to begin Sunday sales at 10:00 a.m., but only if the licensee
additionally obtains a special hours license; and
         (c)   Between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 4:00 a.m. Tuesday through
Sunday if the licensee obtains a special hours license.
(Ord. 24, passed 10-14-75; amend. Ord. 3-1984, passed 2-14-84; amend. Ord. 05-
03, passed 8-23-05; amend. Ord. 13-05, passed 10-22-13; Am. Ord. 16-06, passed
7-26-16) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.41 (RESERVED).
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be a criminal offense for any person, firm, or corporation to
engage in the trafficking in alcoholic beverages as that term is defined in KRS
Chapter 243, without first paying to the city the license taxes required by §§
111.01 through
111.22 and
111.24, and without first obtaining the license required by these sections. A
violator shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   For a violation of any of the provisions enacted by reference,
penalties shall be the same as provided by KRS Chapter 243.
      (2)   If any person, firm, or corporation shall sell alcoholic liquor or
beverages within the city limits without first procuring the necessary
licenses, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than $10 nor more than $100 and costs, or in lieu of such fine be
imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 6 months. Each sale without a
license shall constitute a separate offense. In case of punishment by fine,
unless the costs and fine be paid forthwith, the person convicted under these
sections shall be committed to the county jail until the fines and costs shall
be paid or until the fines and costs have been discharged by due course of law.
In case of a second or subsequent conviction during any license year, the
punishment shall be both fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   Any person who shall be adjudged guilty of the violation of §§
111.30 through
111.35, shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not less than $10 or
more than $200 for each and every offense.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates the provisions of §
111.41 shall, upon conviction, be subjected to the penalties prescribed by KRS
Chapter 243 and 244.
   (D)   Any person who, by himself or herself or acting through another,
directly or indirectly, violates any of the provisions of §
111.23 for which no other penalty is provided, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall, for the first offense, be fined not less than $100 nor more than
$200, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 6 months, or both;
and for the second and each subsequent violation, he or she shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $200 nor more than $500, or be
imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 6 months, or both. Each sale in
violation of §
111.23 shall constitute a separate offense. Penalties provided for herein shall
be in addition to the revocation or suspension of the offender's license.
   (E)   Any person violating any provision of §
111.40 shall, for the first offense, be fined not less than $100 nor more than
$200, or be imprisoned not more than 6 months, or both; and for the second and
each subsequent violation, shall be fined not less than $200 nor more than
$500, or be imprisoned not more than 6 months, or both.
   (F)   Each day upon which a violation of the requirements of this chapter
occurs or exists shall be deemed a separate offense for which a separate fine
or penalty may be imposed.
(Ord. 7, passed 4-14-81; amend. Ord. 3-1984, passed 2-14-84; amend. Ord. 13-05,
passed 10-22-13)
CHAPTER 112: MISCELLANEOUS
Section
Sunday Activity
   
112.01   Declaration of policy on Sunday closing
   
112.02   Closing hours
   
112.03   Other laws not affected
 
   
112.99   Penalty
SUNDAY ACTIVITY
§ 112.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY ON SUNDAY CLOSING.
   It is the policy of the city to allow freedom of choice as to activities on
Sunday to the maximum extent permissible under state law realizing that the
conditions enumerated in the statutes on these activities so allowed will
protect the rights of employees of businesses operating on Sundays and will
insure a reasonable level and desirable atmosphere of peace and tranquility on
Sundays.
(Ord. 8, passed 6-13-72)
§ 112.02 CLOSING HOURS.
   Any person may work on Sunday at his own or at any other occupation, or may
employ any person, in work or business, whether for profit or amusement.
However, no person engaged in a retail business under the provisions of this
chapter, and not exempt under state law, shall be open to the public between
the hours of 6:00 a.m. and noon on any Sunday.
(Ord. 8, passed 6-13-72)
Penalty, see § 112.99 (A)
§ 112.03 OTHER LAWS NOT AFFECTED.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to permit or allow any
activities prohibited by the provisions of any state statute or other ordinance
of the city.
(Ord. 8, passed 6-13-72)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating §
112.02 shall be guilty of a violation and shall be punishable by a fine of not
less than $10 nor more than $100.
(Ord. 8, passed 6-13-72)
CHAPTER 113: COMMUNITY ANTENNA CABLE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Franchise term
   
113.03   Significance of franchise
   
113.04   Partial listing of rights reserved to the city
   
113.05   Application for a franchise
   
113.06   Acceptance and effective date of franchise
   
113.07   Indemnity
   
113.08   Bonds and insurance
   
113.09   Franchise consideration
   
113.10   Franchise territory
   
113.11   Time schedule after franchise is granted
   
113.12   Installation and extension of service
   
113.13   Service to customers
   
113.14   System design
   
113.15   Privacy
   
113.16   Interconnection
   
113.17   Emergencies
   
113.18   Rates
   
113.19   Police powers
   
113.20   Abandonment
   
113.21   Conditions of street occupancy
   
113.22   Arrangements by franchisee with others
   
113.23   Review, renewal, termination, and cancellation
   
113.24   Revocation of franchise
   
113.25   Foreclosure - receivership
   
113.26   Books and records of the franchisee
   
113.27   New development
   
113.28   Time of essence
   
113.29   Franchisee not to contest validity
   
113.30   Violations
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ANNUAL GROSS RECEIPTS." Any and all compensation, revenue, and other
consideration, derived directly or indirectly, in any form whatever, by a
franchisee, its affiliates, subsidiaries, parents, from, or in connection with,
the operation of a cable communications system in the city.
   "APPLICANT." Natural person, partnership, domestic or foreign corporation,
association, joint venture, or organization of any kind which applies for a
franchise to be granted under this chapter.
   "CABLE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM." Any facility that, in whole or in part,
receives directly or indirectly, and amplifies or otherwise modifies signals
which transmit nonbroadcast services, and programming broadcast or furnished by
one or more television or radio stations or similar facility and distributes
such signals by wire or cable to subscribing members of the public who pay for
such service. Such definition shall not include any similar facility that
serves only the residents of one or more apartment or condominium dwelling
under common ownership, control or management, or otherwise, and commercial
establishments located on the premises of such an apartment house or
condominium dwelling.
   "CATV." A community antenna cable communications system, composed of,
without limitation, antenna, cables, wires, lines, towers, wave guides, laser
beams, or any other conductors, converters, equipment or facilities, designed,
constructed, or wired for the purpose of producing, receiving, amplifying, and
distributing coaxial cable audio and visual radio, television, electronics, or
electrical signals to and from persons, subscribers, and locations in St.
Matthews, Kentucky.
   "CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE." That approval required by the FCC in order for
a franchisee to begin operation with St. Matthews, Kentucky.
   "CONVERTER." An interface device which may be furnished to subscribers in
order that nonstandard television channels carried on the cable communications
system may be received on a conventional home television receiver, or to
prevent interference from strong broadcast signals.
   "FAIR MARKET VALUE." The price that a willing buyer under no compulsion to
buy would pay to a willing seller under no compulsion to sell.
   "FCC." The Federal Communications Commission as that agency is presently
constituted by the Communications Act of 1934 as amended, or any successor
agency.
   "FRANCHISE." The nonexclusive rights granted hereunder to construct and
operate a cable communications system along the streets, alleys, and public
ways in the city.
   "FRANCHISEE." The natural person, partnership, domestic or foreign
corporation, association, joint venture, or organization of any kind, and the
lawful successor, transferee, or assignee of same, granted a franchise by the
City Council under this chapter.
   "SERVICE." All communications, maintenance, repair, and installation
services provided by the franchisee, including the delivery of broadcast
signals and programming covered by the regular monthly charge paid by all
subscribers, including such standard type of service that is normally furnished
by CATV franchisees for a regular monthly charge and such additional
communications services as are furnished as a part of the cable communications
system in the way of two-way, return-path services.
   "STATE." The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   "STREET." The surface of, and the space above and below, any public street,
highway, freeway, bridge, land path, alley, court, boulevard, sidewalk,
parkway, way, lane, public way, drive, or other public right-of-way including
public utility easements or right-of-way and any temporary or permanent
fixtures or improvements located thereon now or hereafter held by the city
which shall entitle the city and the franchisee to the use thereof for the
purpose of installing, operating, repairing, and maintaining the franchisee's
cable communications system. This word shall also mean any easement now or
hereafter held by the city for the purpose of public travel and shall include
other easements or rights-of-way as shall be now held or hereafter held by the
city, which shall within their proper use and meaning entitle the city and the
franchisee to the use thereof for the purposes of installing or transmitting
cable communications transmissions over poles, wires, cables, conductors,
ducts, conduits, vaults, manholes, amplifiers, compliances, attachments, and
other property as may be ordinarily necessary and pertinent to a cable
communications system.
   "SUBSCRIBER." Any person who contracts the purchase, orally or in writing,
of any service as may be provided by a franchisee's cable communications
system.
   "SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION." That point at which sufficient distribution
facilities have been installed by the franchisee so as to provide service to at
least 90% of the dwelling units in the franchise territory as described in §
113.10 of this chapter.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-12-79)
§ 113.02 FRANCHISE TERM.
   The City Council creates the right, privilege, and franchise to construct,
operate, and maintain a community antenna television system in the streets of
the city, subject to the conditions and restrictions as hereinafter provided;
and that right, privilege, and franchise shall be offered to potential
applicants and granted by the City Council to the applicant presenting the best
legal, character, financial, technical, and other qualifications, and whose
construction plans and arrangements can be shown to be both feasible and
adequate to meet the minimum requirements established. The franchise shall run
for a period of 15 years commencing on the date the franchise is awarded at the
end of which time it may be renewed subject to the approval of the City Council
and the provisions of the constitution and the statutes of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky governing term and sale of franchises then in force and effect.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-12-79)
§ 113.03 SIGNIFICANCE OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Any franchise granted hereafter by the city shall not be exclusive and
the city reserves the right to grant a similar franchise to any other persons
or entities at any time.
   (B)   No privilege or exemption shall be inferred from the granting of any
franchise unless it is specifically prescribed.
   (C)   Any franchise granted hereunder shall give to the franchisee the right
and privilege to construct, erect, operate, modify and maintain in, on, along,
above, over and under the streets, alleys, and public places of the
incorporated areas of the city such towers, antennae, cables, electronic
equipment, and other network appurtenances necessary for the operation of a
cable communications system in the city; provided, however, that the exercise
of such right and privilege shall not interfere with the use of such streets,
alleys, and public places by the city and such others as are permitted by the
city to use same, and the City Council may demand the removal of the foregoing
as have been constructed by or under contract with a franchisee at such time as
the City Council determines that same are interfering with the use of said
streets, alleys, or public places.
   (D)   Any franchise granted shall be a privilege to be held for the benefit
of the public.
   (E)   Prior approval of the City Council shall be required and obtained
where ownership or control of more than 25% of the right of control of any
franchise is acquired, disposed of, or transferred by a person or group of
persons acting in concert. Approval of the City Council to such a transfer of
interest shall not be unreasonably withheld. Transfer from a subsidiary to a
parent corporation, or vice versa, shall not be considered as a change of
control.
   (F)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prohibit the mortgage or
the pledge of the network or any part thereof or a leasing by a franchisee from
another person of that network or part thereof for financing purposes or
otherwise. However, any such mortgage, pledge, or lease shall be subject to the
rights of the City Council under this chapter, a franchise granted hereunder,
and all other applicable laws.
   (G)   Any franchise granted shall not relieve the franchisee of its
obligation to obtain necessary pole or conduit use agreements as are necessary.
   (H)   The award of any franchise shall not impart to the franchisee any
right of ownership of streets or city-owned property.
   (I)   Any franchise granted shall be binding upon the franchisee, its
successors, lessees, or assignees.
   (J)   A franchisee, at its expense, shall comply with all applicable laws,
orders, ordinances, and regulations of federal, state, city and county or
municipal authorities including those established to protect historic districts
and designated landmark sites.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-12-79)
§ 113.04 PARTIAL LISTING OF RIGHTS RESERVED TO THE CITY.
   (A)   The city reserves such rights and powers which under applicable
federal or state law or regulations, the city must reserve and maintain.
Franchisee agrees to comply with any action or requirements of the city in the
exercise of such rights and powers which either have been or shall subsequent
to the grant of this franchise be enacted or established.
   (B)   The city may designate and transfer its obligations and duties under
the franchise to any elected official, officer, emloyee, department, agent,
board or commission of the city and a franchisee shall recognize the authority
of any such transferee.
   (C)   The city may inspect all construction or installation work performed
pursuant to the franchise grant under this chapter.
   (D)   Neither the granting of any franchise nor any provisions shall
constitute a waiver or bar to the exercise of any governmental right or power
of the city.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-12-79)
§ 113.05 APPLICATION FOR A FRANCHISE.
   Applications for an original franchise grant hereunder shall be filed with
the City Clerk, and shall contain the following written information and
provisions:
   (A)   Bid bond. Applications shall be submitted with the bid bond as
required by the requirements of §
113.08 of this chapter.
   (B)   Name and address of applicant. The name and business address of the
applicant, date of application, and signature of applicant or appropriate
corporate officer.
   (C)   Description of proposed operation. A general description of the
applicant's proposed operation, including, but not limited to: business hours,
operating staff, maintenance procedures, management and marketing staff
complement and procedures, rules of operation for public access, a statement of
services to be provided, and a description of the system design as required by
§
113.14(B).
   (D)   Special services. A statement setting forth a description of any
automated services proposed as well as a description of the production
facilities to be made available by the franchisee for public, municipal, and
educational access channels.
   (E)   Programming assistance. A statement explaining any assistance, in
terms of personnel, equipment, or capacity, to be designated for the
programming or programming assistance for the public, educational, and
governmental access channels.
   (F)   Rates. A statement of the applicant's proposed rates in conformity
with this chapter.
   (G)   Applicant organization.
      (1)   If the applicant is an individual, partnership, or unincorporated
association, it shall state the names and addresses of all persons including
corporations having a proprietary or equitable interest in and to the
applicant's business operation, and in and to the prospective franchise if
awarded. The term "EQUITABLE INTEREST" shall include all assignments of any
right or privilege under the prospective franchise, and shall also include any
benefit, payment, or emolument resulting from the grant of a franchise under
this chapter.
      (2)   If the applicant is a nonpublic corporation, the application shall
state, additionally, the names and addresses of the officers, directors, and
shareholders of the corporation, together with the number of shares held by
each shareholder.
      (3)   If the applicant is a publicly held corporation, as defined by the
rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the statement
shall contain the states in which incorporated and qualified to do business,
the names and addresses of the officers and directors of the corporation, the
names and addresses and number of shares owned of all stockholders both nominal
and beneficial, owning 3% or more of the outstanding stock of the applicant.
      (4)   A full disclosure of the ownership of the facilities to be used in
rendering the service.
   (H)   Intracompany relationships. A statement describing all intracompany
relationships of the applicant, including parent, subsidiary, or affiliated
companies.
   (I)   Agreements and understandings. A statement setting forth all
agreements and understandings, whether written or oral, existing between the
applicant and any other person, firm, group, or corporation with respect to any
franchise awarded and the conduct of the operation existing at the time the
application is made.
   (J)   Financial statements. Audited financial statements for the applicant's
two latest fiscal years unless applicant has not been in existence for at least
two years, in which case applicant shall furnish audited financial statements
for such lesser period of time covering the period that the applicant has been
in existence. If the applicant is a partnership, audited financial statements
shall include copies of the federal partnership income tax return for its
latest two fiscal years or such lesser period of time that partnership has been
in existence.
   (K)   Financial support. Suitable written evidence from a recognized
financing institution addressed both to the applicant and to the City Council
advising that the applicant's planned operation has been analyzed by the
institution and that the financing institution is prepared to make the required
funds available to applicant if it is awarded a franchise. If the planned
operation is to be internally financed, a corporate board resolution or
statement from a qualified officer of the applicant shall be supplied
authorizing the obtainment and expenditure of such funds as are required to
construct, install, and operate the cable communications system contemplated
hereunder.
   (L)   Technical description. A technical description of the type of network
proposed by the applicant, including, but not limited to, network
configuration, such as a hub, network capacity, two-way operation capability
and service to be provided, and a description of the studio or studios, studio
equipment, planned hours of operation and hours of availability, if any, that
same will be made available to governmental, public, and educational
institutions or agencies.
   (M)   Engineering statement. A statement from the applicant's senior
technical staff member, or consultant, advising that he has reviewed this
chapter and that the applicant's planned network and operations thereof will
meet all the requirements set forth herein.
   (N)   Existing franchises. A statement of existing franchises held by the
applicant indicating,with particularity, when the franchises were issued and
when the systems were constructed together with the name, address, and phone
number of a responsible governmental official knowledgeable of the applicant in
each such franchise area.
   (O)   Convictions. A statement as to whether the applicant or any of its
officers or directors or holders of 3% or more of its voting stock or bonded
indebtedness has in the past ten years been convicted of any crime which in any
way is related to the operation and performance of a cable communications
system or in any way relates to the applicant's ability or competency to
perform its obligations under this chapter.
   (P)   Operating experience. A statement detailing the prior CATV experience
of the applicant including that of the applicant's officers, management, and
staff to be associated with the proposed operation.
   (Q)   Franchise renewal information. If an application is for renewal of a
franchise, the proposal must include, in addition to the information required
in divisions (A) through (Q) above:
      (1)   A summary of the technical, financial, and programming history of
the network since the granting of the original franchise.
      (2)   A statement and timetable that outlines all proposed changes,
expansion, or improvements in the network as to services, programming or
technical specifications during the forthcoming 15-year period.
   (R)   Additional requirements. Ten copies of the application shall be filed.
Supplementary, additional, or other information that the applicant deems
reasonable for consideration may be submitted at the same time as an
application, but must be separately bound and submitted in the above number of
copies. The city may, at its discretion, consider such additional information
as part of the application.
   (S)   Supplementation to applications. The City Council reserves the right
to require such supplementary, additional, or other information that it deems
reasonably necessary for its determinations.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-12-79)
§ 113.06 ACCEPTANCE AND EFFECTIVE DATE OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Any franchise granted hereunder, together with the rights, privileges,
and authority granted thereby, shall take effect and be in force from and after
the effective date of an ordinance awarding a franchise hereunder, provided
that on or before that date the franchisee shall:
      (1)   File with the city an unconditional acceptance of the franchise
grant and enter into and execute such contracts and documents as required by
the City Council consistent with the terms and provisions of this chapter and
such other terms and provisions as were negotiated by the franchisee and the
City Council consistent with the application of the franchisee.
      (2)   File certificate of insurance as set forth in §
113.08 herein.
      (3)   File such bond or bonds as required in §
113.08 herein.
      (4)   Reimburse the city for the costs of publication of this chapter and
the ordinance awarding the franchise.
      (5)   Advise the City Council in writing of the franchisee's location and
its address for mail and official notifications from the City Council.
   (B)   In the event the franchisee fails to comply in full with division (A)
above, then it shall be conclusively considered that the franchisee has
abandoned its application and rights to such grant and award of the franchise,
and any such rights that the franchisee may have acquired under the chapter
shall be immediately terminate, and the franchisee shall have no right,
privilege or authority whatsoever under this chapter.
   (C)   The franchisee shall have no recourse whatsoever against the city for
or on account of any loss, cost, expense, or damage arising out of any
provisions or requirements of this chapter and the ordinance awarding the
franchise or any amendments or rules or regulations.
   (D)   The franchisee, by acceptance of any franchise awarded, acknowledges
that it has relied upon its own investigation and understanding of the power
and authority of the City Council to grant such a franchise.
   (E)   The franchisee, by acceptance of any franchise awarded, acknowledges
that it has thoroughly examined and is familiar with the terms and conditions
of this chapter, the ordinance awarding the franchise, and such other contracts
and documents entered into by the franchisee relative to the franchise.
   (F)   The franchisee, by acceptance of any franchise awarded, acknowledges
and agrees that the matters contained in the franchisee's application for
franchise or supplements thereto, shall be incorporated into the ordinance
awarding the franchise as though set out verbatim and shall be considered an
integral part of such chapter in all communications, correspondence, filings,
or applications with all appropriate regulatory agencies, including the FCC.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-12-79)
§ 113.07 INDEMNITY.
   Grantee shall at its sole cost and expense fully indemnify, defend, and save
harmless the city, its officers, boards, commissions, and employees against any
and all claims, suits, actions, liability, and judgments for damage arising out
of the operation of the CATV franchise, except that the grantee shall not be
required to indemnify the city, its officers, boards, commissions, employees,
for acts or claims arising from their own negligence or intentional acts. The
damages or penalties to be indemnified shall include, but not be limited to,
damages arising out of copyright infringement and all other damages arising out
of the installation, operation, or maintenance of the CATV system authorized
herein, whether or not such acts or omissions complained of are authorized,
allowed, or prohibited by the franchise.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-12-79)
§ 113.08 BONDS AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   All persons submitting an application for a franchise in accordance
herewith shall file with their application bonds solely for the protection of
the city with surety or sureties as follows:
      (1)   A bid bond in the amount of $25,000 which shall indemnify the city
up to the full amount of the bond for any damages or losses arising out of the
failure of the franchisee to execute an agreement in the form proposed under
this chapter.
      (2)   A construction bond in the amount of $50,000 to be effective from
the date of execution of the franchise agreement and the effective date of the
ordinance awarding the franchise hereunder, and thereafter until the cable
communications system is certified completed by an independent electrical
engineer to be employed by the city for such purpose. The bond required under
this section shall indemnify the city in its own right up to the full amount of
the bond from any damages or losses arising out of the failure of the
franchisee to faithfully perform and satisfactorily complete construction of
the cable communication system in accordance with this chapter and any
agreement or ordinance in connection with, including, but not limited to, the
cost of removal of any construction.
      (3)   All persons submitting an application for a franchise shall file
with their application a bond with a corporate surety in the amount of $25,000
to be effective upon the execution of the franchise agreement and the effective
date of the ordinance awarding the franchise hereunder, and conditioned that in
the event that the franchise fails to comply with any provision of this chapter
or agreement or ordinance awarding a franchise in accordance herewith, then
there shall be recovered jointly and severally from the principals and surety
any and all damages or costs suffered or incurred by the city or any subscriber
as a result thereof, including, but not limited to, costs and reasonable
attorney's fees of any action or proceeding, and including the full amount of
any compensation, indemnification, costs of removal, or abandonment of any
property or other costs which may be in default, up to the full principal
amount of such bond; this condition shall be a continuing obligation during the
entire term of any agreement or ordinance or ordinances awarded the franchise
in accordance herewith and thereafter until the franchisee shall have satisfied
in full any and all obligations to the city which arise out of or pertain to
same.
      (4)   None of the provisions of this section nor any bond accepted by the
city pursuant thereto, nor any damages recovered by the city thereunder, shall
be construed to excuse the faithful performance by or limit the liability of
the franchisee under this chapter or any agreement or ordinance awarding a
franchise in accordance herewith or for damages either to the full amount of
the bond or otherwise.
   (B)   Within 30 days after the granting of the franchise and at all times
during the term of the franchise, grantee shall obtain and pay all premiums for
the following:
      (1)   A general comprehensive public liability insurance policy
indemnifying, defending, and saving harmless the city, its officers, boards,
commissions, agents, or employees, from any and all claims by any person
whatsoever on account of injury to or death of a person or persons occasioned
by the operations of a franchisee under the franchise granted, or alleged to
have been so caused or incurred with a minimum liability of $250,000 for bodily
in jury or death of any one person and $500,000 for bodily injuries or death to
two or more persons in any one occurrence.
      (2)   Property damage insurance indemnifying, defending, and saving
harmless the city, its officers, boards, commissions, agents, and employees
from and against all claims by any person whatsoever for property damage
occasioned by the operation of franchisee under the franchise granted, or
alleged to have been so lost or incurred with a minimum liability of $250,000
for property damage to any one person and $500,000 for property damage to two
or more persons in any one occurrence.
   (C)   Such insurance as provided for in this section shall be kept in full
force and effect by the franchisee during the existence of the franchise with
insurance companies qualified to do business in the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
The policies shall require 30 days written notice to both city and grantee
prior to any cancellation thereof, and copies of these policies shall be filed
with the city.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-12-79)
§ 113.09 FRANCHISE CONSIDERATION.
   (A)   A franchisee shall pay to the city as consideration during the life of
the franchise the sum of not less than 3% of the annual gross receipts of such
franchise. Such payment shall be in addition to any other payment owed to the
city by the franchisee and shall not be construed as payment in lieu of
personal or real property taxes levied by state, city, or county authorities. A
franchisee shall annually file with the city 45 days after the expiration of
each fiscal year a financial statement showing in detail the gross annual
receipts as defined herein of the franchisee during that fiscal year. It shall
be the duty of the franchisee to pay to the city at the time of filing this
financial statement the sums of consideration hereinabove prescribed.
   (B)   In the event the franchise should be terminated or forfeited prior to
the end of the 15-year term, the franchisee shall immediately submit to the
City Council a financial statement prepared as before required, showing the
gross receipts of the franchisee for the elapsed since the last period it paid
to the city the required percentage of gross annual receipts, and the
franchisee shall pay to the city not later than 30 days following the
termination of the franchise a like percentage of such gross receipts and any
other sums legally due and owing to the city.
   (C)   In the event that any statement and payment is not made on or before
the applicable date fixed in division (A) hereof, interest on such payments
shall apply from such date at the current prime interest rate.
   (D)   The city shall have the right to inspect a franchisee's records
showing the gross receipts from which its franchise payments are computed and
shall have the right of audit and recomputation of any and all amounts paid
under the franchise. No acceptance of any payment by the city shall be
construed as a release of or an accord or satisfaction of any claim the city
might have for further or additional sums payable under the terms of this
chapter or for any other performance or obligation of a franchisee hereunder.
   (E)   Payments of compensation made by a franchisee to the city pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter shall not be considered in the nature of a tax,
but shall be in addition to any and all taxes which are now or hereafter
required to be paid by any law of the United States, the Commonwealth of
Kentucky, or the city.
   (F)   Sales taxes or any other taxes which are collected from subscribers by
a franchisee and are to be remitted to a governmental agency shall be deducted
from the annual gross revenues.
   (G)   Should the FCC or other governmental agency cease to regulate the
amount of percentage sums payable hereunder, then in that event the City
Council and any franchisee shall have the right to immediately renegotiate the
sum and manner of calculation of franchise payments payable hereunder which
shall be conditioned on and subject to agreement on same between the city and
any franchisee.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-12-79)
§ 113.10 FRANCHISE TERRITORY.
   (A)   Any ordinance awarding a franchise to operate a cable communications
system in accordance herewith shall apply to its operation throughout all of
the incorporated areas of the city as now or may in the future exist.
   (B)    The franchisee shall endeavor to offer cable communications service
to all residents of the city. To the extent that the franchisee intends not to
provide service to any specific area, street, building, or other location, the
franchisee shall designate same and clearly indicate in its application for a
franchise the technical or economic reason for its inability to provide service
in the enumerated locations.
   (C)   The franchisee is not required under this chapter or any contract
granted to extend its facilities to any area unless there exists in that area a
potential of at least 35 subscribers per mile of trunk cable system. When the
potential of 35 subscribers per mile does not exist, the company may make a
charge at actual cost, including labor and material for cable extension, for
service in this portion of the system.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-12-79)
§ 113.11 TIME SCHEDULE AFTER FRANCHISE IS GRANTED.
   The franchisee shall adhere to the following time schedules:
   (A)   Within 60 days after the effective date of the ordinance awarding the
franchise, the franchisee shall proceed with due diligence to obtain all
necessary permits and authorizations which are required in the conduct of its
business, including, but not limited to, any utility joint use attachment
agreements, microwave carrier licenses, and any other permits, licenses and
authorizations to be granted by duly constituted regulatory agencies having
jurisdiction over the operation of CATV systems, or their associated microwave
transmission facilities.
   (B)   The company agrees to comply with all of the procedural requirements
of the FCC. The franchisee shall notify all necessary parties, including the
FCC, within 30 days following the effective date of the ordinance awarding a
franchise hereunder of its intent to operate a cable communications system and
shall begin construction within 60 days after action by the FCC, a certificate
of compliance, or operation of law, shall authorize the provision of CATV
services in the city. If for any reason the franchisee has not notified all
parties within the 30 days, then the franchise shall be considered null and
void.
   (C)   Within 12 months after the effective date of the ordinance awarding
the franchise hereunder, the franchisee shall have achieved substantial
completion of construction. However, the date to substantially complete
construction shall be extended by the number of days of delay of the franchisee
caused by strikes, lockouts, fire, unusual delay in transportation, unavoidable
casualty, or other such delay authorized by the City Council.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-12-79)
§ 113.12 INSTALLATION AND EXTENSION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The franchisee shall extend cable to new developments and subdivisions
and to other areas, including, but not limited to, blocks or streets,
simultaneously with the installation of electric power and telephone utility
facilities, provided same is contiguous to any part of the installed CATV
system. If it is not, then service shall be extended as soon as same is
contiguous to any part of the installed CATV system.
   (B)   In all cases where new developments and subdivisions are to be
constructed and to be served in whole or in part by both underground power and
telephone utilities, the owner or developer of such areas shall provide the
franchisee the trench, backfill, and all necessary substructures for cables in
order that the franchisee may install all necessary electronic cable
communications facilities. In no event shall such undergrounding be at any cost
or expense to the city.
   (C)   Failure to install cable in accordance with the construction timetable
as provided in §
113.11 hereof, or to extend cable within 90 days of a subscriber's request for
service to new developments, subdivisions, or other areas in instances
controlled by divisions (A) and (B) above hereof shall constitute a violation
of this chapter and a material breach of any agreement awarding a franchise
shall subject the franchisee to all the penalties and remedies prescribed in
this chapter as well as all other remedies, both legal and equitable, which are
available to the city.
   (D)   Cable communications service shall be made available to all individual
dwellings, residences, including apartments, condominiums, cooperative or
associate buildings, institutions, organizations, businesses, and all other
entities within the designated franchise area as the same now or in the future
may exist.
   (E)   Installation and service fees for the first television set of any
subscriber shall be uniform for all entities listed in division (D) above.
Installation or subscriber use of cable communications system service which
involves retransmission of the cable signal to multiple reception points within
a structure shall be negotiated separately by the franchisee and the owner of
the structure or the subscriber. Service to condominium buildings shall be on
such conditions as the governing body of the tenants in common may provide and
as are agreed upon by the franchisee. Neither the franchisee nor the city shall
be responsible or liable for any failure to provide cable communications
service to a lessee or condominium owner whose lessor or governing body refuses
the installation of such service. The provision of cable communications
services to any multiple dwelling structure shall not be conditioned upon the
purchase by the owner, lessor, or governing body of such structure of any
service of the franchisee or any person designated by it.
   (F)   Residential installation, including multiple drops, shall be offered
as the feeder line passes the dwelling unit.
   (G)   All of the franchisee's cable equipment shall be removed within a
reasonable time, such time not to exceed one month from a subscriber's property
at the subscriber's written request.
      (1)   Where such removal interferes with the provision of cable
communications services to another subscriber, it shall be the obligation of
the subscriber so affected to secure a legal agreement which will enable the
franchisee to provide the subscriber the cable communications service the
subscriber desires.
      (2)   Where attachment to or use of a nonsubscriber's property is
necessary for the provision of cable communications services to a subscriber,
it shall be the obligation of such subscriber to secure a legal agreement which
will enable the franchisee to provide the service the subscriber desires.
   (H)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as a representa- tion,
promise, or guarantee by the city that any permit or other authorization
required under any city law for the construction or installation of a cable
communications system shall be issued.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-12-79)
§ 113.13 SERVICE TO CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   The cable communications system shall be designed for operation 24
hours per day and shall endure service interruptions only for good cause and
for a reasonable time. Permissible interruptions of service shall be for the
shortest possible time.
   (B)   The franchisee shall maintain an office in Jefferson County which
shall be open to the general public during normal business hours.
   (C)   The franchisee shall have a publicly listed telephone number. The
franchisee shall also employ an operator or maintain a telephone answering
device 24 hours per day, each day of the year, to receive subscriber
complaints.
   (D)   The franchisee shall maintain a maintenance and repair service capable
of responding to subscriber complaints or requests for repairs within 24 hours
after the receipt of the complaint or request. If the franchisee or any of its
shareholders owning at least 3% of its stock, or any subsidiary, parent, or
affiliated corporation of the franchisee engages in the business or activity of
selling, leasing, repairing, dismantling, or installing television or radio
receivers, or accessories for such receivers, cameras, audio or video tape
machines, video tapes, microphones, control boxes, modulators, or other
equipment utilized by users or subscribers in the operation of any cable
communications system, the franchisee shall not condition cable communications
service or the continuation thereof or usage of cable communications facility
on a subscriber's purchase of or failure to purchase any of such services or
equipment.
   (E)   In the event that its service to subscribers is interrupted for 48 or
more consecutive hours, except for acts of God, riots, or a state of emergency
declared by the President of the United States, the Governor of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, or the Mayor of the city, the franchisee shall grant
affected subscribers a pro rata credit or rebate for the full duration of the
interruption. An unreasonable interruption of subscriber services shall be
deemed a violation of this chapter and a breach of any agreement awarding a
franchise in accordance herewith and subject the franchisee to all of the
penalties and remedies prescribed in the agreement as well as all other
remedies, both legal and equitable, which are available to the city.
   (F)   The franchisee shall not deny or delay service or use of cable
communications facility or otherwise discriminate against subscribers or users
on the basis of age, race, creed, color, sex, national origin, or marital
status.
   (G)   The franchisee shall maintain in constant readiness equipment capable
of providing standby powering for the headend, transportation, and trunk
amplifiers for a minimum of four hours.
      (1)   This equipment shall be constructed so as to revert automatically
to a standby mode when alternating current power returns.
      (2)   The franchisee shall comply with all utility and other safety
regulations to prevent a standby generator from powering the dead utility line
so as to prevent injury to any person.
§ 113.14 SYSTEM DESIGN.
   The franchisee shall install a first quality cable system, using equipment
designed by a major supplier of CATV equipment.
   (A)   All necessary return-path, amplifiers, and amplifier modules shall
provide maximum two-way service capability, and shall be installed at the time
of initial construction.
   (B)   The number of channels to be provided and their use shall be described
in the franchise proposal.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-12-79)
§ 113.15 PRIVACY.
   (A)   The franchisee shall strictly observe the privacy and property rights
of subscribers. The subscriber's rights of privacy shall be protected at all
times by the franchisee. Individual subscriber preferences, viewing habits,
beliefs, philosophy, creeds, religions, or political beliefs shall not be
revealed to any person, firm, agency, governmental unit, police department, or
investigating agency unless on the authority of a court of law or on prior
voluntary valid written authorization of the subscriber, which shall not in any
event be required as a condition of receiving service.
   (B)   Without the authorization described herein, neither the franchisee nor
any other person shall in any manner activate, utilize, or otherwise operate
any channel from a subscriber's location.
   (C)   Every subscriber shall have the absolute right to deactivate the
return-path from the subscriber's receiver at the franchisee's sole cost.
   (D)   The franchisee shall not tabulate any test results, nor permit the use
of its cable communications system for such tabula-tion, which would reveal the
commercial product preferences or opinions of subscribers, members of their
families or their invitees, licensees or employees.
   (E)   Violation of any provision of this section shall be considered a
material breach of this chapter and any agreement or ordinance awarding a
franchise in accordance herewith and shall subject the franchisee to all
penalties and remedies prescribed in this chapter as well as all other legal or
equitable remedies available to the city.
   (F)   Each compilation, publication, tabulation, or other dissemination of
each piece of information made or permitted to be made in violation of this
section shall be considered a separate violation of this chapter.
   (G)   A subscriber may at any time revoke any authorization previously made
by delivering to the franchisee in writing a substantial indication of his
intent to so revoke. Any such revocation shall be effective on receipt by the
franchisee.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-12-79)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.16 INTERCONNECTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed so as to prohibit the franchisee
from interconnecting its network with other similar networks either in the city
or in other municipalities, counties or states or countries. Any applicable
revenues derived therefrom shall be equitably allocated in the calculation of
annual gross subscriber revenues.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-12-79)
§ 113.17 EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   In the event of an emergency or disaster, a franchisee shall upon the
request of the Mayor, make available its facilities to the city or to the
county, state, or federal government, at no cost for emergency use during the
period of such emergency or disaster and shall provide such personnel as
necessary to properly operate the system under the circumstances.
   (B)   The franchisee shall incorporate into its facilities the capability of
an emergency override alert whereby the city, in a time of crisis, may be able
to introduce a bulletin on all channels simultaneously.
   (C)   If at any time, in case of fire or disaster in the city, it shall
become necessary, in the reasonable judgment of the Mayor of the city, to cut
or move any of the wires, cables, amplifiers, or other appurtenances to the
network of the franchisee, such cutting or moving may be done and any repairs
rendered necessary thereby shall be made by the franchisee at its sole expense,
provided that such repairs are not necessitated by a negligent act of the city,
in which case, cost for repairs shall be borne by the city.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-12-79)
§ 113.18 RATES.
   (A)   The City Council expressly reserves the right and retains its
jurisdiction to authorize, establish, and approve all rates which the
franchisee charges subscribers, including rates for subscriber service,
equipment, maintenance, and repair. By acceptance of a franchise, the
franchisee agrees that the City Council shall have such power, right, and
jurisdiction. All rates and charges shall be nondiscriminatory.
   (B)   No rate, fee, or charge of any kind shall be charged or collected from
subscribers by the franchisee without the authorization and approval of the
City Council. Violation of this section shall be deemed to be a breach of any
agreement awarding a franchise in accordance herewith and shall subject the
franchisee to all remedies and penalties prescribed in this chapter and to all
other remedies, legal and equitable, which are available to the city.
   (C)   The initial rates to be charged and collected from subscribers shall
be in conformity with the franchisee's application hereunder, and established
in the agreement awarding a franchise in accordance herewith, and shall remain
in force for a minimum of 30 months from and after the date of execution of
this agreement and the effective date of the ordinance awarding the franchise.
Provided, however, that should the City Council determine to amend any
franchise within the purview of §
113.27 hereof, the franchisee may request rate increases or decreases in
accordance with this section.
   (D)   The franchisee shall file with the City Clerk on December 31 each year
a full schedule of all subscriber and user rates and all other charges made in
connection with the operation of the cable communications system.
      (1)   Any and all special rates for institutions, motels, hotels, inns,
multiple-family dwelling units, or any other type of subscriber shall be
included.
      (2)   All rates shall be on file in the office of the City Clerk of the
city.
   (E)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the reduction
or waiving of charges in conjunction with promotional campaigns for the purpose
of attracting subscribers and users.
   (F)   The franchisee shall neither impose nor collect any addi- tional
charge for the disconnection of any installation or outlet.
   (G)   In the event that a subscriber fails to pay a properly due and owing
fee or charge, the franchisee may disconnect the subscriber's service outlet,
on giving ten days written notice thereof.
   (H)   The franchisee shall establish and conform to the following policy
regarding refunds to subscribers and users.
      (1)   If the franchisee collects a deposit or advance charge on any
service or equipment requested by a subscriber or user, the franchisee shall
provide said service or equipment within 30 days of the collection of the
deposit or charge or it shall refund said deposit or charge within five days
thereafter.
         (a)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to relieve the
franchisee of any responsibility to subscribers or users under any contractual
agreements into which it enters with them.
         (b)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting the
franchisee's liability for penalties which may be imposed under this chapter or
for the violation or breach of any of its provisions.
         (c)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the
franchisee's liability for damages because of its failure to provide the
service for which the deposit or charge was made.
      (2)   In the event that a subscriber terminates service during the first
12 months because of the failure of the franchisee to render the service in
accordance with the requirements set forth in this chapter, or in any agreement
or ordinance in accordance herewith, the franchisee shall refund to such
subscriber an amount equal to the initial applicable installation or
reconnection charge paid by the subscriber.
         (a)   In the event that such subscriber has made an advance payment
the amount so advanced shall be refunded to such subscriber by the franchisee.
         (b)   Nothing in this provision shall be construed to relieve the
franchisee of any liability established under any other provision of this
chapter or any agreement or ordinance in accordance herewith.
      (3)   In the event that a subscriber terminates service prior to the end
of a prepaid period, the pro rata portion of any prepaid subscriber fee which
represents payment for services which are no longer to be rendered, shall be
refunded promptly, but in no case more than 30 days after receipt of the
request for termination.
   (I)   The franchisee shall not charge a converter security deposit greater
than the converter's actual cost to the franchisee. Any converter security
deposit collected by the franchisee shall be returned to the subscriber 36
months after the installation of such converter or within 60 days on
termination of service by the subscriber and return of such converter
undamaged, with allowance for reasonable wear and tear, and payment of any
outstanding balance due and payable.
   (J)   A franchisee may, from time to time, subject to the limitation
contained in division (C) hereinabove, request of the City Council, rate
increases or decreases. A franchisee shall be allowed to increase its rates and
charges if it is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the City Council
that it is unable to realize a fair return on its investment, without a rate or
charge increase. The City Council shall establish the procedure for hearings
and review of any such request. The City Council may allow rate or charge
reduction at any time if it shall determine that the existing rates and charges
unreasonably restrict the growth of cable television in the city and that the
proposed rates and charges will continue to allow the franchisee a reasonable
profit. Any such request shall be made no less than 60 days in advance of the
effective date of the change or changes requested.
   (K)   A franchisee may, at any time, request of the City Council,
establishment, authorization, and approval of rates and charges for new or
additional services which the franchisee desires to offer its subscribers. Any
such request shall be made no less than 60 days in advance of the offering of
such new or additional services.
   (L)   In the event the franchisee for the city also has a CATV franchise for
the unincorporated area of Jefferson County, Kentucky, the rates for like
services in the city shall not exceed the rates charged for identical services
in the unincorporated area of Jefferson County. In the event that the Fiscal
Court of Jefferson County approves a rate increase or reduction for the same
CATV franchisee that has the city franchise, the franchisee shall within ten
days thereafter file with the City Clerk of the city a complete schedule of the
Jefferson County approved CATV rates. The City Clerk shall forthwith advise all
members of the City Council and the Mayor of the approved Jefferson County CATV
rate schedule. Unless the franchisee, a member of the City Council, or the
Mayor requests a CATV rate hearing for city rates within 60 days after the
filing of the approved Jefferson County CATV rate schedule with the City Clerk,
the approved Jefferson County CATV rate schedule shall automatically be the
approved and authorized CATV rate schedule for the city, effective 61 days
after the approved Jefferson County CATV rate schedule is filed with the City
Clerk by the franchisee.
   (M)   No charge shall be made to the city for its use of channels reserved
to the city or for the construction and operation of the coaxial between a city
studio and the cable communications system head-end, and under no circumstances
shall the city be obligated to pay to a franchisee any fee for service rendered
to the city under the terms of the franchise.
   (N)   Nothing shall be deemed to prohibit the setting of special rates for
certain classes of citizens for certain types of subscriber service, when, by
the determination of the City Council, and at its sole discretion, such special
rates are justified by the potential of such service to assist with the health,
care, and safety of such citizens.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-12-79)
§ 113.19 POLICE POWERS.
   Nothing in this chapter or in any agreement or ordinance in accordance
herewith shall be construed as an abrogation by the city of any of its police
powers.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-12-79)
§ 113.20 ABANDONMENT.
   In the event that the use of any part of the system is discontinued for any
reason by any franchisee for a continuous period of 12 months, or in the event
such system or property has been installed in any street or public place
without complying with requirements of this chapter, or the rights granted have
been terminated, cancelled, or have expired, the franchisee shall promptly
remove from the streets and public places all such property and poles of such
system, other than any which the city may permit to be abandoned in place. In
the event of such removal, the franchisee shall promptly restore the street or
other area from which such property has been removed to a condition
satisfactory to the City Council. Any property of a franchisee to be abandoned
in place, shall be abandoned in such manner as City Council may prescribe. On a
permanent abandonment of the property of a franchisee in place, the franchisee
shall submit to the City Council an instrument to be approved by the City
Council, transferring to the city ownership of such property.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-12-79)
§ 113.21 CONDITIONS OF STREET OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   All transmissions and distribution structures, lines, and equipment
erected by the franchisee within the city shall be so located as to cause
minimum interference with the proper use of streets, alleys, and other public
ways and places and to cause minimum interference with the rights and
reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin any of these streets,
alleys, or other public places. The cable communications system shall be
constructed and operated in compliance with all adopted local and national
construction and safety codes.
   (B)   The installation of the cable communications system shall be in
accordance with all applicable laws, codes, ordinances, rules, and regulations
of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and the city affecting electrical installations
and buildings, now or hereafter in effect.
   (C)   Except when absolutely necessary to service a subscriber and not
simply because it shall be more convenient, economical, or profitable for the
franchisee to so operate, and then only when expressly permitted in writing by
the City Engineer, under such conditions as he shall prescribe for the public
welfare, the franchisee shall not erect or authorize or permit others to erect
any poles or other facilities within the streets of the city for the conduct of
its cable communications system, but shall use the existing poles and other
equipment of the appropriate electrical power and telephone or other utility
companies under such terms and agreements as the franchisee shall negotiate
with these companies. The franchisee shall use its best efforts to insure that
the terms and agreements between the franchisee and any utility company are
concluded in a reasonable time with no unnecessary delay.
   (D)   Should the franchisee be required to place any lines or other
equipment on any boulevard, parkway, or other property under control of the
Metropolitan Parks and Recreation Board, the manner of placement and location
shall be subject to the control of the board.
   (E)   The franchisee may trim trees which infringe on easements, rights-of-
way, or streets of the city to prevent the trees from coming in contact with
the cable communications system.
   (F)   The franchisee shall at its expense, protect, support, temporarily
disconnect, relocate, or remove any property of the franchisee located on
streets, public places, rights-of-way, and easements of the city, when required
by the City Council because of traffic conditions, public safety, street
vacation, freeway and street construction, change or establishment of street
grade, installation of sewers, drains, water pipes, power lines, signal lines,
and tracks or any other type of structures or improvements by the city or the
Commonwealth of Kentucky. If the franchisee fails to do so, the city or the
Commonwealth of Kentucky may cause the necessary work to be completed and the
franchisee shall pay the cost thereof within ten days of receipt of an itemized
account of such cost.
   (G)   Whenever the city or the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall require the
relocation or reinstallation of any property of the franchisee in any of the
streets or public places of the city, it shall be the obligation of the
franchisee upon notice of such requirement to immediately remove and relocate
or reinstall said property as may be reasonably necessary at the sole cost of
the franchisee.
   (H)   Whenever, in any place within the city, all or any part of the
electric or telephone utilities shall be located underground, it shall be the
obligation of the franchisee to locate or to cause its property to be located
underground within such places. If the electric or telephone utilities shall be
located underground, in any place within the city after the franchisee shall
have previously installed its property, nevertheless, the franchisee shall, at
the same time or immediately thereafter, remove and relocate its property also
underground in such places. If the franchisee shall in any case be unable, for
operational reasons only, to locate or relocate any part of its property
underground, then in that event the City Engineer, on being satisfied as to the
facts thereof and subject to the concurrence of the City Council, may permit
such property to remain above the ground even though other facilities may be
placed underground in the area. However, any such permission shall be upon such
conditions as the City Council may require for the public welfare. Any
facilities of the franchisee placed underground at the property owner's
request, in an area where electric and telephone facilities are aerial, shall
be installed with the additional expense paid by the property owner.
   (I)   In the case of disturbance of any street caused by the franchisee, the
franchisee shall, at its own cost and expense and in a manner approved by the
City Engineer, replace and restore such street, in such a condition as before
the work involving such disturbance was done.
   (J)   The franchisee shall upon request temporarily raise or lower its wires
to permit the moving of buildings or other things. The expense of such
temporary removal or raising or lowering of the wires shall be paid by the
person requesting the same and the franchisee shall have the authority to
require such payment in advance. The franchisee shall be given not less than 72
hours advance notice to arrange for such temporary wire changes.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-12-79)
§ 113.22 ARRANGEMENTS BY FRANCHISEE WITH OTHERS.
   There is granted to the franchisee authority to lease, rent, or in any other
manner obtain the use of towers, poles, lines, cables, and other equipment and
facilities from any and all holders of public licenses and utilities within the
city, including, but not limited to, the South Central Bell Telephone Company
and Louisville Gas and Electric Company, and in each instance the franchisee
shall make its own contractual arrangements with such entity in order to obtain
the use of towers, poles, lines, cables, and other facilities and shall report
their arrangements to the City Engineer.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-12-79)
§ 113.23 REVIEW, RENEWAL, TERMINATION, AND CANCELLATION.
   (A)   To provide for technological changes in the state of the art of cable
communications, to facilitate renewal procedures, to promote the maximum degree
of flexibility in the cable communications system and to achieve a continuing,
advanced, modern system for the city, the City Council and the franchisee shall
comply with the following review provisions:
      (1)   The City Council may upon the giving of proper notice hold a review
session within 30 days of the second anniversary date of the execution of the
franchise agreement and ordinance awarding a franchise hereunder. Subsequent
review sessions may be scheduled by the City Council at two-year intervals
thereafter. All such review sessions shall be open to the public and notice
shall be given by advertisement in a newspaper of general circulation at least
one week before each session. In addition, the franchisee shall announce the
date and time of each such session, on each of at least five days immediately
preceding each session, at a minimum of six regularly scheduled intervals
daily.
      (2)   Either the city or the franchisee may select additional topics for
discussion at any regular or special review session.
      (3)   Any topic proposed for discussion at any regular or special review
session by a resident of the city and supported by a petition bearing the
signature of 100 city residents, shall be included in the list of topics for
discussion.
   (B)   The procedure for renewal or termination of any franchise or agreement
or ordinance awarding the franchise shall require public hearings prior to
action by the City Council. In the case hearings in connection with a renewal
of a franchise the first of those hearings shall take place not less than 90
days prior to the termination of the franchise. The City Council shall after
hearing take such action as it deems appropriate, which may include any of the
following:
      (1)   The City Council may renew the franchise and agreement and
ordinance awarding a franchise in accordance herewith upon such conditions as
it may direct.
      (2)   The City Council may authorize the franchisee to transfer the cable
communications system to another acceptable franchisee or cable operator.
      (3)   The City Council may solicit proposals for and execute a new
agreement awarding a franchise in accordance with this chapter and any
amendments hereto.
      (4)   The City Council may determine not to authorize the award of any
further franchise, and thereon, may direct the franchisee to dismantle its
cable communication system.
      (5)   If the franchisee determines not to renew the agree-ment awarding a
franchise, the City Council shall proceed to follow one of the courses under
division (B)(2) or (3).
   (C)   Termination.
      (1)   The City Council may terminate any agreement awarding a franchise
in the event of the violation of any provision or of any rule or regulation
promulgated pursuant hereto or of any applicable federal, state, or local law,
or the breach or other failure, refusal, or neglect by the franchisee to
perform its obligations under the terms and conditions of the chapter of any
ordinance or agreement awarding a franchise in accordance herewith, except when
such violation, breach, failure, refusal, or neglect is caused by any of the
following:
         (a)   Act of God.
         (b)   Riot.
         (c)   An emergency declared by the President of the United States of
America, the Governor of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, or the Mayor.
         (d)   A condition beyond the control of the franchisee.
      (2)   In the event that the City Council determines that the franchisee
has violated any provision of this chapter, any rule or regulation promulgated
pursuant hereto, any applicable federal, state, or local law, or any term of an
agreement or ordinance awarding a franchise, except as noted in (C)(1)(a), (b),
(c), or (d) hereof, the City Council shall make a written demand on the
franchisee that it comply with the law or the agreement or ordinance. If the
violation, breach, failure, refusal, or neglect is not remedied to the
satisfaction of the City Council within 30 days following such demand, the City
Council shall determine whether or not, in its sole discretion, such violation,
breach, failure, refusal, or neglect by the franchisee was excusable or
inexcusable as provided in (C)(1)(a), (b), (c), or (d).
         (a)   If the City Council determines such violation, breach, failure,
refusal, or neglect by the franchisee was excusable as provided in (C)(1)(a),
(b), (c), or (d) the City Council shall direct the franchisee to correct or
remedy the same within such additional time, in such manner and upon such terms
and conditions as the Fiscal Court may direct.
         (b)   If the City Council determines such violation, breach, failure,
refusal, or neglect by the franchisee was inexcusable as provided in (C)(1)(a),
(b), (c), or (d), then the City Council shall declare this chapter, the
franchise, or the agreement or ordinance awarding a franchise breached,
terminated, and of no further force and effect. This action shall be taken by
ordinance. Termination shall in no way limit the rights of the city or the
franchisee to any remedies legal or equitable available to the city or
franchisee.
      (3)   If the City Council declares the agreement breached pursuant to (C)
(1) hereof, the City Council may pursue any remedies available to it pursuant
to this chapter or to the franchise agreement or ordinance or any other remedy,
legal, or equitable, available to the City Council. In addition, the City
Council may take action listed in (B)(2), (3), or (4) hereof.
   (D)   In the event that the franchisee dismantles or terminates the cable
communications system or is required by any provision of this chapter to
dismantle or terminate the cable communications system, the franchisee shall,
at the City Council's direction, restore any property, public or private, to
the condition in which it existed prior to the erection or construction of the
system, including any improvements made to such property subsequent to the
construction of the system. Restoration of city property, including, but not
limited to, streets, shall be in accordance with the directions and
specifications of the City Council and all applicable laws. The franchisee, at
the option and direction of the City Council, shall restore the same at its
expense.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-12-79)
§ 113.24 REVOCATION OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)    Any franchise issued hereunder may, after hearing be revoked,
altered, or suspended by the City Council as it deems necessary on any of the
following grounds:
      (1)   For willful false or misleading statement in, or material omissions
from, any application.
      (2)   For failure to file and maintain the bonds required under this
chapter.
      (3)   For repeated failure, as determined by the City Council to maintain
signal quality.
      (4)   For any sale, lease, assignment, or other transfer of its permit
without consent of the City Council.
      (5)   For an inability to provide CATV service to subscribers at the
rates authorized by the City Council.
      (6)   For failure to properly provide service to subscribers or to the
city.
      (7)   For violation of the terms of its franchise or the agreement or
ordinance awarding same or of this chapter as stated herein. In addition to all
other rights and powers reserved or pertaining to the City Council, the City
Council reserves as an additional and as a separate and distinct remedy the
right to revoke the franchise and all rights and privileges of the franchisee
thereunder in any of the following events or for any of the following reasons.
         (a)   The franchisee shall by act or omission fail to comply with any
term or condition of this chapter and shall within 30 days following written
demand by the City Council to effect such compliance fail or refuse to do so.
         (b)   Any provision of this chapter shall be finally adjudged by a
court of law invalid or unenforceable and the City Council further finds that
such provision constitutes at that time a consideration material to the
continuance of the franchise herein granted.
         (c)   The franchisee becomes insolvent; unable, unwilling, or fails to
pay its debts as such debts become due; or a custodian, receiver, trustee, or
agent appointed or authorized to do so, is appointed or takes charge of less
than substantially all or substantially all of the property of a franchisee for
the purpose of enforcing any lien, whether judicial, execution, or otherwise;
is the subject debtor of an order for relief entered by a Bankruptcy Court; or
all or part of a franchisee's facilities be sold under an instrument to secure
a debt and are not redeemed by franchisee within 30 days from the sale.
         (d)   The franchisee attempts to or practices any fraud or deceit in
its conduct or relations under the franchise.
   (B)   No such revocation shall be effective unless or until the City Council
shall have adopted an ordinance setting forth the cause and reasons for the
revocation and the effective date thereof, which ordinance shall not be adopted
without 30 days prior notice thereof to the franchisee and a full opportunity
offered to the franchisee to be heard upon the proposed adoption of that
ordinance. The franchisee shall not be declared in default or be subject to any
sanction under any provision of this contract in any case in which the
performance of any such provision is prevented for reasons beyond its control.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-12-79)
§ 113.25 FORECLOSURE - RECEIVERSHIP.
   (A)   On the foreclosure or other judicial sale of all or a substantial part
of the cable communications system, or upon the termination of any lease
covering all or a substantial part of the system, the franchisee shall notify
the City Council of such fact, and such notification shall be treated as a
notification that a change in control of the franchisee has taken place and the
provisions of this chapter governing the consent of the City Council to such
change in control of the franchisee shall apply.
   (B)   The City Council shall have the right to cancel this franchise 120
days after the appointment of a receiver, or trustee, to take over and conduct
the business of the franchisee, whether in receivership, reorganization,
bankruptcy, or other action or proceeding, unless such receivership or
trusteeship shall have been vacated prior to the expiration of the 120 days, or
unless:
      (1)   Within 120 days after his election of appointment, such receiver or
trustee shall have fully complied with all of the provisions of this chapter
and the agreement and ordinance awarding a franchise hereunder, and remedied
all defaults thereunder.
      (2)   Such receiver or trustee, within the 120 days shall have executed
an agreement, duly approved by the court having jurisdiction over same, whereby
such receiver or trustee assumes and agrees to be bound by each and every
provision of this chapter and the agreement and ordinance awarding a franchise
hereunder.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-12-79)
§ 113.26 BOOKS AND RECORDS OF THE FRANCHISEE.
   (A)   The franchisee shall maintain an office in Jefferson County for so
long as it continues to operate the cable communications system or any portion
thereof and hereby designates such offices as the place where all notices,
directions, orders, and requests may be served or delivered under this chapter.
The City Council shall be notified of the location of such office or any change
thereof.
   (B)   The franchisee shall keep complete and accurate books of account and
records of its business and operations in connection with any franchise granted
under this chapter.
   (C)   The City Council and its representatives shall have access to all
books of account and records of the franchisee for the purpose of ascertaining
the correctness of any and all reports and may examine its officers and
employees in respect thereto.
   (D)   Any false entry in the books of account or records submitted to the
City Council and its representatives to a material fact, knowingly made by the
franchisee, shall constitute a breach of a material provision of this chapter
and any franchise agreement or ordinance hereunder, for which the remedies
provided in this chapter may be invoked.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-12-79)
§ 113.27 NEW DEVELOPMENTS.
   It shall be the policy of the City Council to liberally amend any franchise
of its own volition or on application of a franchisee, after public hearing,
when necessary to require or enable a franchisee to take advantage of any
developments in the field of transmission of television and radio signals which
would afford the franchisee an opportunity to more effectively, efficiently, or
economically serve its customers so that at all times the cable communications
system shall be no less advanced than any other system of comparable size,
excepting only systems which are experimental, pilot, or demonstration.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-12-79)
§ 113.28 TIME OF ESSENCE.
   Whenever this chapter, or any ordinance or agreement awarding a franchise
hereunder, shall set forth any time for any act to be performed by or on behalf
of a franchisee, such time shall be deemed of the essence, and any failure of a
franchisee to perform within the time set forth shall constitute a material
breach of the terms of this chapter and shall entitle the City Council to
invoke all penalties and remedies prescribed in this chapter as well as all
other legal or equitable remedies available to the city.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-12-79)
§ 113.29 FRANCHISEE NOT TO CONTEST VALIDITY.
   By acceptance of any franchise hereunder, a franchisee covenants and agrees
that it will not at any time or in any manner or proceeding set up any term or
condition of this chapter or of any ordinance or agreement awarding a franchise
hereunder as unreasonable, arbitrary, voidable, or void, or that the City
Council had not the power or authority to make such term or condition, but
shall be required to accept the validity of same in their entirety.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-12-79)
§ 113.30 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, operate, or to carry
on the business of distributing to any persons in the incorporated areas of the
city, any television, radio, or nonbroadcast signals by means of a cable
communications system unless a franchise therefor has first been obtained from
the City Council, and unless such franchise is in full force and effect.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install, or maintain
within any public street in the incorporated areas of the city, equipment or
facilities for distributing any television, radio or nonbroadcast signals
through a cable communications system, unless a franchise authorizing such use
of such street or property or area has first been obtained from the City
Council, and unless such franchise is in full force and effect.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to make any
unauthorized connection, whether physically, electrically, acoustically,
inductively, or otherwise, with any part of a franchised cable communications
system within the incorporated areas of the city, for the purpose of taking or
receiving television signals, radio signals, pictures, programs, sound, or
other nonbroadcast signals.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to make any
unauthorized connection, whether physically, electrically, acoustically,
inductively, or otherwise, with any part of a franchised cable communications
system within the incorporated areas of the city, for the purpose of enabling
himself or others to receive any television signal, radio signal, picture,
programs, sound, or other signals without payment to the owner of this system.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the owner,
to willfully tamper with, remove, or injure any cables, wire, or equipment used
in any cable communications system.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-12-79)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating or failing to comply with any of the provisions
of §§
113.15 or
113.30 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not less than $50 nor more
than $250 or by imprisonment for a term of not to exceed 90 days, or by both
such fine and imprisonment, except that a corporation shall be punished by a
fine of not less than $100 nor more than $5,000.
   (B)   Each day that a person violates or fails to comply with the terms of
§§
113.15 or
113.30 shall constitute a separate offense under this chapter.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-12-79)
CHAPTER 114: ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
114.01   County regulations adopted
   
114.02   County license required
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 COUNTY REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   The city does hereby elect to have Jefferson County Ordinance No. 24, Series
1987, as amended by Jefferson County Ordinance No. 14, Series 1988, and as may
be hereafter amended, apply in the city.
(Ord. 89-12, passed 7-25-89)
§ 114.02 COUNTY LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any adult entertainment
activity (as defined in Jefferson County ordinances) in the city for which a
county license is required without having first secured a county license and
filing a copy of said license with the City Clerk.
(Ord. 89-12, passed 7-25-89)
Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall upon conviction be punished by a fine of not less than
$250 nor more than $500 or imprisonment not to exceed 50 days, or both, for
each offense. Each day on which any violation of this chapter shall occur shall
be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 89-12, passed 7-25-89)
CHAPTER 115: FEES FOR INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
115.01   Imposition of license fee
   
115.02    Fees to be paid to general revenue fund
   
115.03   Fees for companies issuing life insurance policies
   
115.04    Fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
115.05    Due date; interest and refunds
   
115.06    Written breakdown of collections
   
115.07    Inspection of records and accounts
   
115.08    Liability of agents
§ 115.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee (hereinafter
referred to as a local government premiums tax, "LGPT"), for the privilege of
engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits of the city,
on a calendar-year basis, based upon the following:
   (A)   "Premiums" is defined as premiums actually collected by an insurance
company within each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of policies and
contracts of insurance on risks located within the city and includes premiums
on new policies and contracts of insurance and on renewal business, as well as
all other classes of premiums, less all premiums returned to policyholders.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) below, the license fee
imposed upon each insurance company which issues any insurance policy or
contract of insurance shall be the following percentage of premiums on those
classes of insurance which such company is authorized to issue (the "base
fee"):
 
             Fire and Casualty                                    All other
             Allied   Liability Vehicle Inland Marine Health Life risks taxed
             Perils   Only
Initial Rate 5%       5%        5%      5%            5%     5%   5%
 
The base fee shall not apply to premiums exempted by state or federal law.
   (C)   In addition to the base fee, an additional license fee in the amount
of 7.5% is hereby imposed by the city upon each insurance company on the
premiums for each class of insurance listed in division (B) above, provided
that Louisville Metro has raised its LGPT rate from 5% to 12.5% effective July
1, 2019 for any of the classes of insurance listed in division (B) above. In
the event the Louisville Metro LGPT effective July 1, 2019 is raised to an
amount different than 12.5%, but more than the city's base fee, the city hereby
imposes an additional license fee on each class of insurance listed in division
(B) above, equal to the city LGPT credit allowable under KRS 91A.080(12). In
the event the Louisville Metro LGPT effective July 1, 2019 remains 5% for any
insurance listed in division (B) above, the city's base fee shall apply.
(Ord. 19-04, passed 3-12-19)
§ 115.02 FEES TO BE PAID TO GENERAL REVENUE FUND.
   The license fee or tax established by this chapter is imposed and levied for
the purpose of general revenue funds and shall be paid into the general fund of
the city.
(Ord. 19-04, passed 3-12-19)
§ 115.03 FEES FOR COMPANIES ISSUING LIFE INSURANCE POLICIES.
   The license fee or tax imposed by a city upon each insurance company with
respect to life insurance policies may be based upon the first year's premiums
shall be applied to the amount of the premiums actually collected within each
calendar quarter upon the lives of persons residing within the corporate limits
the city.
(Ord. 19-04, passed 3-12-19)
§ 115.04 FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE INSURANCE.
   (A)   The license fee or tax imposed upon each insurance company with
respect to any policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be of the
premiums actually collected by the insurance company within each calendar
quarter on risks located within the corporate limits of the city on those
classes of business which the insurance company is authorized to transact, less
all premiums returned to policyholders.
   (B)   The license fee or tax shall also not apply to premiums:
      (1)   Received on policies of group health insurance provided for state
employees under KRS 18A.225;
      (2)   Received on policies insuring employers against liability for
personal injuries to their employees or the death of their employees caused
thereby, under the provisions of KRS chapter 342;
      (3)   Received on health insurance policies issued to individuals;
      (4)   Received on policies issued through Kentucky Access created in
Subtitle 17B of KRS Chapter 304;
      (5)   Received on policies for high deductible health plans as defined in
26 U.S.C. 223(c)(2);
      (6)   Received on multi-state surplus lines, defined as non-admitted
insurance as provided in Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
Act Pub. L. no. 115-203; or
      (7)   Paid to insurance companies or surplus lines brokers by non-profit
self-insurance groups or self-insurance entities whose membership consists of
cities, counties, charter county government, urban-county government,
consolidated local government, unified local government, school districts, or
any other political subdivisions of the Commonwealth.
   (C)   No license fee or tax imposed under this section shall apply to
premiums paid to insurers of municipal bonds, leases, or other debt instruments
issued by or on behalf of a city, county, charter county government, urban-
county government, consolidated local government, special district, nonprofit
corporation, or other political subdivision of the Commonwealth. However, this
exemption shall not apply if the bonds, leases, or other debt instruments are
issued for profit or on behalf of for-profit or private organizations.
(Ord. 19-04, passed 3-12-19)
§ 115.05 DUE DATE; INTEREST AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30
days after the end of each calendar quarter.
   (B)   Any insurance company or agent that overpays any license fee or tax to
a city shall be refunded the amount overpaid. If it is determined that an
insurance company or agent paid a license fee or tax to a city based upon
premiums collected upon lives or risks which are discovered to be located
outside the legal corporate limits of the city which was paid the license fee
or tax, the insurance company or agent shall be refunded those license fees and
taxes within 90 days' notice to the city paid.
   (C)   License fees which are not paid on or before the due date shall bear
interest at the tax interest rate as defined in KRS 131.010(6) from the date
due until paid.
(Ord. 19-04, passed 3-12-19)
§ 115.06 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city with a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(Ord. 19-04, passed 3-12-19)
§ 115.07 INSPECTION OF RECORDS AND ACCOUNTS.
   Every insurance company subject to license fees or tax shall maintain
records adequate to support the reports required to be filed under this
chapter. Authority is given to the city or a representative thereof to make
inspection of the books, accounts and records of the agent or insurance company
to verify the correctness of any report or breakdown of collections.
(Ord. 19-04, passed 3-12-19)
§ 115.08 LIABILITY OF AGENTS.
   This section applies to insurance agents and surplus lines brokers to the
extent they are responsible for collection, reporting, and payment of license
fees or taxes pursuant to KRS 91A.080.
(Ord. 19-04, passed 3-12-19)
CHAPTER 116: SOLICITATION
Section
Charitable Solicitation
   
116.01   Certificate of registration required for charitable or civic
organizations
Registration and Regulation of Solicitation
   
116.25   Definitions
   
116.26   Certificate of registration
   
116.27   Application for certificate of registration
   
116.28   Revocation of certificate
   
116.29   Notice regulating soliciting
   
116.30   Duty of solicitors
   
116.31   Uninvited soliciting prohibited
   
116.32   Time limits on soliciting
   
116.33   Exemptions
   
116.34   Fees
   
116.35   Appeals
 
   
116.98   Civil remedies
   
116.99   Penalty
CHARITABLE SOLICITATION
§ 116.01 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION REQUIRED FOR CHARITABLE OR CIVIC
ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   Any person required to register as a professional solicitor or
fundraising consultant by virtue of KRS 367.650 to 367.670 must maintain a
current valid registration statement and approval of the Kentucky Attorney
General before acting as a professional solicitor or fundraising consultant
within the City of St. Matthews.
   (B)   Any person required to register as a professional solicitor or
fundraising consultant by virtue of KRS 367.650 to 367.670, must maintain full
compliance with KRS 367.650 to 367.670, as well as compliance with City of St.
Matthews regulations concerning pedestrians in the right-of-way contained in
Chapter 74 of the city's ordinances, as a condition of acting as a professional
solicitor or fundraising consultant within the City of St. Matthews.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 1-12-21)
REGISTRATION AND REGULATION OF SOLICITORS
§ 116.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "CITY." The City of St. Matthews.
   "METRO." The Louisville/Jefferson County Metro Government or any agency
thereof.
   "REGISTERED SOLICITOR." Means and includes any person who has obtained a
valid certificate of registration as hereinafter provided, which certificate is
in the possession of the solicitor on his or her person while engaging in
soliciting.
   "RESIDENCE." Means and includes every separate living unit occupied for
residential purposes by one or more persons, contained within any type of
building or structure.
   "SOLICITING." Means and includes any one or more of the following
activities:
      (1)   Seeking, either through in person solicitation or by personally
delivering printed solicitations to a premises, to obtain orders for the
purchase of goods, wares, merchandise, foodstuffs, services of any kind,
character, or description whatsoever, for any kind of consideration whatsoever;
      (2)   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase
of insurance of any type, kind, or publication;
      (3)   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers, and every other type or kind of publication; or
      (4)   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing, or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit
association, organization, corporation, or project.
(Ord. 14-09, passed 9-23-14; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 1-12-21)
§ 116.26 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   Every person desiring to engage in soliciting as herein defined from persons
in this city, is hereby required to make application for a city certificate of
registration as hereinafter provided. Such certificate shall be carried by the
solicitor and both this certificate and the county clerk certificate shall be
displayed upon the request of any peace officer, code enforcement officer,
citation officer, or any person being solicited.
(Ord. 14-09, passed 9-23-14) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.27 APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to secure a license as a
solicitor shall make a written application under oath. Such application shall
contain at least the following information:
      (1)   The name and permanent home address and telephone number and full
local address and telephone number of the applicant;
      (2)   If not self-employed, the name, address and telephone number of the
employer or parent organization the applicant is representing and copies of
credentials or documents verifying that relationship;
      (3)   The nature or character of the goods, wares, merchandise, or
services to be offered by the applicant;
      (4)   The place or places where the applicant proposes to engage in
business;
      (5)   A listing of all criminal convictions in the past five years of the
applicant and all employees engaged in the act of soliciting and proof that all
those who will be soliciting are aged 18 or over;
      (6)   A statement of whether applicant has previously been denied a
license under this chapter or if applicant has had a previous license suspended
or revoked and, if so, the reasons or circumstances surrounding the denial,
suspension, or revocation;
      (7)   Applicant must provide proof of his or her tax identification
number and that the applicant has been issued a license to do business within
the City of St. Matthews;
      (8)   A copy of the applicant's driving record from the Commonwealth of
Kentucky or any other state where applicant has resided in the past five years.
A listing of the vehicle license number, vehicle description, vehicle
identification number, vehicle registration papers and proof of insurance of
all vehicles from which the applicant proposes to conduct business; and
      (9)   Proof that the applicant has written standards (which are being
followed), for all its solicitors to wear masks and follow all guidelines for
social distancing and limiting the spread of the COVID-19 virus, or for any
other communicable disease on which the Center for Disease Control has issued
social distancing guidance.
      (10)   Proof that applicant also has applied for and received approval
from Metro Louisville for door to door sales. The Metro Louisville permit for
door to door sales, along with the City of St. Matthews permit for door to door
sales, must be on the solicitor's person at all times while soliciting in the
city.
   (B)   Metro Louisville's solicitation application and its required
disclosures are recognized by the City of St. Matthews and any applicant can
submit its Metro Louisville application and required disclosures to the City of
St. Matthews. The failure to complete the form and provide all requested
information may result in a denial of the license.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any individual to intentionally provide false
information or to intentionally omit requested information on an application
for any license or permit governed bv this chapter.
   (D)   Unless otherwise exempted, all applications shall be accompanied with
the required fee(s) as specified in the schedule of fees established by the
city.
   (E)   The St. Matthews Police Department shall cause to be kept in its
office an accurate record of every application received and acted upon together
with all other information and data pertaining thereto and all certificates of
registration issued under the provisions of this subchapter, and of the denial
of applications. Applications for certificates shall be numbered in consecutive
order as filed, and every certificate issued, and any renewal thereof shall be
identified with the duplicate number of the application upon which it was
issued.
(Ord. 14-09, passed 9-23-14; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 1-12-21)
§ 116.28 REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   A license issued pursuant to this chapter may be suspended or revoked
by the City of St. Matthews. A license may be suspended or revoked for the
following reasons:
      (1)   Revocation of the license by Metro Louisville;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for a license;
      (3)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the selling of goods or offer of services;
      (4)   Any facts or conditions which would justify the denial of the
original application;
      (5)   Evidence that any person granted a permit has a criminal conviction
demonstrating a proclivity toward crimes of a pecuniary, sexual, or violent
nature;
      (6)   Attempting to solicit at any home which has posted a clearly
visible non-solicitation sign;
      (7)   Failure to conduct himself or herself at all times in an orderly
and lawful manner;
      (8)   Unwanted distribution of flyers or written materials:
         (a)   It shall be unlawful for any solicitor, peddler or canvasser to
leave a handbill, fiver or other material upon any private premises where the
owner or occupants have posted at the entry to the premises, or at the entry to
the principal building on the premises, a sign bearing the words "No
Trespassers," "No Peddlers" or "No Solicitors," or words of similar import;
         (b)   It shall be unlawful for any solicitor, peddler or canvasser to
leave a handbill, fiver or other material upon any private premises which is
not securely attached thereto. Provided, however, it shall be unlawful to
damage any property to securely attach any handbill, fiver, or other material
to a premise;
         (c)   It shall be unlawful for any solicitor, peddler or canvasser to
leave a handbill, fiver or other material upon any private premises, without
the owner's express permission, which is temporarily or continuously
uninhabited or vacant in any of the following circumstances:
            1.   It is apparent that such property is unoccupied or vacant; or
            2.   A distribution from any date prior has not been removed;
         (d)   It shall be unlawful for any solicitor, peddler or canvasser to
leave a handbill, flier, or other material upon any sidewalk, crosswalk, curb
or curbstone, flagstone or any other portion or part of any public way or
public place, or any lamppost, electric light, sign, hydrant, mailbox, tree, or
upon the piers, columns, trusses, girders, railings, gates or other parts of
any public bridge or viaduct, or other public structure or building; and
         (e)   It shall be unlawful for any solicitor, peddler or canvasser to
leave a handbill, flier or other material upon anv automobile or other vehicle
that is parked upon any street, public parking lot, or commercial parking lot,
without the express consent of the owner of the vehicle, and when acting with
the consent of the owner, upon any automobile in a manner that is not securely
attached thereto.
      (9)   The discovery of any legitimate reason that the applicant presents
a risk to citizens if permitted to engage in activities as a solicitor;
      (10)   Any non-payment of any civil penalties for previous violations of
this chapter; and
      (11)   Conducting the business of vending or peddling under this chapter
in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the
peace or to constitute a menace to the health, safety, or general welfare of
the public.
   (B)   This section shall be self-executing, and the suspension or revocation
shall be effective immediately.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person whose license has been suspended or
revoked to continue in the business of vending or peddling or keep the license
issued to him/her in his/her possession and control, and the same shall
immediately be surrendered to the City of St. Matthews.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 1-12-21)
§ 116.29 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   Every person desiring to secure the protection provided by the regulations
pertaining to soliciting contained in this subchapter shall comply with the
following directions, to-wit:
      The occupant of a residence may place near his or her door a clearly
visible notice such as "NO SOLICITORS INVITED." Placement near the doorbell or
the door-knocker shall be deemed adequate.
(Ord. 14-09, passed 9-23-14)
§ 116.30 DUTY OF SOLICITORS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the city upon which a residence as herein defined is located, to first
examine the notice provided for in this subchapter, if any is attached, and be
governed by the statement contained on any notice. If the notice states: "No
Solicitors Invited," then the solicitor, whether registered or not, shall
immediately and peacefully depart from the premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
(Ord. 14-09, passed 9-23-14) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.31 UNINVITED SOLICITING PROHIBITED.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting as herein defined, in defiance of the
notice exhibited at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
116.30.
(Ord. 14-09, passed 9-23-14) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.32 TIME LIMITS ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person whether registered under this subchapter or not, to go upon the premises
and ring the doorbell upon or near the door of a residence located thereon, or
rap or knock upon any door or create any sound in any other manner calculated
to attract the attention of the occupant of such residence, for the purpose of
securing an audience with the occupant thereof and engage in soliciting as
herein defined, prior to 9:00 a.m. or after 7:00 p.m. of any day of the week,
or at any time on Sunday or on a state or national holiday.
(Ord. 14-09, passed 9-23-14) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.33 EXEMPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to any member or members of a religious,
charitable, health, welfare, educational, political or youth service
organization, who is acting as a peddler by selling or offering to sell goods
or services to raise funds for the work of such organization and for no other
purpose. The City Ordinance Enforcement Officer may require any organization or
individual claiming exemption to appear and present evidence in support of said
membership and purpose.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 1-12-21)
§ 116.34 FEES.
   The following fees shall be paid to the City of St. Matthews at the time of
the filing of an application for a certificate of registration. Such fees are
intended to cover only the actual cost of the administration of the provisions
of this subchapter.
   (A)   Application for Certificate of Registration.      $ 5.00
   (B)   Replacement for lost certificate    (Same as (A) above).
(Ord. 14-09, passed 9-23-14)
§ 116.35 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person, entity, or business aggrieved by the denial, suspension,
or revocation of a license or permit under this chapter shall have the right to
appeal to the Mayor of the City of St. Matthews within seven business days of
receipt of said notice of denial, suspension, or revocation. The notice of
appeal must be written with basis for said appeal.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an appeal, the Mayor shall schedule a time and date
within 30 calendar days for the appeal to be heard.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 1-12-21)
§ 116.98 CIVIL REMEDIES.
   The Administrator shall have authority to enforce the provisions of §§
116.01 through
116.13 in the name of the City of St. Matthews by filing any proper legal or
equitable action in any court of competent jurisdiction, including the
assessment of fines equal to the penalty in §
116.99(A) below, which may be in addition to the criminal penalty in §
116.99(A) below.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 7-27-04)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any individual, person, professional solicitor or fundraising
consultant who violates any applicable provision of this §§
116.01 through
116.13 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50, nor more than $500, or
imprisonment for a period not to exceed 6 months or both. Each day of any such
violation shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 7-27-04)
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
116.25 through
116.34 shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not more than
$100 for each offense, with each residence solicited constituting a separate
offense for which a separate fine may be levied.
(Ord. 14-09, passed 9-23-14)
TITLE XIII: MISDEMEANORS
      Chapter
         
130.   RESERVED
CHAPTER 130: RESERVED
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.     DEVELOPMENT CODE
         
151.     RESERVED
         
152.     BUILDING REGULATIONS
         
153.     PROPERTY REASSESSMENT MORATORIUM PROGRAM
         
154.     SIGNS
CHAPTER 150: DEVELOPMENT CODE
Section
   
150.01   Development Code adopted by reference
§ 150.01 DEVELOPMENT CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The City of St. Matthews does hereby approve, re-adopt and enact in full the
full text of the Development Code for all of Jefferson County, Kentucky,
including Zoning District Regulations, as in effect April 2001; along with all
amendments to said version of the Development Code recommended by the Planning
Commission, excepting only the following amendments, substitutions and
additions:
   (A)   City of St. Matthews Ordinance 00-12, approving certain Development
Code amendments recommended by the Planning Commission, but also modifying the
R-4 residential single family side yard requirement and adding addition
provisions in Section 9.8, relating to defining cemetery boundaries.
   (B)   City of St. Matthews Ordinance 06-01, adopting the motor vehicle
parking and loading standards as contained in chapter 9 of the Land Development
Code of Metro Louisville as amended.
   (C)   City of St. Matthews Ordinance 08-01, approving certain Development
Code amendments to the definition of accessory uses.
   (D)   City of St. Matthews Ordinance 11-01, approving certain Development
Code amendments to Article 6 and Article 15 relating to conditional use permits
for restaurants with outdoor alcohol sales.
   (E)   City of St. Matthews Ordinance 13-01, approving certain Development
Code amendments to Article 11 and readopting Article 11 of the Development Code
relating to signs, along with modified language for freestanding signs.
   (F)   City of St. Matthews Ordinance 14-04, approving certain Development
Code amendments to Article 11 and readopting Article 11 of the Development Code
relating to signs.
(Ord. 16-13, passed - -16)
CHAPTER 151: RESERVED
CHAPTER 152: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Adoption of Uniform Codes
   
152.01   State building code adopted
   
152.02   State plumbing code adopted
   
152.03   National electrical code adopted
   
152.04   Administration of codes
Buildings and Permit Fees
   
152.10   Building or remodeling permit required
   
152.11   Display
   
152.12   Fee schedule
   
152.13   (Reserved)
   
152.14   Expiration of letter of compliance
   
152.15   Exterior of a building to be completed within time of permit
Permits for Signs and Billboards
   
152.20   Permits for erection of billboards
Wrecking, Razing or Moving Buildings
   
152.30   Permit required to wreck, raze or move a building
   
152.31   Application and issuance of permit
   
152.32   (Reserved)
   
152.33   Removal of debris and grading of land
Obstructions to Cross Visibility at Intersections
   
152.40   Where requirements applicable
   
152.41   Area within which obstructions to vision forbidden
   
152.42   Exceptions
   
152.43   Abatement procedures
Binding Element Enforcement
   
152.50   Definitions
   
152.51   Intent and enforcement of binding elements
   
152.52   Authority of the Planning Commission/St. Matthews
   
152.53   Form of citations and issuance
   
152.54   Hearings before Planning Commission
   
152.55   Appeal of Planning Commission
   
152.56   Payment of fines
   
152.57   Civil action
 
   
152.99   Penalty
ADOPTION OF UNIFORM CODES
§ 152.01 STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The city hereby adopts the Kentucky Building Code, and the Kentucky
Residential Code latest edition, as amended and supplemented from time to time,
as the official building code within the city for all buildings located within
the city, including but not limited to single-family dwellings.
   (B)   Penalties for violation of the Kentucky Building Code (Uniform State
Building Code) shall be those penalties provided by KRS 198B.990, as amended
from time to time.
(Ord. 18-1985, passed 11-25-85; Am. Ord. 24-03, Series 2024, passed 5-28-24)
§ 152.02 STATE PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   The Kentucky State Plumbing Law Regulations and Code as amended, and all
subsequent amendments thereto, is adopted, a copy of which code is made a part
hereof by reference.
(Ord. 9, passed 3-25-75; Am. Ord. 24-03, Series 2024, passed 5-28-24)
§ 152.03 NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   In order to continue uniformity with other governmental units within
Jefferson County with respect to electrical installations and services, the
city adopts the National Electrical Code, and all subsequent amendments
thereto, printed and copyrighted by the National Fire Protection Association, a
copy of which code is made a part hereof by reference.
(Ord. 9, passed 3-25-75; Am. Ord. 24-03, Series 2024, passed 5-28-24)
§ 152.04 ADMINISTRATION OF CODES.
   The administration of the provisions of these three codes, as they apply to
the city, shall be in accordance with the arrangement which the city presently
has with the appropriate authorities of Louisville/Jefferson County Metro
Government and in accordance with further agreements with the appropriate
authorities of Jefferson County which may hereafter be entered into by the
Mayor, on behalf of the city, with the consent of the City Council.
(Ord. 9, passed 3-25-75; Am. Ord. 24-03, Series 2024, passed 5-28-24)
BUILDINGS AND PERMIT FEES
§ 152.10 BUILDING OR REMODELING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Detailed plans for the construction of any building, or addition to an
existing building or for the remodeling of any existing building must be
submitted to and approved by the City Engineer, and Director of Public Works,
and a letter of compliance issued before construction is begun. If and when the
plans are approved by the city, applicant may request a building permit to be
issued by the Louisville/Jefferson County Metro Government, for construction of
the improvement requested. Plans shall be reviewed for compliance with the
ordinances of the city, review for provision of safe and efficient vehicular
transportation, adequate drainage facilities and compliance with the
Development Code. The applicant and its contractors and subcontractors must
also show they are compliant with the city’s business license and occupational
tax requirements in Chapter 110. Any decision of the city denying a letter of
compliance must be in writing and must contain factual findings sufficient to
support the denial. The denial may be appealed by the applicant within 20 days
of the denial, which appeal must be in writing and addressed to the Mayor. The
appeal will be heard and decided by the City Council at its next available
regularly scheduled meeting after the appeal has been received, or at any date
agreed upon by city and applicant.
   (B)   For any project that proposes construction of 25 or more off-street
parking spaces, and/or construction or renovation of 3,000 or more square feet
of a non-residential/mixed use building (unless totally enclosed within a mall,
or mall type building), and/or creation of more than five single-family
dwelling units, and/or creation of ten or more multi-family dwelling units, a
development plan must be approved by the City Council, after review of the
recommendation of the Planning Commission required under the Development Code,
if any. The scope of the city’s review shall include, but not be limited to,
the following factors:
      (1)   The conservation of natural resources on the property proposed for
development, including: trees and other living vegetation, steep slopes, water
courses, floodplains, soils, air quality, scenic views, and historic sites;
      (2)   The provisions for safe and efficient vehicular and pedestrian
transportation both within the development and the community;
      (3)   The provisions of sufficient open space (scenic and recreational)
to meet the needs of the proposed development;
      (4)   The provision of adequate drainage facilities on the subject site
in order to prevent drainage problems from occurring on the subject site or
within the community;
      (5)   The compatibility of the overall site design (location of
buildings, parking lots, screening, landscaping) and land use or uses with the
existing and projected future development of the area;
      (6)   Conformation of the development plan with the Comprehensive Plan
and Development Code.
(Ord. 10, passed 8-20-68; Am. Ord. 24-03, Series 2024, passed 5-28-24) Penalty,
see §
152.99(A)
§ 152.11 DISPLAY.
   The building permit and letter of compliance shall be displayed in a
conspicuous location on the premises and shall remain so displayed during the
entire period of construction.
(Ord. 10, passed 8-20-68; Am. Ord. 24-03, Series 2024, passed 5-28-24) Penalty,
see §
152.99(A)
§ 152.12 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The fees, payable to the city, for letters of compliance and permits for
signs shall be as set in a schedule of fees approved by the city.
(Ord. 4, passed 4-27-71; Am. Ord. 24-03, Series 2024, passed 5-28-24)
§ 152.13 (RESERVED).
§ 152.14 EXPIRATION OF LETTER OF COMPLIANCE.
   A letter of compliance shall expire and terminate at the expiration of 12
months from its date unless the construction of the improvements authorized has
in good faith begun within that time.
(Ord. 4, passed 1-28-69; Am. Ord. 24-03, Series 2024, passed 5-28-24) Penalty,
see §
152.99(B)
§ 152.15 EXTERIOR OF A BUILDING TO BE COMPLETED WITHIN TIME OF PERMIT.
   If construction of an improvement authorized by a letter of compliance has
begun as herein provided, then the exterior of the building, including removal
of construction debris, shall be completed within the period of the letter of
compliance. Failure so to do shall be a violation of §§
152.14 and
152.15 by the holder of the letter of compliance. Failure to so remove said
debris shall constitute a continuing violation, each day’s continuance being a
separate offense, until the debris is removed. Violation of this section may be
avoided by the holder of the letter of compliance, at least ten days before its
expiration, applying to the city for a renewal of the letter of compliance for
completion of the improvement, and showing good cause for failure to complete
the exterior walls and removing the debris within the period of the original
letter of compliance. Upon good cause being shown the city may issue a renewal
letter of compliance, for not longer than six months, for completion of the
improvement.
(Ord. 4, passed 1-28-69; Am. Ord. 24-03, Series 2024, passed 5-28-24) Penalty,
see §
152.99 (B)
PERMITS FOR SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
§ 152.20 PERMITS FOR ERECTION OF BILLBOARDS.
   (A)   No billboard shall be erected in the city without a permit having been
first approved by the City Council.
   (B)   No sign advertising any person, place, activity, product, or business
shall be erected or placed in the city without a permit having been first
approved by the City Council.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to a sign painted on or applied to the
surface of a billboard or building.
   (D)   The permits provided for in this section may be approved and issued by
one or more members of a committee of four of the members of the City Council,
appointed by the Mayor. If a majority of the committee are unable to agree on
the issuance of the permit, the application shall be submitted to the full
Council for appropriate action.
(Ord. 8, passed 4-24-73; Am. Ord. l, passed 1-8-74) Penalty, see §
152.99(C)
WRECKING, RAZING OR MOVING BUILDINGS
§ 152.30 PERMIT REQUIRED TO WRECK, RAZE OR MOVE A BUILDING.
   No building shall be wrecked, razed, or moved, in whole or in part, without
a letter of compliance therefor having first been obtained from the city.
(Ord. 25, passed 11-10-70; Am. Ord. 24-03, Series 2024, passed 5-28-24)
Penalty, see §
152.99(D)
§ 152.31 APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   Any person desiring to wreck, raze, or move any building, in whole or in
part, shall make written application therefor to the city, giving the location
and general description of the building to be wrecked, razed, or moved, in
whole or in part. If the city approves the application a letter of compliance
will be issues for the work.
(Ord. 25, passed 11-10-70; Am. Ord. 24-03, Series 2024, passed 5-28-24)
Penalty, see §
152.99(D)
§ 152.32 (RESERVED).
§ 152.33 REMOVAL OF DEBRIS AND GRADING OF LAND.
   The applicant shall remove, within a reasonable time, from the building site
any and all residue and waste material resulting from the wrecking, razing, or
moving of any building, and shall grade the building site with provisions for
adequate drainage.
(Ord. 25, passed 11-10-70) Penalty, see §
152.99(D)
OBSTRUCTIONS TO CROSS VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS
§ 152.40 WHERE REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE.
   Sections
152.40 through
152.43 shall apply to property which is located at corners formed by
intersecting streets and which lies within that triangular area bounded by the
property lines abutting upon the streets and a diagonal line joining points on
the property lines 35 feet from the point of intersection of the property
lines.
(Ord. 6, passed 2-11-69)
Penalty, see § 152.99(E)
§ 152.41 AREA WITHIN WHICH OBSTRUCTIONS TO VISION FORBIDDEN.
   Within the described area, and except as provided in §
152.42, it shall be unlawful to install, set out or maintain, or to allow the
intallation, setting out or maintenance of, any sign, hedge, shrubbery, tree,
natural growth, or other obstruction of any kind which obstruct cross
visibility at a level between 24 inches and 72 inches above the level of the
center of the adjacent intersection.
(Ord. 6, passed 2-11-69)
Penalty, see § 152.99(E)
§ 152.42 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of §
152.41 shall not apply to the following items.
   (A)   Permanent buildings.
   (B)   Existing grades which, by reason of natural topography, exceed 24
inches above the level of the center of the adjacent intersection, provided
that no obstruction to cross visibility not specifically excepted shall be
installed, set out or maintained on any existing grade which is more than 24
inches and less than 72 inches above the level of the center of the adjacent
intersection.
   (C)   Trees having limbs and foliage trimmed in such manner that no limbs or
foliage extend into the area between 24 inches and 72 inches above the level of
the center of the adjacent intersection.
   (D)   Fire hydrants, public utility poles, street markers, and traffic
control devices.
(Ord. 6, passed 2-11-69)
Penalty, see § 152.99(E)
§ 152.43 ABATEMENT PROCEDURES.
   Any obstruction to cross visibility maintained in violation of §§
152.40 through
152.42 shall be deemed to be a public nuisance inconsistent with and
detrimental to the public safety and shall be abated in accordance with the
following procedures.
   (A)   The chief of police shall cause to be served by certified mail a
written notice and order of abatement upon the owner, tenant, or person in
charge of the premises upon which the obstruction exists.
   (B)   The obstruction shall be removed by the person responsible within 10
days from the date of receipt of the notice and order.
   (C)   Any person receiving the notice and order may, within 10 days from
receipt, request in writing a hearing before the city council. This hearing
shall be held not later than 30 days following the date of request. If, after
the hearing, the city council finds that the obstruction in question does in
fact constitute a public nuisance, the city council shall order that the
nuisance be abated within 10 days from the date of the order. Upon failure by
any person to comply with an order, the chief of police shall proceed forthwith
to remove or cause the removal of the obstruction and the cost shall be a
charge against the person responsible and shall be a lien against the property
from which the obstruction is removed, and shall be payable within 30 days
after notice of the charge is mailed by the city clerk to the property owner.
(Ord. 6, passed 2-11-69) Penalty, see §
152.99(E)
BINDING ELEMENT ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (A)   “BINDING ELEMENT.” A binding requirement, provision, restriction, or
condition imposed by the Planning Commission, or its designee, or a promise or
agreement made by an applicant in writing, in connection with the approval of a
land use development plan or subdivision plan.
   (B)   “CITY.” The City of St. Matthews.
   (C)   “LAND USE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.” An officer authorized by the Planning
Commission, or its designee, to enforce binding elements.
   (D)   “LAND USE ORDINANCE.” An official action of the City of St. Matthews,
which is a regulation of a general and permanent nature relating to the use and
development of land within the City of St. Matthews. It is enforceable as a
local law and includes any provision of the Code of Ordinances which embodies
all or part of an ordinance.
   (E)   “PLANNING COMMISSION.” The Louisville Metro Planning Commission.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-13-16)
§ 152.51 INTENT AND ENFORCEMENT OF BINDING ELEMENTS.
   The violation of any binding element, as defined herein, shall constitute a
civil offense which may subject the violator to the penalties and processes
allowed under KRS 100.401 through 100.417, which include a civil fine and/or
other remedial orders of the Planning Commission, or the City of St. Matthews
(if the Planning Commission appoints a City of (St. Matthews Local Enforcement
Officer), in accordance with procedures set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-13-16)
§ 152.52 AUTHORITY OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION/ST. MATTHEWS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission, or its designee, may issue remedial orders
and impose civil fines as a method of enforcing a binding element when a
violation of that binding element has occurred.
   (B)   If the violation of a binding element would also constitute an offense
under any provision of the Kentucky Revised Statutes, including specifically,
and without limitation, any provision of the Kentucky Penal Code and any moving
motor vehicle offense, such a violation of a binding element shall not be a
civil offense under this subchapter but a criminal offense which may be
prosecuted in the court of appropriate jurisdiction.
   (C)   In the exercise of its authority under this subchapter, the Planning
Commission, or its designee, shall have the power to:
      (1)   Adopt rules and regulations to govern the operation and conduct of
its hearing that are consistent with requirements of this subchapter;
      (2)   Conduct hearings to determine whether there has been a violation of
a binding element;
      (3)   Subpoena alleged violators, witnesses and evidence to its hearings
and all such subpoenas issued by the Planning Commission, may be served by any
Land Use Enforcement Officer;
      (4)   Take testimony under oath and the Chairman of the Planning
Commission may administer such oaths to witnesses prior to their testimony
before the Planning Commission on any matter;
      (5)   Make findings and issue orders that are necessary to remedy any
violation of a binding element;
      (6)   Impose civil fines as authorized in this subchapter on any person
found to have violated any binding element that the Planning Commission, or its
designee, is authorized to enforce.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-13-16)
§ 152.53 FORM OF CITATIONS AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings for the violation of a binding element shall
be initiated by the issuance of a citation by a Land Use Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   When a Land Use Enforcement Officer, based upon personal observation
or investigation, has reasonable cause to believe that a violation of a binding
element has occurred, the officer may issue a warning notice and citation to
the offender. Prior to issuing a citation, however, the officer shall issue a
warning notice giving the offender ten days, Saturdays, Sundays and holidays
excluded, in which to remedy the violation. If the person to whom the notice is
given fails or refuses to remedy the violation within the specified time, the
Land Use Enforcement Officer may issue a citation. However, if the violation is
a threat to the public safety, the Land Use Officer immediately shall issue a
citation without a prior warning notice.
   (C)   The citation issued by the Land Use Enforcement Officer shall be in a
form prescribed by the Planning Commission and shall contain, in addition to
any other information required by the Planning Commission:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The date and time the violation of the binding element was
committed;
      (4)   The facts constituting the violation of the binding element;
      (5)   A specific description of the binding element violated;
      (6)   The name of the Land Use Enforcement Officer;
      (7)   The civil fine that will be imposed for the violation if the person
does not contest the citation;
      (8)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (9)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or to contest the citation within the time allowed, the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the
Planning Commission to contest the citation, and that the determination that a
violation was committed shall be final.
   (D)   All citations issued shall be hand-delivered to the alleged violator.
After issuing citation to an alleged violator, the Land Use Enforcement Officer
shall notify the Planning Commission, by delivering the citation to the
administrative official designated by the Planning Commission.
   (E)   When a citation is issued, the person to whom the citation is issued
shall respond to the citation within 14 days of the date the citation was
issued by either paying the civil fine set forth in the citation or requesting,
in writing, a hearing before the Planning Commission to contest the citation.
If the person fails to respond to the citation within 14 days, the person shall
be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing to contest the citation and the
determination that a violation was committed shall be considered final. In this
event, the Planning Commission shall enter a final order determining that the
violation was committed and imposing the civil fine set forth in the citation.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-13-16)
§ 152.54 HEARINGS BEFORE PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   When a hearing before the Planning Commission has been requested, the
Planning Commission, through its clerical and administrative staff, shall
schedule a hearing. The hearing shall be conducted within 30 days of the date
of the request, unless the person who requested the hearing requests or agrees
to a continuance not to exceed 30 days. All continuances must receive the
approval of the Planning Commission, not less than seven days before the date
set for the hearing, the Planning Commission, shall notify the person who
requested the hearing of the date, time and place of the hearing. The notice
may be given by certified mail, return-receipt requested, by personal delivery,
or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual place of residence with any
individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed
of the contents of the notice. Any person requesting a hearing before the
Planning Commission, who fails to appear at the time and place set for the
hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing to contest the
citation and the determination that a violation was committed shall be final.
In this event, the Planning Commission shall enter a final order determining
that the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine set forth in the
citation.
   (B)   Each case before a Planning Commission shall be presented by an
attorney who shall be counsel to the Planning Commission.
   (C)   All testimony before the Planning Commission shall be under oath and
shall be recorded. The Planning Commission shall take testimony from the Land
Use Enforcement Officer, the alleged offender, and any witnesses to the alleged
violation offered by the Land Use Enforcement Officer or the alleged offender.
Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but fundamental due process shall be
observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (D)   After the hearing, the Planning Commission shall determine, based on
the evidence presented, whether a violation was committed. When the Planning
Commission determines that no violation was committed, an order dismissing the
citation shall be entered. When the Planning Commission determines that a
violation has been committed, it shall issue an order upholding the citation
and may order the offender to pay a civil fine in an amount up to the maximum
authorized by this chapter, or may order the offender to remedy a continuing
violation within a specified time to avoid the imposition of a fine, or both,
as authorized herein.
   (E)   Every final order to the Planning Commission shall be reduced to
writing, which shall include the date the order was issued, and a copy of the
order shall be furnished to the person named in the citation. If the person
named in the citation is not present at the time a final order of the Planning
Commission is issued, the order shall be delivered to that person by certified
mail, return-receipt requested; by personal delivery; or by leaving a copy of
the order at that person’s usual place of residence with any individual
residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the
contents of the order.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-13-16) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.55 APPEAL OF PLANNING COMMISSION.
   Any final order issued by the Planning Commission, with respect to a
citation for the violation of a binding element may be appealed in conformity
with KRS 100.413.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-13-16)
§ 152.56 PAYMENT OF FINES.
   The person or entity found to have committed a violation of a binding
element shall be responsible for the amount of all fines assessed for the
violation. The Planning Commission may bring a civil action in its name against
the person or entity and shall have the remedies provided in KRS 100.415.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-13-16)
§ 152.57 CIVIL ACTION.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall prohibit the City of St. Matthews
from taking immediate action in the court of appropriate jurisdiction to remedy
a violation of a binding element, when there is reason to believe that the
existence of the binding element violation presents a serious threat to the
public health, safety and welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action,
the effect of the binding element violation will be irreparable or
irreversible.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-13-16)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A) It shall be the duty of the city Ordinance Enforcement Officer at the
request of the Mayor, to investigate any and all violations of §§
152.10 through
152.43 and to enforce them. Any person, firm, or corporation violating any
provision of §§
152.10 through
152.43 shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not less than $100 or
not more than $500. Each and every day during which the violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense, up to a maximum fine of $1,000 for a first
offense, $3,000 for a second offense in a 12-month period, and $6,000 for a
third offense in a 12- month period.
   (B)   Any person who violates a binding element under §§
152.50 through
152.57 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $500 nor more than $4,000
and shall comply with such remedial orders as may be issued by the Planning
Commission. Each day during which the binding element violation exists after
the period granted by §
152.53(B) to remedy the violation shall be deemed a separate offense, up to a
maximum fine of $1,000 for a first offense, $3,000 for a second offense in a
12-month period, and $6,000 for a third offense in a 12-month period.
(Am. Ord. 16-09, passed 9-13-16; Am. Ord. 24-03, Series 2024, passed 5-28-24)
CHAPTER 153: PROPERTY REASSESSMENT MORATORIUM PROGRAM
Section
   
153.01   Establishment
   
153.02   Qualifications
   
153.03   Application for certificate
   
153.04   Administration
   
153.05   Assessment upon application
   
153.06   Time limit for completion of work
   
153.07   Inspection; issuance of moratorium certificate
   
153.08   Conditions of moratorium
§ 153.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is established a property assessment and reassessment moratorium
program for qualifying properties pursuant to KRS 99.605 and KRS 132.452, and
Kentucky Constitution, Section 172B.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 11-27-90)
§ 153.02 QUALIFICATIONS.
   All existing residential and commercial structures at least 25 years old may
qualify for a reassessment moratorium if:
   (A)   The costs of the improvements made to the structure to repair,
rehabilitate, restore, or stabilize it equal at least 25% of the value of the
improvements to the property based on the latest assessment made by the County
Property Valuation Administrator; or
   (B)   The qualifying property is within a "target area", a census tract
where at least 70% of the residents living in that tract have incomes below 80%
of the median income for Jefferson County or 20% of the residents living in
that tract have incomes below the poverty level, the cost of the improvements
must be equal 8 to at least 10% of the value of the improvements to the
property based on the latest assessment.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 11-27-90)
§ 153.03 APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE.
   Applications for moratorium certificates shall be made to the city at least
30 days before any construction work on the property is begun. Each application
for a moratorium certificate will include or be accompanied by the following:
   (A)   A general description of the property.
   (B)   Proof the property is at least 25 years old.
   (C)   A general description of the proposed use of the property.
   (D)   The nature and extent of the restoration, repair, rehabilitation, or
stabilization and cost estimates based on bids submitted to the owner.
   (E)   If the building is listed on the National Register of Historic Places,
is on the survey of Historic Sites in Kentucky, is in a Preservation District
or designated as a landmark, a certificate of approval from the City Historic
Landmarks and Preservation Districts Commission showing compliance with the
Commission's standards must accompany the application.
   (F)   A time schedule for undertaking and completing the project.
   (G)   If the property is commercial, a descriptive list of the fixed
building equipment, which will be part of the facility and a statement of the
economic advantage (including expected construction employment) shall be part
of the application.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 11-27-90)
§ 153.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   The administering agencies for the moratorium program shall be the City
Council and the City Assessor.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 11-27-90)
§ 153.05 ASSESSMENT UPON APPLICATION.
   The City Assessor and the City Clerk shall maintain a record of all
applications for a property assessment or reassessment moratorium. The City
Assessor shall assess or reassess the property within 30 days of receipt of the
application. This assessment shall be the value on which taxes are not to be
raised for five years after the certificate has been issued; however, this
provision shall not preclude normal reassessment of the property, and provided
further that the period may be for less than five years.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 11-27-90)
§ 153.06 TIME LIMIT FOR COMPLETION OF WORK.
   The applicant shall have two years in which to complete the improvements
unless granted an extension by the City Council. In no case shall the
application be extended beyond two additional years. Nothing herein shall be
deemed to required any extension.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 11-27-90)
§ 153.07 INSPECTION; ISSUANCE OF MORATORIUM CERTIFICATE.
   Upon notice by the applicant to the City Clerk that the work has been
completed on the property, the City Assessor or City Engineer shall conduct an
on-site inspection of the property to certify that the improvements described
in the application have been completed. The City Assessor shall then verify
that the improvements have been completed and the moratorium certificate shall
be issued, provided, however, that no moratorium certificate will be issued on
the property in which there are delinquent city tax bills. In the event the
moratorium has been granted for a period prior to the completion of the
improvements, and the improvements not completed within the required time, city
taxes based on the moratorium assessment and the fair cash value assessment
shall become immediately due and payable upon presentation of a tax bill from
the city.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 11-27-90)
§ 153.08 CONDITIONS OF MORATORIUM.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided in the certificate, the moratorium shall
become effective on the assessment date next following the issuance of the
moratorium certificate and shall remain in effect for five years, or the period
listed if the certificate is less than five years.
   (B)   An assessment or reassessment moratorium certificate may be
transferred or assigned by the holder of the certificate to a new owner or
lessee of the property.
   (C)   Any property granted an assessment or reassessment moratorium may be
eligible for a subsequent moratorium certificate provided that reapplication be
made no sooner than three years following the expiration of the original
moratorium.
   (D)   On the assessment date next following the expiration, cancellation, or
revocation of an assessment or reassessment moratorium, the property shall be
assessed on the basis of its full fair cash value.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 11-27-90)
CHAPTER 154: SIGNS
Section
Sign Permits
   
154.01   Definitions
   
154.02   Sign permits
   
154.03   Sign maintenance
   
154.04   Non-conforming sign
   
154.05   Approvals by City Council
   
154.06   Exemptions
Regulating Signage Along Designated Parkways
    
154.20   Definitions
   
154.21   Outdoor advertising signs
   
154.22   Freestanding business signs
   
154.23   Attached business sign
 
   
154.99   Penalty
SIGN PERMITS
§ 154.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “BILLBOARD.” Also known as an “outdoor advertising sign” or an “off-premises
sign”, a sign used to display, advertise, or otherwise direct attention to any
activity or any business enterprise, commodity, or entertainment conducted,
sold, or offered at a location other than the premises on which the sign is
located.
   “BULLETIN BOARD.” Any temporary sign erected by a charitable, educational,
or religious institution or a public body, which is erected upon the same
property as said institution, for the purpose of announcing related affiliated
seasonal events. A bulletin board shall not be considered an off-premises sign.
   “CHANGEABLE MESSAGE DISPLAY.” Any sign or portion thereof with characters,
letters, illustrations, or other display that can be changed or rearranged
electronically, mechanically, or manually without altering the face or surface
of a sign. A sign on which the only copy that changes is an indication of time
or temperature shall be considered a “time and temperature” portion of a sign
and not a changeable copy sign.
   “DISPLAY SURFACE AREA.” The gross geometric area enclosed by the display
surface of the sign including the outer extremities of all letters, characters,
and delineations, and including structural supports and decorative
embellishments for portable sign above the lowest part of the sign panel or
message; provided further that both faces of a double face sign shall be added
together in determining the display surface area to which the fees are applied;
provided further that in no event shall area computed herein be less than areas
as defined in the city zoning ordinance relating to sign size and location.
   “ERECT.” To build, construct, attach, hang, place, suspend, paint, or affix
a sign.
   “FACE.” A surface lying in a single plane.
   “FREE STANDING SIGN.” A sign which is attached to a part of a completely
self-supporting structure. The supporting structure shall be firmly in or below
the ground surface and not attached to any building or any other structure,
whether portable or stationary.
   “NON-CONFORMING SIGN.” A sign existing at the effective date of the adoption
of this chapter and for which a St. Matthews sign permit has previously been
issued or could have been issued by the city without Council approval which
could not be built under the terms of this chapter or the now existing zoning
district regulations for the city.
   “OFF-PREMISES SIGN.” A sign other than an on-premises sign.
   “ON-PREMISES SIGN.” A sign relating in its subject matter to the premises on
which it is located, or to products, accommodations, services, or activities on
the premises.
   “PORTABLE SIGN.” A single or double faced painted or poster panel type sign
or some variation thereof, which is temporary in nature and located on the
ground or mounted on wheels, easily movable, and not permanently attached and
sometimes referred to as a “small freestanding sign”. No such sign may exceed
32 square feet of surface area per face with no more than two faces.
   “SIGN.” Means and includes every device, frame, figure, character, letter,
mark, plane, point, design, picture, stroke, stripe, trademark, or reading
matter which is used or intended to be used to attract attention or convey
information when the same is placed in view of the general public without
regard to whether it is freestanding, attached to a wall or other structure, or
affixed to the inside or outside of a window or a door. Where matter is
displayed in a random manner without organized relationship to elements, or
where there is reasonable doubt as to the relationship of elements, each
element shall be considered a single sign.
   “TEMPORARY BANNER.” The one temporary attached banner allowed by the zoning
regulations in the commercial and industrial zoning districts and
differentiated from a portable sign.
   “WINDOW.” The combined area of the window pane(s) or glass, the header, the
jamb, the sill, and any muntins or mullions within a single wail opening.
   “WINDOW SIGN.” Any sign or combination of signs attached or affixed to a
window, which sign or signs, in the aggregate, occupy more than 25% of the area
of the single wall opening. A window sign is an attached sign. Retail store
window displays of merchandise, freestanding three-dimensional promotional
items (with or without proprietary words or symbols solely describing the
merchandise and/or merchandise that is sold in the store), and/or display
fixtures or backdrops not affixed to a window shall not be considered a window
sign.
(Ord. 95-06, passed 7-25-95; amend. Ord. 14-06, passed 7-22-14)
§ 154.02 SIGN PERMITS.
    It shall be unlawful for any person, company, business, or occupant of a
building or property, to erect, repair, alter, relocate, or keep within the
city any sign or other advertising structure as defined in this subchapter
without first obtaining a sign permit from the sign officer or other duly
authorized officer of the city and paying the fee required by this section.
Sign permits shall be renewed annually.
   (A)   Application for initial sign permit. Application for initial sign
permits shall be made upon forms provided by the sign officer, and shall
contain or have attached thereto the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant-owner.
      (2)   Location of building, structure, or lot to which or upon which the
sign is to be attached or erected.
      (3)   Position of the sign in relation to nearby buildings or structures
including the distance from the right-of-way line to the leading edge of a
freestanding sign.
      (4)   Clean prints or ink drawings of plans, to true scale with the scale
noted, or other representation acceptable to the sign officer.
      (5)   Name of person, firm, corporation, or association erecting sign,
along with their address, phone number, and the name and phone number of their
contact person.
      (6)   Written consent of the owner of the building, structure, or land to
which or on which the structure is to be erected.
      (7)   For any proposed electronically changeable message display, a
written statement from the sign owner and the sign installer signed and
notarized stating that both understand that the display on said sign shall be a
static display that changes instantaneously no more frequently than once every
5 minutes and that they agree to operate the display in compliance with this
time limitation or the display will be considered to be in violation of
existing laws and can be ordered removed from the premises.
      (8)   Any other information required by the sign officer administering
this subchapter.
   (B)   Sign permit fees.
      (1)   Original permit fees. Every applicant, before being granted a
permit hereunder, shall pay to the city a permit fee in accordance with the
schedule in division (B) (3) below. Such sign permit shall expire on the last
day of the calendar month one year from the date of issue.
      (2)   Renewal permit fees. Renewal permit fees shall be in accordance
with the schedule of fees contained in division (B)(3) of this section. Such
renewal permit shall bear the same permit number as the original permit and
shall expire annually on the last day of the calendar month of the issuance of
the original permit. No new application shall be required for a renewal permit.
If a sign permit is not renewed within 2 months of its expiration and following
2 notices of renewal due having been sent to the party of record responsible
for the sign, the sign officer may order the removal of the sign or signs
covered under the permit. In the alternative, the sign officer may, at his or
her discretion, renew the permit at twice the ordinary renewal fee if the
doubled fee is paid within a time period not to exceed four months after the
renewal fee became due.
      (3)   Schedule of fees.
 
Display Surface Area (sq.ft.) Original Permit Fee Renewal Permit Fee
Up to 16                      $20                 $10
17 to 50                      $30                 $15
51 to 100                     $60                 $30
101 to 300                    $150                $75
301 to 672                    $400                $200
 
      (4)   Existing signs. An applicant for a permit for an existing sign who
shows to the reasonable satisfaction of the sign officer that such sign has a
valid sign permit shall file an application for an original sign permit marked
"renewal"; provided, however, the fee shall be based on the renewal permit fee
as established herein. Where a permit has been paid to the city for a sign
during the 12-month period ending with the effective date of this chapter, full
credit shall be given for the amount so paid toward the cost of a renewal
permit, not to exceed the cost of such renewal permit.
         (a)   All other applicants for a permit for an existing non-conforming
sign as a hereinbefore defined shall file an application for an original permit
and pay the fee therefore.
         (b)   No permit shall be issued for an existing sign unless said sign
is permitted under the then current city zoning regulations or unless such sign
is a non-conforming sign has hereinabove defined. An existing sign for which no
permit was issued and for which no permit could have been issued under prior
city ordinances without Council approval cannot be a non-conforming sign.
         (c)   Any sign erected without having first received a permit shall
require an original application and a permit fee equal to 3 times the original
permit fee, with a minimum fee of $100.
      (5)   Changes in ownership or display material. An original permit
application and fee shall be required for a sign where there is any change or
alteration in the form, method, material, etc. of the display, frame, or
support, or where there is a change in the ownership of the sign. Replacement
of the face of a sign having a valid permit with an identically dimensioned
face for the same owner does not require a new application. (Refreshing the
paint of the original sign display shall not be considered a change or
alteration.)
      (6)   Permit for a portable sign or for a temporary banner. All portable
signs and temporary banners shall require an original permit application and
fee, with the following, additional requirements:
         (a)   No permit for a portable sign on a lot shall be issued for a
period in excess of 10 consecutive days or for cumulative periods of more than
30 days during any calendar year.
         (b)   No permit for a temporary banner shall be issued for a period in
excess of 30 consecutive days or for cumulative periods of more than 90 days in
any calendar year.
         (c)   Each period of display shall require a separate original
application and fee.
         (d)   The maximum area of a portable sign is 32 square feet of surface
area per face with not more than 2 faces.
   (C)   Issuance of sign permits. It shall be the duty of the sign officer,
upon the filing of an application for a sign permit, to examine such plans and
specifications and other data and the premises upon which it is proposed to
erect the sign and, if it shall appear that the proposed structure is in
compliance with all the requirements of this subchapter and all other
ordinances of the city, he or she shall issue the sign permit. Each sign shall
require a separate permit valid only for the location shown thereon, or, at the
discretion of the sign officer, multiple signs on a single site may be issued a
single permit, if on the same application. If the work authorized under the
sign permit has not been complete within six months after date of issuance, the
permit shall become null and void. It shall also be the duty of the sign
officer to issue renewals of sign permits for all signs complying with the
terms of this subchapter (or exceptions hereto) for which a previous sign
permit has been issued, provided, however the sign officer shall not be
authorized to issue an initial sign permit for a billboard or outdoor
advertising sign or off-premises sign, unless such permit is authorized by the
City Council as provided in §
154.05. No permit shall be issued for any sign which does not comply with the
provisions of Article 11 of the Zoning District Regulations of Jefferson
County, Kentucky as adopted by the city, or any other city ordinance relating
to signs or zoning.
   (D)   Electronically Changeable Message Display (ECMD). An Electronically
Changeable Message Display may be permitted as a part of a permanent sign (not
a temporary or portable sign), if it complies with this chapter, the
Development Code and with the following additional requirements:
      (1)   The ECMD shall be an LED message center sign only. No other type of
ECMD shall be permitted.
      (2)   The ECMD shall have automatic dimming capability that can
automatically adjust its brightness level based upon available sunlight.
      (3)   The ECMD shall not exceed a maximum illumination of 7,500 nits when
measured at the sign's face during daylight hours and a maximum illumination of
750 nits when measured at the sign's face between dusk to dawn if located in a
commercial zoning district. However, if an ECMD is in a commercial zoning
district and within 350 feet of a residential zone and visible from any
residence within 350 feet of the sign, the maximum illumination between dusk
and dawn, measured at the sign's face, shall be 200 nits, except as further
limited herein as follows. If the ECMD is within 150 feet of a residential
zone, the ECMD shall discontinue the display between the hours of 11:00 p.m.
and 6:00 a.m. Application may be made for greater illumination, only if the
Applicant proves to the satisfaction of the city sign officer that the ambient
light at a location is uniquely greater in intensity than other similar
locations and that the ambient light substantially diminishes the visibility of
the sign.
      (4)   An ECMD is permitted in a residential district (which includes
office/residential districts) only if it is displayed at a school, church or
government building and otherwise complies with the Development Code. The ECMD
in a residential district shall not exceed a maximum illumination of 7,000 nits
when measured at the sign's face during daylight hours and a maximum
illumination of 100 nits when measured at the sign's face between dusk to dawn,
except as further limited herein as follows. If the ECMD is in a residential
zone, the ECMD shall discontinue the display between the hours of 11:00 p.m.
and 6:00 a.m.
      (5)   The ECMD character area shall consist of no more than 50% of the
allowable sign area specified in the Development Code for the zoning district
in which the sign is located. An ECMD that is part of a sign that is less than
64 square feet in area is exempt from this limit provided that the ECMD shall
not exceed 32 square feet.
      (6)   For any ECMD, a written statement from the sign owner and the sign
installer signed and notarized stating that both understand that the display on
said sign shall be a static display that changes instantaneously no more
frequently than once every five minutes and that they agree to operate the
display in compliance with this time limitation or the display will be in
violation of existing laws and can be ordered removed from the premises.
      (7)   No signs shall use flashing, oscillating, rotating, or intermittent
lights, mimic traffic control, public safety devices, or lighting.
      (8)   The ECMD character area shall be static, changing instantaneously
no more frequently than once every five minutes and shall not appear to flash;
undulate; pulse; portray explosions, fireworks, flashes of light, or blinking
or chasing lights; move toward or away from the viewer; expand or contract;
bounce; rotate; spin; twist; or engage in other similar movements.
      (9)   The ECMD shall not have audio output.
      (10)   ECMD sign permit applications shall include a certification from
the manufacturer or installer and the owner or operator of the sign stating
that the sign shall be operated in accordance with the maximum illumination
levels in the City Code of Ordinances, and that the owner or operator shall
provide renewed certification of such conformance at the time of the annual
renewal of any permit for the sign.
      (11)   The owner of any ECMD programmed from the site or from a remote
location shall program the ECMD to freeze in a static display should any
malfunction occur. Any ECMD shall have an accessible exterior cut-off switch to
shut off the ECMD upon order of the city's sign officer.
(Ord. 95-06, passed 7-25-95; amend. Ord. 14-06, passed 7-22-14; amend. Ord. 18-
05, passed - -18) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.03 SIGN MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Premises maintenance. All free standing signs and the premises
surrounding same shall be maintained by the owner thereof in a clean, sanitary,
and inoffensive condition, and free and clear of all obnoxious substances,
rubbish, and weeds.
   (B)   Unsafe and unlawful signs. If the sign officer shall find that any
sign regulated herein is unsafe or insecure, or is a menace to the public or is
abandoned or is maintained in a dilapidated condition, or has been constructed
or erected or is being maintained in violation of any provision of this
subchapter or the permit issued, the sign officer shall give written notice to
the permittee or property owner thereof of the violation and order the
alteration or removal of the sign. If the permittee or property owner thereof
fails to remove or alter the structure so as to comply with the standards
herein set forth within 10 days, after such notice, such sign may be removed or
altered to comply by the sign officer at the expense of the permittee or owner
of the property upon which it is located. The sign officer shall refuse to
issue a permit to any permittee or owner who refused to pay costs as assessed.
The sign officer may cause any sign which is an immediate peril to persons or
property to be removed summarily and without notice. Such permittee or owner
shall also be liable for the penalties herein prescribed.
(Ord. 95-06, passed 7-25-95; amend. Ord. 14-06, passed 7-22-14)
§ 154.04 NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, a non-conforming sign shall be
defined as a sign which does not conform to the provisions of this subchapter
or which does not conform to the city zoning ordinance in effect at the time of
the adoption of this subchapter or the city zoning ordinance.
   (B)   Non-conforming signs other than temporary or portable signs, lawfully
in existence at the time of the adoption of this subchapter may be continued.
   (C)   No non-conforming sign may be enlarged or altered in any way.
(Ord. 95-06, passed 7-25-95; amend. Ord. 14-06, passed 7-22-14)
§ 154.05 APPROVALS BY CITY COUNCIL.
   Wherever authorization or approval of the City Council shall be required,
the City Council shall have discretion as to whether or not issue a permit. In
such case, no permit shall be issued unless the City Council shall find the
denial of the permit would deprive the applicant of reasonable use of the land,
the sign will preserve and not harm the public safety and welfare and will not
alter the essential character of the neighborhood. The City Council shall also
serve as an appeal board to which any person affected by the denial of a permit
or order of the sign officer may appeal any such decision made by the sign
officer. Such appeal shall be in writing and delivered to the sign officer
within 30 days of receipt of such denial or order and shall specify the grounds
for the appeal. The City Council shall not grant an appeal for a sign that does
not comply with this subchapter or the applicable zoning regulations.
(Ord. 95-06, passed 7-25-95; amend. Ord. 14-06, passed 7-22-14)
§ 154.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   Exemption shall not be construed as relieving the owner of such signs from
the responsibility of complying with applicable provisions of this chapter or
the zoning regulations of the city.
   (A)   The following exemptions shall apply only to the requirement to pay
the fee for the required permit to erect any of the following signs:
      (1)   A single professional name plate erected flat on the wall of a
building and not exceeding 4 square feet of total display surface area.
      (2)   One on-premises building construction sign on a single construction
site in any zoning district provided the maximum display surface area shall not
exceed 32 square feet.
      (3)   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings and date of erection
where cut into any masonry surface or when constructed of bronze or other non-
combustible material.
      (4)   Repainting of a sign.
      (5)   A window sign, provided mat the total square footage of the sign
does not exceed 25% of the total square footage of the window and is an on-
premises sign.
      (6)   A sign affixed to a door, provided mat the total square footage of
the sign does not exceed 6 square feet in area and is an on-premises sign.
      (7)   Directional signs, provided that such signs are limited to wall or
freestanding signs that do not exceed 5 square feet of display surface area; a
menu board serving a drive through lane, provided such menu board does not
exceed a total surface display area of 40 square feet including any
embellishments or other temporary additions.
      (8)   Religious and charitable organization signs containing no
commercial advertising and located on private property.
   (B)   The following exemptions shall apply only to the requirements for a
sign permit and no permits or fees shall be required for the erection of the
following signs:
      (1)   A real estate sign pertaining to the lease or sale of a building or
property provided such sign does not exceed 12 square feet in area.
      (2)   A home occupation sign otherwise lawful and erected flat against
the wall of the residence and not exceeding 1 square foot in area.
      (3)   Traffic or municipal signs, legal notices, railroad crossing signs,
danger, and such temporary and emergency or non-advertising signs.
      (4)   The changing of letters or numbers on a sign designed for manually
changeable lettering or numbering, which sign is legally erected and maintained
for such purposes, where the original sign has a valid permit, and where such
original permit is renewed as herein provided.
      (5)   Election campaign signs.
      (6)   Any sign, located within a building, which sign is not visible to
the public outside the building.
      (7)   A subdivision sign lawfully existing and identifying a subdivision.
      (8)   Bulletin boards 6 feet or less in height with a display surface
area not exceeding 16 square feet.
      (9)   Vending machine signs presently in operation or hereafter
installed.
(Ord. 95-06, passed 7-25-95; amend. Ord. 14-06, passed 7-22-14)
REGULATING SIGNAGE ALONG DESIGNATED PARKWAYS
§ 154.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “BUSINESS SIGN.” Commonly known as an “On-premises sign” is a sign used to
identify a business, profession, trade, or occupation on the site and/or the
generic or brand name of products or services available at the site, and shall
include an attached sign, portable sign, projecting sign, and portable
directional sign on the site.
   “OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN.” Commonly known as a “billboard” or an “off-
premises sign” is a sign used to display, advertise, or otherwise direct
attention to any business enterprise, commodity, service, or entertainment,
conducted, sold, or offered at a location other than the premises on which the
sign is located.
(Ord. 14-05, passed 7-22-14)
§ 154.21 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   No outdoor advertising sign (billboard) shall be located within 2,000 feet
of the nearest edge of the right-of-way line of a designated parkway.
(Ord. 14-05, passed 7-22-14) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.22 FREESTANDING BUSINESS SIGNS.
   (A)   No freestanding business sign shall be located within 200 feet of the
nearest edge of the right-of-way line of a designated parkway. Any freestanding
sign between 200 feet and 500 feet from the nearest right-of-way line of a
designated parkway shall not exceed 20 feet in height, and the face of any such
sign shall not exceed 80 square feet in area; in addition, such a sign must
meet the size limitations imposed by the zoning district in which it is
located.
   (B)   No portable sign or banner (permanent or temporary) shall be permitted
within 200 feet of the nearest right-of-way line of a designated parkway.
(Ord. 14-05, passed 7-22-14) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.23 ATTACHED BUSINESS SIGN.
   No sign attached to a building or structure within 200 feet of any right-of-
way line of a designated parkway shall exceed 80 square feet in area on any
facade visible from a designated parkway at any angle or view; nor exceed the
size limitations imposed by the district in which it is located or as required
by the sign regulations (Article 11 of the Development Code for the City of St.
Matthews.)
(Ord. 14-05, passed 7-22-14) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal penalties.
      (1)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply
with any of their requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who
violates that subchapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $25 nor more than $50. Each day
during which such violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense for
which a separate fine may be imposed.
      (2)   The owner or tenant of any building or structure, premises or part
thereof, any architect, builder, contractor agent or other, person who commits,
participates in, or maintains such violation may be found guilty of a separate
offense and suffer the penalties herein provided.
   (B)   Civil penalties. Any violation of this chapter shall subject the
offender to a civil penalty in an amount equal to the minimum fine prescribed
by division (A) of this section. Such civil penalty may be recovered by the
city in a civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender does not pay the
penalty within 20 days after the offender has been cited for the violation. The
civil penalty may be used as an alternative to, or in conjunction with, the
criminal penalties authorized in division (A) of this section.
(Ord. 14-05, passed 7-22-14)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Schedule
         
I.   ANNEXATIONS
         
II.   DEDICATIONS
         
III.   FRANCHISES
         
IV.   PURCHASE AND SALE OF REAL ESTATE
         
V.   VACATIONS
         
VI.   ZONING CHANGES
         
VII.   INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENTS
SCHEDULE I. ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1        3-22-50     A certain tract of land in Jefferson County contiguous to
                     the city.
4        3-27-50     Reenacting ordinance No. 1, series 50.
5        4-26-50     Ordinance amends ordinance No. 1, by excluding certain
                     property from its scope.
6        4-26-50     Extension of city boundaries beginning at Frankfort
                     Avenue.
                     Property bordering on the City of Recklawn; Property in
7        1-3-51      Druid Hills; Nanz subdivision; City of Bellewood and other
                     properties.
                     Correcting the boundary lines of Bonniewood subdivision;
9        4-16-51     the proposed City of Cherrywood; and the north line of the
                     City of Cherrywood.
                     Correcting boundaries with the Bonniewood subdivision;
9        4-16-51     proposed City of Cherrywood; and the north line of
                     Bellewood subdivision.
13       6-5-51      Ordinance repealing Ordinance 4, series 1951 and
                     correcting the boundaries.
14       6-5-51      Annexing land starting at a point formed by the
                     intersection Westport Road and Chenoweth Lane.
2        6-22-53     Certain land in Jefferson County contiguous to the city
                     border.
4        8-28-53     Certain land on the city's southern border.
5        8-28-53     Certain land on the city's eastern border.
6        9-29-53     Certain land on the city's eastern border starting at
                     Gilman Avenue.
7        9-29-53     Certain land on the city's northern and western
                     boundaries.
                     Certain land whose boundaries begin at the intersection of
8        9-29-53     the north line of Westport Road and the west line of St.
                     Matthews Avenue.
                     Certain land whose boundaries begin at the intersection of
9        9-29-53     the south line of Staebler Avenue and the east line of
                     Chenoweth Lane.
                     Land on the southeastern border of the city whose
10       9-29-53     boundaries begin at the intersection of the northern line
                     of Westport Road and the western line of St. Matthews
                     Avenue.
11       9-29-53     Extension of the city borders as extended by Ordinance 4,
                     series 1953.
                     Certain land on the city's eastern border which begins at
12       9-29-53     a point on the south line of the city's border 200 feet
                     west of St. Matthews Avenue.
14       11-10-53    Certain land on the city's western boundary.
15       11-10-53    Certain land on the city's southeastern border.
16       12-31-53    Certain land on the city's eastern border.
4        3-19-54     Certain land on the city's eastern and southern border.
                     Certain land whose boundaries begin at the intersection of
5        3-19-54     the north line of the Westport Road and the west line of
                     St. Matthews Avenue.
                     Certain land whose boundariesbegin at the southwest line
12       10-12-54    of Hubbards Lane and the north line of the L & N R.R.
                     right-of-way.
3        3-6-55      Certain land whose boundariesbegin at the southwest corner
                     of Willis Avenue.
4        3-8-55      Certain land whose boundariesbegin at a point on the east
                     line of Bauer Avenue.
7        8-14-56     Certain land on the city'ssouthern border.
9        10-9-56     Certain land whose boundaries begin at a point on the
                     south line of Norbourne Blvd.
                     Certain land whose boundaries begin at the intersection of
10       10-23-56    the southwestern corner of Westport Road and St. Matthews
                     Avenue.
                     Certain land whose boundaries begin at the intersection of
l        1-22-57     St. Matthews Avenue and the north line of Shelbyville
                     Road.
2        1-22-57     Certain land whose boundaries begin at the north line of
                     Frankfort Avenue.
                     Certain land whose boundaries begin at the eastern line of
7        6-11-57     Chenoweth Lane and the southeastern line of Staebler
                     Avenue.
8        6-11-57     Certain land whose boundaries begin at the southwest line
                     of St. Matthews Avenue.
10       6-25-57     Certain land whose boundaries begin at the northwest
                     corner of Westport Road and Hubbards Lane.
13       8-27-57     Certain land whose boundaries begin at a point on the
                     western line of St. Matthews Avenue.
21       1-27-59     Certain land whose boundaries begin at a point on the
                     north line of Frankfort Avenue.
                     Certain land whose boundaries begin at the intersection of
7        1-12-60     the city's southern boundary and the east line of
                     Breckenridge Lane.
15       1-12-60     Certain land whose boundaries begin at the northwest
                     corner of Colonial Village Subdivision.
2        1-6-60      Certain land whose boundaries begin at the north line of
                     Shelbyville Road and the southeast corner of the city.
11       3-28-61     Certain land whose boundaries begin at the northern line
                     of La Grange Road.
1        4-11-61     Certain land whose boundaries begin at the intersection of
                     the eastern line of Cherrywood Road.
2        - -61       Certain land whose boundaries begin at the easterly line
                     of Hubbards Lane.
3        - -61       Certain land including the remainder of the Humphrey
                     tract.
4        - -61       Certain land whose boundaries begin at the easterly line
                     of Hubbards Lane.
14       10-24-61    Certain land whose boundaries begin at a point on the
                     easterly line of Breckenridge Lane.
                     Certain land whose boundaries begin at a point on the
15       - -61       southwest line of Browns Lane and the corner of the City
                     of Springlee.
6        6-4-62      Certain land whose boundaries begin at the intersection of
                     Breckenridge Lane and Hillsboro Road.
6        7-9-63      Certain land embracing Timbrook Subdivision.
20       10-29-63    Certain land on the southerly line of La Grange Road.
24       1-14-64     Certain land near the border of the City of Maryhill.
7        - -64       Certain land on the western line of Breckenridge Lane.
13       9-22-64     Certain land whose boundaries begin at the intersection of
                     Fenley Avenue and Westport Road.
4        - -65       Certain land whose boundaries begin at the intersection of
                     the city's western boundary and the Watterson Expressway.
                     Certain land whose boundaries series 60 begin at a point
5,       11-19-65    of intersection of the eastern border of the city and the
                     south line of Shelbyville Road.
7        4-24-65     Certain land whose boundaries begin at the western line of
                     Breckenridge Lane.
8        - -65       Certain land whose boundaries begin at the western line of
                     Breckenridge Lane.
21       9-14-65     Certain land whose boundaries begin at the southerly line
                     of Darbrook Road.
                     Certain land whose boundaries begin at the intersection of
24       - -65       the city's western border and the southwestern line of the
                     Watterson Expressway.
27       1-11-66     Certain land on the southerly line of Lyndon Lane.
                     Certain land whose boundaries Series 62 begin at the
7,       2-8-66      intersection of the western line of Breckenridge Lane and
                     the southeastern line of Hillsboro Road.
18       10-25-66    Certain land whose boundaries begin at the intersection of
                     Westport Road and Fenley Avenue.
23       - -67       Certain land on the city's western border shared with the
                     Watterson Expressway and the City of Beechwood Village.
5        3-24-70     Certain land embracing the R.W. Hite Tract.
                     Certain land whose boundaries begin at the intersection of
18       7-28-70     Westport Road and the western line of the Revised Westview
                     Subdivision.
                     Certain land whose boundaries begin at the intersection of
10       - -72       Westport Road and the east lineof the Watterson
                     Expressway.
                     Certain land whose boundaries begin at the intersection of
11       8-22-72     the south line of Westport Road and the east line of the
                     Watterson Expressway.
                     Certain land whose boundaries begin at the intersection of
12       - -72       the south line of Lake Avenue and the easterly line of
                     Washburn Avenue.
6        3-27-73     Certain land whose boundaries begin at the intersection of
                     the southeast corner of Boone Highway and La Grange Road.
                     Certain land whose boundaries begin at the intersection of
2        1-28-75     the eastern line of Boone Highway and the north line of
                     Shelbyville Road.
                     Certain land whose boundaries begin at the intersection of
1        1-28-75     the eastern line of Boone Highway and the north line of
                     Shelbyville Road.
15       8-24-76     Certain land on the city's western border near
                     Breckenridge Lane.
00-06    6-27-00     Annexing the entire area of the City of Broad Fields.
00-07    6-27-00     Annexing the entire area of the City of Plymouth Village.
00-08    8-22-00     Annexing the entire area of the City of Springlee.
00-09    8-25-00     Annexing the entire area of the City of Cherrywood
                     Village.
00-11    8-25-00     Annexing the entire area of the City of Fairmeade.
13-07    12-10-13    Requesting the approval of the Louisville/Jefferson County
                     Metro Council of the annexation of Springwood Subdivision.
14-01    4-8-14      Annexing Springwood Subdivision.
14-07    7-22-14     Authorizing a vote to determine voters of City of Richlawn
                     desire to be annexed.
14-10    8-12-14     Requesting approval of the Louisville/Jefferson County
                     Metro Council of the annexation of the city of Richlawn.
                     Requesting approval of the Louisville/Jefferson County
14-13    11-13-14    Metro Council of the annexation of the property known as
                     416 Springwood Lane, 4095 and 4125 Massie Avenue.
14-12    12-19-14    Annexing Property known as 416 Springwood Lane, 4095
                     Massie Avenue and 4125 Massie Avenue.
17-06    4-25-17     Annexing certain sections of Ormond and Flint Road.
22-07    10-25-22    Annexing the Twinbrook Subdivision.
                    
 
SCHEDULE II. DEDICATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
5        4-8-58      Dedication of Thiesman Lane.
6        4-8-58      Dedication of Oechsli Avenue from Thiesman Lane west one
                     block to an unnamed street.
7        8-8-58      A certain strip of land 20 feet wide ceded by Sears,
                     Roebuck and Co.
15       10-14-58    A 30 foot wide avenue on the plat of Excella Place.
17       10-14-58    Accepting the dedication of Oechsli Avenue as a public way
                     on Excella Place Subdivision.
Res.     8-11-70     Two tracts which are an extension of Dutchman's Lane.
2        2-8-77      Correcting the dedication of 2 tracts on Lyndon Way and
                     Sears Avenue.
17-07    6-13-17     Accepting the public dedication of a portion of Stonehenge
                     Drive.
18-03    4-24-18     Accepting the public dedication of Blenheim Court.
                    
 
SCHEDULE III. FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
6        - -51       Franchise for erecting utility poles and laying gas pipes.
19       12-14-54    Franchise for erecting utility poles and laying gas lines.
5        2-11-75     Franchise for erecting utility poles and laying gas lines.
9        11-13-79    Franchise to construct, maintain, and operate a community
                     antenna cable television system.
                    
 
SCHEDULE IV. PURCHASE AND SALE OF REAL ESTATE
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2        1-10-67     Acquisition of Lots 121, 122, 123, 124, and 125, as shown
                     on plat of Excella Place, Subdivision Book 6, page 67.
                     Acquisition of Lots 2, 4, 14, 16, 24, 26, 28, 30, 32, and
5        1-10-67     34 of Block 4; Lots l, 17, 21, 31, and 33 of Block 5; Lot
                     5 of Block 12; Lots 6 and 8 of Block 13, all of Warwick
                     Village Subdivision.
                     Selling and conveying of Lots 121, 122, 123, 124, and 125
Res.     5-2-67      as shown on the plat of Excella Place to the St. Matthews
                     Volunteer Fire Association.
                     Purchase of land from Dr. Earl W. Roles, Lot 15 and the
Res.     1-27-70     northwestwardly 25 feet of Lot 176, Block 12 of Southern
                     Addition of Warwick Villa.
 
SCHEDULE V. VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.           Date Passed Description
                               Vacating that portion of the 20-foot, unnamed
19                 9-10-63     alley which is in back of Lots 12, 13, and 14 of
                               Parkside Subdivision, Section 3.
3                  2- -66      Vacating part of a public alley, 10 feet in
                               width, as shown and Book 1, page 140.
                               Vacating so much of a public alley 20 feet wide,
7                  2-4-67      as shown on the plat of Parkside Subdivision,
                               Section 3, recorded in Plat and Subdivision Book
                               9, page 97.
18                 6-24-69     Vacating a public way known as King Arthur Lane
                               and vacating a public way known as Lyndon Court.
                               Vacating a portion of a public way described in
21                 6-24-69     a deed dated June 29, 1965 and recorded in Deed
                               Book 3981, page 512.
                               Vacating that portion of Boone Highway,
                               beginning at its terminal with the southeasterly
5                  3-13-73     side of La Grange Road, and thence extending
                               southerly to its junction with the northwesterly
                               line of South Park Place.
                               Vacating a portion of North Central Avenue, Lake
22                 12-18-73    Avenue, Tennessee Avenue, Kentucky Avenue, and
                               South Central Avenue and all alleys within said
                               area.
7                  8-13-74     Vacating portions of Kentucky Avenue and Warwick
                               Avenue.
                               Vacating a portion of an alley parallel to
12                 11-13-79    Harris Place and perpendicular to La Grange
                               Road.
                               Vacating a portion of a roadway sometimes known
01-10              9-25-01     as Heady Avenue, between Shelbyville Road and
                               North Church Way.
                               Vacating an unimproved section of Northwest
                               Avenue from its southwest intersection with
06-06              11-14-06    Fenley Avenue running 174.50 feet southwest to a
                               20-foot unimproved alley, containing 8,725
                               square feet.
19-02              3-12-19     Vacating a portion of Thompson Avenue which lies
                               between 3434 and 3500 Grandview Avenue.
19-09              8-13-19     Vacating portion of Springswood Lane that is
                               unbuilt at its terminus.
20-02              1-28-20     Closure of an unnamed alley located at 4106
                               Hycliffe Avenue.
22-05              8-23-22     Closure of Chenoweth Court.
                               Closure of a 15-foot-wide portion of Thompson
23-05, Series 2023 9-26-23     Avenue alley for a private driveway use adjacent
                               to 3629 Warner Avenue.
                              
 
SCHEDULE VI. ZONING CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
7    3-22-  Rezoning 2 parcels of land from “A" One Family District to D-4 Commercial
     66     District, and granting special uses for access and parking.
28   11-22- Granting a special use for a Fire House on Lyndon Way.
     66
29   11-22- Granting a special use for the construction and operation of a medical
     66     hospital and necessary auxiliary buildings.
     10-14- Rezoning certain property from C-2 Office District and D-3 Commercial
27   69     District to C-3 Business District, and amending Ordinance No. 22, Series
            1969.
01-  5-8-01 Rezoning certain property located at 166 Thierman Lane, containing .3
04          acres, from R-7 Multi-Family Residential to OR-3 Office/Residential.
01-         Rezoning certain property located at 4156 Shelbyville Road and 110 South
11   - -    Hubbards Lane, containing approximately .321 acres, from OR-3 Office/
            Residential to C-2 Commercial.
02-  3-12-  Rezoning certain property located at 4030 Shelbyville Road and 100, 104 and
02   02     106 S. Sherrin Avenue, containing approximately .427 acres, from OR-
            3 Office Residential to C-1 Commercial.
02-         Amending binding elements in reference to certain property, located at 4650
01   4-9-02 Bowling Boulevard, containing 5.181 acres, approving revised General
            District and Detailed District Development Plans.
03-  1-28-  Rezoning (and requesting landscaping waiver for) certain property located
02   03     at 142 Chenoweth Lane, containing approximately .32 acres, from R-7 Multi-
            Family Residential to C-1 Commercial.
            Rezoning (and requesting landscaping waiver and parking variance for)
03-  7-22-  certain property conveyed to Westport Gardens, LLC, also known as Tract 1
08   03     and part of Tract 2, respectively containing 1.279 and 4.76 acres, from R-
            7 Multi-Family residential to OR-3 Office/Residential.
03-  9-28-  Approving revised Detailed District Redevelopment Plan, parking waiver and
09   03     landscape waiver for certain property located at 143 Thierman Lane.
05-  11-22- Rezoning certain property located at 220 Ridgeway Avenue, containing .8
04   05     acres, from R-5, Single Family residential to C-1 Commercial.
07-  6-26-  Rezoning commercial property located at 1102 Lyndon Land, containing 13.64
04   07     acres, from C-1 Commercial to C-2 Commercial.
07-  8-14-  Rezoning property located at 4 Rudy Lane, from R-3, Single Family
05   07     Residential to R-5 Single Family Residential.
09-  2-24-  Rezoning property located at 100 Cornell Place, containing 0.25 acre, from
01   09     R-4 Single Family Residential to OR-1 Office Residential.
09-  8-3-09 Rezoning property located at 3801 Frankfort Avenue, containing 0.15 acre,
04          from M-2 Industrial to C-2 Commerical.
10-  6-22-  Rezoning property located at 111R Fairfax Avenue, containing 0.1 acre, from
03   10     OR-3 Office/Residential to C-1 Commercial.
11-  10-25- Rezoning property located at 4315 N. Church Way from OR-3 to C-2.
05   11
14-  9-23-  Rezoning property located at 164 Thierman Lane from R-7 Residential to OR-
11   14     3 Office/Residential.
17-  3-28-  Rezoning property located at 3939 Shelbyville Road and 124 Saint Matthews
04   17     Avenue, containing 1.36 acres, from C-1 to C-2.
17-  9-26-  Rezoning property located at 158 Thierman from R-6 to OR-1.
11   17
17-  12-12- Rezoning property located at 704 Breckenridge Lane from R-5 to OR-1.
13   17
18-  4-10-  Rezoning property located at 107, 111R, and 113 Fairfax Avenue, containing
01   18     0.7 acres from OR-3 to C-1.
18-  8-10-  Rezoning property located at 115 Fairfax Avenue containing 0.21 acres from
02   18     OR-3 to C-1.
19-  3-12-  Rezoning property located at 3930, 3934, and 3936 Massie Avenue, from R-
03   19     4 to R-6.
19-  11-26- Rezoning property located at 400 and 1000 Mallard Creek Road, containing
14   19     2.09 acres from OR-3 to C-2.
22-  12-13- Rezoning property located at 236 and 238 Chenoweth Lane from R-5 and R-7 to
08   22     R-7.
           
 
SCHEDULE VII. INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Approving a joint and cooperative program for self-
87-04    5-26-87     insurance and the investment of public funds among various
                     local governments and other public agencies.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS CODE SEC.
KRS                          CODE SEC.
6.955 - 6.975             33.18
Ch. 13A                      75.07,
                             75.11
15.440                       72.05
15.520                       32.04
17.157 (2)                   70.99(V)
18A.225                      115.04
41.240                       33.28
41.240(4)                    33.19
42.450 - 42.495              33.18
Ch. 44                       70.20
Ch. 45A                      37.26
Ch. 56                       37.26
Ch. 61                       31.02
61.080                       36.017
61.090                       36.018
61.252                       36.016
                             70.01,
61.362                       73.20,
                             116.01
61.810                       36.018,
                             36.086
61.815                       36.018
61.870 - 61.882              31.15
                             36.090,
61.870 - 61.884              37.27,
                             71.51
61.870                       37.01
61.870(1)                    37.01
61.870(1)(h)                 37.01
61.870(10)                   37.15
61.872(1)                    37.15
61.872(2)                    37.15
61.872(4)                    37.16,
                             37.17
61.872(5)                    37.18
61.874(1)                    37.15
61.874(1) - (3)              37.22
61.874(3), (4)               37.23
61.874(5)                    37.24
61.874(6)                    37.25
61.878                       37.01,
                             37.26
61.878(1)                    37.26
61.880                       37.19
61.880(1)                    37.26
61.884                       37.21
Ch. 65                    94.03
65.003                       36.003
                             38.01,
65.8801 - 65.8839            38.02,
                             38.14
65.8815(5)                   38.05
65.8840                      94.01,
                             94.03
66.480                       33.21,
                             33.28
66.480(1)(a)                 33.28
66.480(1)(b)                 33.28
66.480(1)(c)                 33.28
66.480(1)(d)                 33.28
66.480(1)(e)                 33.28
66.480(1)(f)                 33.28
66.480(1)(g)                 33.28
66.480(1)(h)                 33.28
66.480(1)(i)                 33.28
66.480(1)(j)                 33.28
66.480(1)(k)                 33.28
66.480(1)(l)                 33.28
66.480(2)                    33.28
66.480(2)(a)                 33.29
66.480(2)(b)                 33.29
66.480(2)(d) (1)             33.29
67.753                       110.24
67.750 - 67.795              110.35
Ch. 72                       72.04
78.510 - 78.852              34.03(F)
78.530 (3)                   34.03(F)
78.531 (1), (2)              34.03(G)
82.082                       36.003,
                             94.01
82.625                       71.75
83A.040                      30.02(H)
83A.040(1)                   30.01
83A.045(1)(b)                31.04
83A.065                      31.16,
                             78.99
83A.080                      36.04
83A.085                      31.15
83A.087                      31.16
83A.130(3)                   30.02(A)
83A.130(4)                   30.02(B)
83A.130(5)                   30.02(C)
83A.130(6)                   30.02(D)
83A.130(7)                   30.02(E)
83A.130(8)                   30.02(F)
83A.130(9)                   30.02(G)
83A.130(10)                  30.02(H)
83A.130(11)                  31.01,
                             31.02
83A.130(12)                  31.03(A)
83A.130(13)                  31.03(B)
83A.170                      30.01
91A.060                      33.21
91A.080                      110.08,
                             115.08
91A.080(12)                  115.01
92.330                       110.07,
                             110.31
95.019                       32.01
99.605                       153.01
100.401 - 100.417            152.51
100.413                      152.55
100.415                      152.56
Ch. 118                      31.04
131.010(6)                   115.05
132.452                      153.01
136.120                      110.08
136.602                      110.08
Ch. 154                      37.26
154.20-250 - 154.20-284      110.08
177.9771                     75.09
177.9771(4)(a) - (d)         75.09
186.020                      71.75
186.045                      75.06
186.050                      75.04
186.050 (3) - (14)           75.06
186.050 (3) (b)              75.04
186.050 (4)                  75.04
186.050 (9)                  75.04
186.256                      71.02
186.400 - 186.640            71.01
186.565                      71.40
186.650                      70.01
Ch. 189                      73.23
189.010                      71.46
189.010 (1)                  70.01 
189.010 (3)                  70.01 
189.010 (6)                  70.01 
189.010 (12)                 70.01 
189.010 (13)                 70.01 
189.010 (14)                 70.01 
189.010 (15)                 70.01 
189.010 (16)                 70.01 
189.010 (17)                 70.01 
189.010 (18)                 70.01 
189.010 (19) - (22)          72.14 (F)
189.010 (19)                 70.01 
189.010(19)(b)(8)            70.01 
189.010 (21)                 70.01 
189.010 (22)                 70.01 
189.010 (23)                 70.01
189.011                      70.01 
189.011 (2)                  75.02
189.020                      72.01
189.030                      72.02
189.040                      72.03
189.043                      72.06
189.045                      70.22
189.050                      72.07
189.055                      72.08
189.060                      72.09
189.070                      72.10
189.080                      72.11
189.090                      72.12
189.100                      72.13
189.110                      72.14
189.130                      72.18
189.140                      72.15
189.150                      72.19
189.160                      72.21
189.190                      72.23
189.190 (5)                  72.24
189.200                      72.25
189.205                      72.26
189.210                      72.27
189.212                      75.09
189.221                      75.03
189.221(6)                   75.09
189.222                      75.09,
                             75.12
189.222(1) - (5), (7) - (10) 75.04
189.222(11)                  75.03
189.223                      75.05
189.224                      70.06
189.227                      75.07
189.228                      75.08
189.230                      75.09
189.230(4)                   75.03
189.231                      70.03
189.260                      75.06
189.265                      70.01,
                             75.10
189.269                      75.11
189.270(1) - (11)            75.11
189.271(1)                   75.12
189.280(1)                   75.13
189.285                      70.01,
                             73.01
189.286                      73.23
189.286(3)(c)                73.22,
                             73.23
189.287                      73.05
189.290                      71.02
189.300                      71.03
189.310                      71.04
189.330                      71.09
189.335                      70.04
189.336                      70.21
189.337                      70.01,
                             74.05 (D)
189.337 (3)                  70.05
189.338                      70.20
189.340 (1)                  71.10
189.340 (2)                  71.10
189.340 (3)                  71.10
189.340 (4)                  71.10
189.340 (5)                  71.10
189.340 (6)                  71.11
189.340 (7)                  71.11
189.340 (8)                  71.11
189.340(9)                   71.12
189.345                      71.45
189.350                      71.14
189.360                      71.16
189.370                      71.17
189.375                      71.18
189.380                      71.19
189.390                      71.20
189.390 (1) (a)              70.01
189.390(1) (b)               70.01
189.390(1) (c)               70.01
189.390(4)(a)1. through 16.  71.20
189.392                      71.22
189.393                      70.12
189.396                      70.07
189.400                      71.23
189.410                      71.24
189.430 (1)                  71.25
189.430 (2)                  71.25
189.430 (3)                  71.26
189.440                      71.28
189.450                      71.30,
                             78.44
189.470                      71.31
189.480                      71.32
189.500                      71.36
189.503                      71.37
189.505                      71.37
189.510                      71.38
189.520                      71.40
189.520 (1)                  71.39
189.520 (2)                  71.39
189.520 (3)                  71.39
189.530                      71.41
189.550                      71.43
189.560                      71.42
189.565                      71.44
189.570 (1)                  74.01
189.570 (2)                  74.02
189.570 (3)                  74.03
189.570 (4)                  74.04
189.570 (5)                  74.05
189.570 (6)                  74.06
189.570 (7)                  74.07,
                             74.17
189.570 (9)                  74.16
189.570 (12), (13)           74.15
189.570 (16)                 74.14
189.570 (17), (18)           74.13
189.570(21)                  74.18,
                             116.11
189.570 (21), (22)           74.12
189.570 (23)                 74.06
189.570 (24)                 74.17
189.575                      74.08
189.580                      71.52
189.635                      71.51
189.635(3) - (6)             71.51
189.635(7)                   71.51
189.635(9)                   71.51
189.670                      75.01
                             70.30,
189.700                      71.70,
                             73.20
189.705                      70.31
189.710                      70.32
189.715                      70.33
189.720                      70.34
189.725                      70.35
189.725(12)                  70.35
189.751                      70.40
189.751 (1)                  70.01
189.810                      71.08
189.810 (1)                  70.01
189.810 (2)                  70.01
189.820                      73.22
189.820 (1)                  72.30
189.820 (2)                  72.31
189.820 (3)                  72.32
189.820(4)                   72.30,
                             72.31
189.830                      72.33
189.860                      70.01
189.860 (2)                  71.34
189.910                      70.01,
                             71.46
                             70.01,
189.920                      71.08,
                             72.04
189.920(3)                   32.01
189.920(4)                   71.46
189.930 (1)                  71.05
189.930 (2)                  71.05
189.930 (3)                  71.06
189.930 (4)                  71.07
189.940                      71.08,
                             72.04
189.950                      72.05
189.960                      71.46
189.990(5)                   71.17 (C)
189.2226                     75.09
189.2717                     75.11
198B.990                     152.01
Ch. 224                      72.15
224.1-010(30)(a)             71.30
224.43-315                   71.30
Ch. 227                      93.37
Chs. 241 - 244               31.15,
                             111.11
241.010(53)                  111.15
241.100                      31.17
241.160                      31.15 -
                             31.17
241.170(2)                   31.17
241.190                      31.17
                             31.15,
                             111.01,
Ch. 243                      111.05,
                             111.20,
                             111.21,
                             111.99
243.030                      111.23
243.070                      111.23
243.260                      111.13
243.270                      111.13
243.290                      111.13
Ch. 244                      31.15,
                             111.99
244.290                      111.24
Ch. 271                      31.16
Ch. 281A                     70.01
281A.010                     71.42
Ch. 304                      115.04
304.39-080                   73.23
304.39-110                   72.05
367.650 - 367.670            116.01
                             70.40,
376.275                      71.30,
                             78.99
Ch. 424                      33.18
424.220                      33.18
431.005                      31.16
431.015                      31.16
446.010                      10.04
446.010(33)                  78.10(C)
                             
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
ORD. NO. DATE PASSED CODE SEC.
ORD. NO.             DATE PASSED CODE SEC.
11                   5-8-51      75.31
                                 111.01,
                                 111.04 -
                                 111.07,
                                 111.09 -
6                    5-11-54     111.11,
                                 111.13 -
                                 111.15,
                                 111.17 -
                                 111.22,
                                 111.24
                                 70.01 (BBB),
                                 70.10,
                                 70.11,
                                 70.13,
                                 70.23 -
                                 70.25,
                                 70.50,
                                 70.60,
                                 71.01,
                                 71.13,
                                 71.15,
                                 71.27,
                                 71.29,
                                 71.35,
                                 71.60,
15                   10-21-54    71.61,
                                 72.16,
                                 72.17,
                                 72.20,
                                 74.09 -
                                 74.11,
                                 75.20 -
                                 75.28,
                                 75.30,
                                 77.01 -
                                 77.10,
                                 77.99,
                                 78.01,
                                 78.02,
                                 78.06,
                                 78.07
21                   10-21-54    78.03,
                                 78.08
                                 110.01 -
3                    3-19-56     110.03,
                                 110.05 -
                                 110.07
11                   11-27-56    75.32
3                    1-22-57     111.30 -
                                 111.35
4                    2-13-57     110.03
2                    3-11-58     110.03
8                    4-22-58     31.05
2                    3-10-59     110.03
3                    2-23-60     78.21
4                    3-8-60      78.22
10                   7-19-60     31.05
10                   9-11-62     78.23
8                    5-26-64     50.01,
                                 50.99
                                 93.01,
11                   5-26-64     93.02,
                                 93.99
9                    4-22-65     91.99
10                   8-20-68     152.10,
                                 152.11
18                   9-10-68     78.24
4                    1-28-69     152.14,
                                 152.15
6                    2-11-69     152.40 -
                                 152.43
30                   11-11-69    78.25
32                   12-9-69     78.26
                                 93.10 -
6                    3-24-70     93.13,
                                 93.99
                                 93.20 -
14                   4-28-70     93.22,
                                 93.99
31                   10-27-70    78.39
                                 152.30,
25                   11-10-70    152.31,
                                 152.33
4                    4-27-71     152.12
16                   11-9-71     78.27
3                    4-11-72     78.28
                                 112.01 -
8                    6-13-72     112.03,
                                 112.99
2                    2-13-73     78.29
8                    4-24-73     152.20
9                    4-24-73     110.03,
                                 110.04
1                    1-8-74      152.20
9                    10-22-74    78.31
9                    3-25-75     152.02 -
                                 152.04
12                   5-27-75     78.33
13                   6-10-75     78.32
14                   6-24-75     75.33
23                   9-23-75     78.34
24                   10-14-75    111.40
1                    1-13-76     78.35
4                    1-27-76     78.36
8                    5-11-76     70.50
11                   5-11-76     78.37
16                   8-10-76     78.38
8                    4-26-77     110.03
20                   11-20-77     
                                 78.40
2                    2-14-78     111.15
6                    6-12-79     113.01 -
                                 113.99
7                    7-10-79      
                                 12.01
9                    11-13-79    T.S.O. III
12                   12-29-79    110.03
12                   11-13-79    T.S.O. V
2                    1-22-80     34.01
10                   6-24-80     74.05
15                   8-26-80     70.05
19                   10-28-80    34.02
7                    4-14-81     111.23,
                                 111.99
22                   12-12-81    33.03
6                    7-27-82     111.24
20                   1-11-83     78.09
                                 111.25,
3-1984               2-14-84     111.40,
                                 111.99
12, 1984             8-28-84     Ch. 35
                                 92.20 -
11, 1985             7-23-85     92.22,
                                 92.99(C)
12, 1985             7-23-85     78.10
18, 1985             11-25-85    152.01
                                 110.20 -
3, 1986              - -86       110.35,
                                 110.99
12, 1986             8-12-86     31.05
16, 1986             10-28-86    95.01
87-01                1-27-87     34.03
87-02                2-10-87     78.36
87-04                5-26-87     T.S.O. VII
87-8                 5-26-87     78.41
88-03                5-10-88     Ch. 91
89-02                2-14-89     Adopting Ordinance
89-03                2-14-89     30.01,
                                 30.02
89-04                2-14-89     31.01 -
                                 31.04
89-05                2-14-89     31.15
89-10                6-13-89     78.42
                                 114.01,
89-12                7-25-89     114.02,
                                 114.99
89-22                12-26-89    71.42(G),
                                 70.99(HH)
90-01                2-27-90     31.02(B)
90-05                - -90       78.43
90-10                8-28-90     78.21
90-12                11-27-90    Ch. 153
91-01                2-26-91     31.04
91-03                6-11-91     78.21
93-01                3-9-93      78.09
93-08                11-9-93     50.04
                                 111.15,
93-09                11-27-93    111.23 -
                                 111.25
94-01                3-8-94      31.05
                                 36.001 -
                                 36.004,
                                 36.015,
                                 36.016,
                                 36.019 -
                                 36.022,
94-10                11-22-94    36.026,
                                 36.027,
                                 36.045 -
                                 36.050,
                                 36.065,
                                 36.080 -
                                 36.090,
                                 36.999
                                 154.01 -
95-06                7-25-95     154.06,
                                 154.99
96-02                2-27-96     31.02
                                 90.01 -
96-04                5-28-96     90.05,
                                 90.99
98-02                1-27-98     31.16
98-04                3-24-98     78.04
98-09                5-26-98     78.03
99-05                8-24-99     31.15
99-19                8-24-99     78.44
00-06                6-27-00     T.S.O. I
00-07                6-27-00     T.S.O. I
00-08                8-22-00     T.S.O. I
00-09                8-25-00     T.S.O. I
00-11                8-25-00     T.S.O. I
01-04                5-8-01      T.S.O. VI
01-08                6-26-01     31.15
01-10                9-25-01     T.S.O. VI
01-11                - -         T.S.O. VI
02-01                4-9-02      T.S.O. VI
02-02                3-12-02     T.S.O. VI
03-02                1-28-03     T.S.O. VI
03-08                7-22-03     T.S.O. VI
03-09                9-28-03     T.S.O. VI
                                 116.01 -
04-03                7-27-04     116.13,
                                 116.98,
                                 116.99
04-05                10-12-04    111.15
                                 111.25,
05-03                8-23-05     111.40,
                                 111.99
05-04                11-22-05    T.S.O. VI
06-06                11-28-06    T.S.O. V
07-04                6-26-07     T.S.O. VI
07-05                8-14-07     T.S.O. VI
                                 96.01 -
08-03                7-22-08     96.09,
                                 96.99
09-01                2-24-09     T.S.O. VI
09-04                8-3-09      T.S.O. VI
10-03                6-22-10     T.S.O. VI
                                 93.35 -
11-04                8-9-11      93.40,
                                 93.99
11-05                10-25-11    T.S.O. VI
12-08                6-26-12     31.17
                                 111.01,
                                 111.04 -
                                 111.07,
                                 111.09 -
                                 111.11,
                                 111.13 -
13-05                10-22-13    111.15,
                                 111.17 -
                                 111.25,
                                 111.30 -
                                 111.35,
                                 111.40,
                                 111.99
13-07                12-10-13    T.S.O. I
14-01                4-8-14      T.S.O. I
                                 154.20 -
14-05                7-22-14     154.23,
                                 154.99
                                 154.01 -
14-06                7-22-14     154.06,
                                 154.99
14-07                7-22-14     T.S.O. I
                                 116.25 -
                                 116.27,
14-09                9-23-14     116.29 -
                                 116.32,
                                 116.34,
                                 116.99
14-10                8-12-14     T.S.O. I
14-11                9-23-14     T.S.O. I
14-12                12-19-14    T.S.O. I
14-13                11-13-14    T.S.O. I
15-03                9-8-15      T.S.O. VI
16-01                2-23-16     T.S.O. VI
16-02                4-26-16     T.S.O. VI
16-03                5-24-16     T.S.O. III
16-05                6-28-16     T.S.O. III
                                 111.15,
16-06                7-26-16     111.23,
                                 111.24,
                                 111.40
                                 110.03,
16-07                7-26-16     110.04,
                                 110.07,
                                 110.31
16-08                8-23-16     T.S.O. VI
                                 152.50 -
16-09                9-13-16     152.57,
                                 152.99
16-10                9-13-16     31.16
16-13                - -16       150.01
17-01                1-24-17     T.S.O. I
                                 92.01 -
                                 92.03,
                                 92.10 -
17-02                2-14-17     92.12,
                                 92.15 -
                                 92.17,
                                 92.99
                                 78.02 -
17-03                2-28-17     78.04,
                                 78.99
17-04                3-28-17     T.S.O. VI
17-06                4-25-17     T.S.O. I
17-07                6-13-17     T.S.O. II
17-11                9-26-17     T.S.O. VI
17-13                12-12-17    T.S.O. VI
18-01                4-10-18     T.S.O. VI
18-02                4-10-18     T.S.O. VI
18-03                4-24-18     T.S.O. II
18-05                - -18       154.02
18-07                8-28-18     31.05
18-09                9-25-18     92.04
                                 110.01 -
                                 110.09,
18-10                11-27-18    110.20 -
                                 110.35,
                                 110.99
19-01                4-23-19     31.05
19-02                3-12-19     T.S.O. V
19-03                3-12-19     T.S.O. VI
19-04                3-12-19     115.01 -
                                 115.08
19-05                4-9-19      50.01
19-06                11-12-19    94.01 -
                                 94.03
19-09                8-13-19     T.S.O. V
19-11                9-10-19     33.15 -
                                 33.33
19-12                - -         33.01
19-13                11-12-19    74.18
19-14                11-26-19    T.S.O. VI
20-02                1-28-20     T.S.O. V
                                 73.20 -
20-06                8-11-20     73.23,
                                 73.99
                                 36.001 -
                                 36.004,
                                 36.015 -
                                 36.032,
20-08                9-22-20     36.045 -
                                 36.050,
                                 36.065,
                                 36.080 -
                                 36.090,
                                 36.999
                                 116.01,
                                 116.25,
21-01                1-12-21     116.27,
                                 116.28,
                                 116.33,
                                 116.35
21-02                1-12-21     74.18
                                 37.01,
21-05                7-27-21     37.15 -
                                 37.27
21-07                9-28-21     33.01
22-01                3-22-22     95.01
22-05                8-23-22     T.S.O. V
22-06                9-27-22     33.01
22-07                10-25-22    T.S.O. I
22-08                12-13-22    T.S.O. VI
23-01                4-11-23     34.15 -
                                 34.21
23-03, Series 2023   7-11-23     71.70 -
                                 71.75
23-04                8-8-23      95.01
23-05, Series 2023   9-26-23     T.S.O. V
23-06                9-26-23     33.01
01, Series 2024      2-27-24     32.01 -
                                 32.05
24-02                5-14-24     31.02
                                 152.01 -
                                 152.04,
                                 152.10 -
                                 152.12,
5-14-24, Series 2024 5-28-24     152.14,
                                 152.15,
                                 152.30,
                                 153.31,
                                 152.99
24-04                9-24-24     38.01 -
                                 38.17
24-07                9-24-24     33.01
                                
 
