ST. REGIS PARK, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-12 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 6, Series 2022-2023, passed 6-21-2023,
and
Res. 1, Series 2020, passed 10-6-2020; and
State legislation current through KRS Pamphlet 2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com 
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
Ordinance 8, Series 2000-2001
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF ST. REGIS PARK,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE.
   WHEREAS, the present general ordinances of the City of St. Regis Park are
incomplete and inadequate and the manner of arrangement, classification and
indexing thereof is insufficient to meet the immediate needs of the City; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the Commonwealth of Kentucky empower
and authorized the Legislative Body of this City to revise, amend, restate,
codify and to compile any existing ordinance or ordinances and all new
ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate the
ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, the legislative body of the City of St. Regis Park has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of
a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in book form;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Legislative Body of the City of St.
Regis Park that:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the City of St. Regis Park as herein
revised, amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of St. Regis Park."
   Section 2. The Code as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the following
titles:
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
               10.   General Provisions
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
               30.   Mayor-Council Plan
               31.   City Officials
               32.   City Council
               33.   Finance and Revenue
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION (Cont'd)
               34.   Public Records
               35.   Taxation
               36.   Code of Ethics
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
               50.   Garbage
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
               70.   Parking Regulations
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
               90.   Animals
               91.   Streets and Sidewalks
               92.   Nuisances
               93.   Fireworks; Fire Prevention
               94. Littering
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
             110.   General Licensing Provisions
             111.   Insurance Companies
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   [Reserved]
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
             150.   Building Regulations
             151.   Subdivision and Zoning Development
             152.   Binding Elements
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   Annexations
             II.   Franchise Agreements Interlocal Agreements
             III.   Interlocal Agreements
   Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in the
Code shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of the Code,
except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in part in the Code;
provided that such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty
incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of the Code, nor
shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes,
appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises
of granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements,
authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the
purchase or sale or real or personal property, granting or accepting easements
or plats, accepting dedications of land to public use, vacating or setting the
boundaries of streets or other public places nor shall such repeal affect any
other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not
contained in or covered by the Code.
   Section 4. The Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the City Legislative Body and the Clerk of the City of St.
Regis Park is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of the Code in the
Office of the City Clerk.
   Section 5. The Code shall be in full force and effect from and after its
date of passage, approval and publication as required by law. The Code shall be
presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the ordinance and all
provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein contained, and of the
date of passage, and that the same is properly signed, attested, recorded and
approved, and that any public hearings and notices thereof as required by law
have been given.
   First Reading:           2/6/01
   Second Reading:        4/3/01
   Passage and Adoption:     4/3/01
                                        /s/ Talbot Allen
                                       Talbott Allen, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ William Bohnert
William Bohnert, Clerk
                                       Votes in Favor     7
                                       Votes Opposed     0
Ordinance #6, Series 2013-2014
      ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF ST. REGIS PARK, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2013 S-5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of St.
Regis Park, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of St. Regis Park:
   Section 1. That the 2013 S-5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of St. Regis Park, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in full force from
and after its date of passage, approval, and publication as required by law.
Passed this 4th day of February ,2014.
Passed on First Reading         1/7/2014    
Adopted on Second Reading       2/4/2014
                                                /s/ Brandt Davis
                                                Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/
City Clerk
Ordinance #4, Series 2015-2016
      AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
OF THE CITY OF ST. REGIS PARK, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of St. Regis
Park, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of St. Regis Park:
   SECTION 1. That the 2015 S-6 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of St. Regis Park, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this 1st day of September ,2015.
Passed on First Reading         8/4/2015
Adopted on Second Reading          9/1/2015
                                                /s/ Brandt Davis
                                                Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/
City Clerk
Ordinance #3, Series 2016-2017
      AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
OF THE CITY OF ST. REGIS PARK, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2016 (S- 7) supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
St. Regis Park, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of St. Regis Park:
   SECTION 1. That the 2016 S-7 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of St. Regis Park, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed on First Reading         10/4/2016
Second Reading            11/1/2016
Passed and Approved            11/1/2016
                                                /s/ Brandt Davis
                                                Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/
City Clerk
                                                      Those in Favor : 7
                                                      Opposed: 0
Ordinance #6, Series 2018-2019
      AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
OF THE CITY OF ST. REGIS PARK, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2018 (S-8) supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
St. Regis Park, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of St. Regis Park:
   SECTION 1. That the 2018 S-8 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of St. Regis Park, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed on First Reading         2/5/2019    
Second Reading               3/5/2019
Passed and Approved         3/5/2019
                                                /s/ Brandt Davis
                                                Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/
City Clerk
                                                      Those in Favor : 7
                                                      Opposed: 0
Ordinance  6 , Series 2020
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE
   CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF ST. REGIS PARK, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2020 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of St.
Regis Park, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of St. Regis Park:
   SECTION 1. That the 2020 S-9 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of St. Regis Park, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety. This supplement contains
local legislation current through Ordinance 4, Series 2019, passed 12/3/2019.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval, and publication as required by law.
Passed this  2nd  day of  June  , 2020
Passed on First Reading    5/5/2020
Adopted on Second Reading    6/2/2020
                                                /s/ Brandt Davis, Mayor
                                                Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ William R. Hodapp  6/2/2020
City Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections shall be known and designated as the St.
Regis Park Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted. Code, title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code. (KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are components
of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be referred to
and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be referred to
and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state. (KRS446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS446.010(2))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code shall
denotethe City of St. Regis Park irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company or association. (KRS446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company or association. (KRS446.010(10))
   COUNCIL. The city legislative body. (KRS83A.010(5))
   COUNTY. Jefferson County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of  this state. (KRS446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat. (KRS446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor. (KRS83A.010(6))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States. (KRS446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
business trust, statutory trust, or limited liability company, includes all
those incorporated or formed by authority of any other state. (KRS446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest. (KRS446.010
(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council. (KRS91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Council member. (KRS83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, buffaloes or any
other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine or camelid
species. (KRS 446.010(25)
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive. (KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month. (KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of St. Regis Park, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes AFFIRMATION in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited partnerships. (KRS 446.010
(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers and other persons with similar authority to
make arrests. (KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships,
registered limited liability partnerships, joint stock companies and limited
liability companies. (KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education, the municipal, county, state
or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof, or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory. (KRS 446.010(39))
   SWORN. Includes AFFIRMED in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010(43))
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Such as exists when there is an unexpired part of a term
of office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the person elected or
appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, county, city or district, or otherwise. (KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with. (KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year. (KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things. (KRS
446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males. (KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council. (KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared. (KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to the meaning. (KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   (1)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order
of court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act,
event or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not
to be included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included,
unless it is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday or a day on which the public
office in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally
closed, in which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is
not one of the days just mentioned.
      (2)   When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less than seven
days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in
the computation.
   (B)   (1)   When an ordinance, regulation or order of court requires an act
to be done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the
day on which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in
computing the time.
      (2)   If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is
required to be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday or a day on
which the public office in which the act is required to be completed is
actually and legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none
of the days just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, a reasonable time or notice shall mean
the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority of officers or
other persons. (KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part,
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated shall be
deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances
until Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.37 should be used by the city to amend, add or repeal a chapter, section or
division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
word or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the
intention of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no
meaning can be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or
words was clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be
corrected, and the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will
conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same
effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as originally
published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed
1-1-80; Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for- word the same as the statute. Example: (KRS
83A.090) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85). If a KRS cite
is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text of the section, this
indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for further information.
Example:
   § 31.10 MAYOR.
         The executive authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised
by the Mayor.
      (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-80)
      Statutory reference:
         Powers and duties of the Mayor, see KRS 83A.130
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY COUNCIL
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
35.   TAXATION
      
36.   CODE OF ETHICS
      
37.   CITY POLICIES
      
38.   BOARDS, DEPARTMENTS, AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the “Mayor-
Council Plan.”
(KRS 83A.130(1))
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by other officers and employees as are provided for by statute or
city ordinance.
(KRS 83A.130(2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of seven members as prescribed by
ordinance. An ordinance amending the number of City Council members shall be:
      (1)   Enacted and filed with the County Clerk of any county or counties
in which the city is located by no later than the first Wednesday after the
first Monday in November of the year preceding the year in which the
legislative offices will appear on the ballot; and
      (2)   Crafted in such a manner that the amended number of City Council
members becomes effective January 1 of the year following the election of the
number of City Council members specified in the amending ordinance.
(KRS 83A.030(1))
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
   
31.04   Bond
Elected Officials
   
31.20   Election procedure
   
31.21   Mayor
   
31.22   Council members
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.35   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.36   City Clerk
   
31.37   City Treasurer
   
31.38   Citation Officer
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH.
   Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the discharge of duties
of his office, take the following oath: “I do solemnly swear (or affirm, as the
case may be) that I will support the Constitution of this Commonwealth, and the
Constitution of the United States, and be faithful and true to the Commonwealth
of Kentucky, so long as I continue a citizen thereof, and that I will
faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the office of           ,
according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or affirm) that, since the
adoption of the present Constitution, I, being a citizen of this United States,
have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this State, nor out of it,
nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel with deadly weapons,
nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor aided or assisted any
person thus offending, so help me God,” as established by Section 228 of the
Kentucky Constitution.
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   City Council shall establish the compensation of every elected city
officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in which the officer
is elected. An elected officer’s compensation shall not be changed after his
election or during his term of office.
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of Mayors and Council members
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department for Local Government
computes by the second Friday in February of every year the annual increase or
decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using 1949 as the
base year in accordance with Section 246 of the Constitution of Kentucky, which
provides that mayors in cities of the first class shall be paid at a rate no
greater than $12,000 per annum and mayors in cities other than the first class
and Council members shall be paid at a rate no greater than $7,200 per annum.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Department for Local Government.
   (B)   The City Council shall fix the compensation of each appointed city
officer by ordinance and may change it by ordinance.
   (C)   The City Council shall establish the compensation of city employees in
accordance with the personnel and pay classification plan ordinance of the
city.
   (D)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
Case law reference:
   The limits on compensation contained in the Kentucky Constitution are not
absolute limits but rather increase or decrease in accordance with changes in
the consumer price index. See Matthews v Allen, 360 SW2d 248 (1948).
Editor’s note:
   Compensation ordinances are not set forth in this code but are rather kept
on file and available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
inability or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his office,
may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the City
Council exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his removal. No elected officer shall be removed without having
been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed, has the
right to appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall be on
the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated before
the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(2)
§ 31.04 BOND.
   (A)   Official bonds shall, if required, meet the standards of KRS 62.060.
   (B)   All officers of the city who handle public funds in the execution of
their duties shall give a good and sufficient bond to the city for the faithful
and honest performance of their duties, and as security for all money coming
into the officer’s hands or under the officer’s control. The amount of the bond
shall be established based on the amount of public funds the officer handles at
any point in time during the fiscal year and may be satisfied by a blanket or
umbrella bond covering all or a group of city officers and employees. The cost
of the bond shall be paid by the city.
(KRS 65.067)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.20 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Election of city officers is governed by general election laws as
provided in KRS Chapters 116 through 121 unless City Council otherwise
prescribes by ordinance that election of city officers shall be under
nonpartisan city election laws as provided in KRS Chapter 83A. The ordinance
shall become effective not later than 23 days prior to the date prescribed by
the election law generally for filing notification and declaration forms with
the County Clerk in a year in which a regular election is to be held in which
any city office is to be filled. Immediately subsequent to publication of any
ordinance prescribing that election of city officers be under nonpartisan city
election laws, a copy of the ordinance shall be filed with the County Clerk.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) of this section by ordinance, except that no change
shall be made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and City Council members may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
Statutory reference:
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080(3), (4)
§ 31.21 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Mayor shall be a
resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her election.
His or her term of office begins on the first day of January following his or
her election and shall be for four years and until his or her successor
qualifies. If a person is elected or appointed as Mayor in response to a
vacancy and serves less than four calendar years, then that period of service
shall not be considered for purposes of re-election a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, Council shall
fill the vacancy within 30 days. If for any reason, any vacancy in the office
of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(1), (2), (6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Council shall not vote for himself or herself. (KRS 83A.040(2)(c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor. (KRS 83A.040
(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be submitted through
electronic mail if it originates from the official’s electronic mail address
and includes also the official’s handwritten signature. The resignation shall
be effective at the next regular or special meeting of the city legislative
body occurring after the date specified in the written letter of resignation.
If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation shall be deemed
to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of the City Council
occurring on or after its receipt. (KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy. (KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the office
of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130. (KRS 83A.040(2)
(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall
be exercised by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council Plan, city
ordinances and orders, and all applicable statutes. He shall supervise all
departments of city government and the conduct of all city officers and
employees under his jurisdiction and require each department to make reports to
him as required by ordinance or as he deems desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he finds appropriate or as required
by ordinance, but not less than annually. He shall make any recommendations for
actions by the Council he finds in the public interest.
(KRS 83A.130(3))
      (4)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to insure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statutes or ordinances. Upon promulgation or upon revision
or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the person
responsible for maintaining city records. (KRS 83A.130(4))
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor’s power, duties or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his official authority
to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order. Executive
orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a permanent file.
(KRS 83A.130(7))
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his agent designated by executive
order. (KRS 83A.130(8))
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, except as tenure and terms of employment are
protected by statute, ordinance or contract and except for employees of the
Council. (KRS 83A.130(9))
      (8)   (a)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he is unable to attend to the duties
of his office by delegating responsibility for any function to be performed, in
accordance with division (D)(5) above. However, the Mayor may not delegate the
responsibility of presiding at meetings of the Council, and the authority to
approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may only be
delegated to an elected officer.
         (b)   With approval of the Council, the Mayor may rescind any action
taken in his absence under this section within 30 days of the action. If for
any reason the disability of the Mayor to attend to his duties persists for 60
consecutive days, the office of Mayor may be declared vacant by a majority vote
of the Council and the provisions of §
31.21 (C) shall apply. (KRS 83A.130(10))
§ 31.22 COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Chapter 32.
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office;
      (4)   Bond, if required; and
      (5)   Compensation, which may be specifically established or set by
reference to another ordinance in which the compensation is specifically
established.
   (B)   All nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor with
approval of City Council.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Mayor at will unless
otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (D)   The following are nonelected city offices: City Clerk, City Treasurer,
and Citation Officer.
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1), (2)
§ 31.36 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk. The City
Clerk must be a resident of the city, registered voter, and Notary Public.
   (B)   The office of City Clerk may, by ordinance, be combined with any other
nonelected city office by inclusion of the title and duties of the office.
   (C)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk shall include, but are
not limited to the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the “official custodian” or
“custodian” pursuant to KRS 61.870 through 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city ;
      (4)    No later than January 31 of each year, mail, or electronically
submit, to the Department for Local Government a list containing current city
information including but not limited to the following:
         (a)   The correct name, telephone number and electronic mail address
of the Mayor, legislative body members, and the correct name, telephone number,
and electronic mail address for the city's appointed officials or employees who
are serving in the following roles or substantially similar roles as of January
1 of each year:
            1.   City Clerk;
            2.   City Treasurer or Chief Financial Officer;
            3.   City Manager or Administrator;
            4.   City Attorney;
            5.   Human Resources Director;
            6.   Police Chief;
            7.   Fire Chief;
            8.   Public Works Director;
            9.   Risk Manager;
            10.   Information Technology Manager;
            11.   Public Relations or Communications Officer; and
            12.   Planning and Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for city hall, and
telephone number of the city hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours which will be as needed by the city, published each month in the
newsletter.
         (d)   Prepare report of activities to the Mayor.
      (5)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk by statute or ordinance.
(KRS 83A.085)
   (D)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City Council
from time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
   (E)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk unless the
person has taken the oath required by Section 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond, in accordance with the
requirements of §
31.04 of this code.
(Am. Ord. 10, Series 2000-2001, passed 7-3-2001)
§ 31.37 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   The office of Treasurer is hereby created.
   (B)   The holder of the office shall have the powers and duties designated
by the Mayor and powers and duties shall be in compliance with all other laws
relating to a city of the fourth class in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and in
conformance with all city ordinances that are not contrary to state law.
   (C)   The holder of the office shall be administered an oath as provided in
KRS 62.010 and 62.020, which shall read as directed under Section 228 of the
Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (D)   The holder of the office shall be bonded, in accordance with §
31.04.
   (E)   The compensation for this office shall be as set from time to time by
Council.
   (F)   The holder of this office shall be appointed by the Mayor, and may be
removed by the Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by law.
(Ord. 230.9, Series 1982, passed 1-5-82; Am. Ord. 10, Series 2000-2001, passed
7-3-2001)
§ 31.38 CITATION OFFICER.
   (A)   There is hereby created the nonelected office of Citation Officer. The
Citation Officer shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the approval of the City
Council, and may be dismissed on the sole authority of the Mayor. The Citation
Officer shall have all the powers and duties under KRS 83A.087.
   (B)   The Citation Officer shall be compensated as set forth from time to
time by Council, with cost reimbursement and milage at the current federal
rate. Liability insurance covering the duties of the Citation Officer will be
provided at the city’s cost. The Citation Officer will be supplied with an arm
band identification, a T-shirt and jacket, cellular telephone and business
cards and any further equipment the Council determines is necessary. In
addition, the Citation Officer will be supplied forms for warnings, citations
and a log sheet for the activities.
(Ord. 3, Series 1998-1999, passed 12-1-98; Am. Ord. 9, Series 2000-2001, passed
6-5-2001; Am. Ord. 10, Series 2000-2001, passed 7-3-2001)
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see
Chapter 90
   Binding Elements, see
Chapter 152
   Garbage, see
Chapter 50
   Streets and Sidewalks, see
Chapter 91
CHAPTER 32: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
Rules of Procedure
   
32.20   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.21   Meetings
   
32.22   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.35   One subject; title
   
32.36   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.37   Form of amendment
   
32.38   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.39   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
32.40   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.41   Official city records
   
32.42   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.43   Publication requirements
   
32.44   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.45   Periodic review required
   
32.46   Municipal orders
   
32.47   Proved by Clerk; received in evidence
   
32.48   Legislative immunity
Cross-reference:
   Mayor-Council Plan, see
Chapter 30
Statutory reference:
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080(3), (4)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Council member shall be elected at-
large by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for City
Council shall be a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his
or her election. Terms of office begin on the first day of January following
the election and shall be for two years.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 18 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02.
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on Council occur in a way that one
or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30 days fill
the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice of his
or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with the remaining
members in making further appointments until all vacancies are filled. If
vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor shall
appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute a
quorum. Remaining vacancies are filled as provided in this section.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the official’s
electronic mail address and includes also the official’s handwritten signature.
The resignation shall be effective at the next regular or special meeting of
the city legislative body occurring after the date specified in the written
letter of resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the written
resignation shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or special
meeting of the City Council occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs on the City Council which is required by law to
be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately notify
in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
      (3)   The city shall advertise any vacant position in the monthly
newsletter or another special mailer, listing the requirements of the vacated
position as set forth by Kentucky Revised Statutes and informing interested
residents how to submit a resume to the city office by the application
deadline. The Council shall review the resumes to make sure requirements are
met and schedule interviews, which shall take place at a regular or special
City Council meeting. After interviewing any qualified candidates, the Council
will make a recommendation as to a person to fill each vacancy and the vote
shall be recorded by roll call vote.
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason, any vacancy on Council
is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill
the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same
period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
(Am. Ord. 4, Series 2012-2013, passed 9-3-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall be
exercised by the elected Council of the city. The Council may not perform any
executive functions except those functions assigned to it by statute. (KRS
83A.130(11))
   (B)   The Council shall establish all appointive offices and the duties and
responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules and regulations for the
public health, safety and welfare. (KRS 83A.130(12))
   (C)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources. (KRS 83A.130(12))
   (D)   The Council may investigate all activities of city government. The
Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and submit to it
sworn statements regarding the performance of his official duties. Any
statement required by the Council to be submitted or any investigation
undertaken by the Council, if any office, department or agency under the
jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or undertaken
unless and until written notice of the Council’s action is given to the Mayor.
The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the Council and to
appear personally or through his designee on behalf of any department, office
or agency in the course of any investigation. (KRS 83A.130(13))
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.20 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council. The Council has
the authority to establish, by ordinance, the manner in which one of its number
may be selected to preside at meetings of the Council in the absence of the
Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in Council proceedings, but shall not have a
vote, except that he may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130(5))
Cross-reference:
   Council’s responsibility to select one of its own members to preside when
there is vacancy in the office of Mayor, see §
31.21
§ 32.21 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Council shall be held on the third Wednesday
of each month, 7:00 p.m. at the McMahan Fire Department, 4318 Taylorsville
Road, Louisville, KY 40220.
   (B)   (1)   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or
upon written request of a majority of the Council. In the call, the Mayor or
Council shall designate the purpose, time and place of the special meeting with
sufficient notice for the attendance of Council members and for compliance with
KRS Chapter 61.
      (2)   At a special meeting no business may be considered other than that
set forth in the designation of purpose.
   (C)   (1)   In addition to the regular meeting heretofore fixed by
ordinance, the city hereby establishes an informal meeting to be held monthly,
which shall be referred to as a “caucus meeting.”
      (2)   Attendance at the caucus meeting shall be open to the public. The
attendance of Council members, however, shall not be mandatory.
      (3)   The caucus meeting established in division (1) above shall be held
at the McMahan Fire Department, 4318 Taylorsville Road, Louisville, KY 40220,
on the third Tuesday of each month, at 7:00 p.m.
      (4)   The taking of minutes at the caucus meeting shall not be required.
      (5)   No final action shall be taken at a caucus meeting, unless the
caucus meeting also qualifies as a special meeting of the City Council,
pursuant to KRS 61.825.
(Ord. 120.8, Series 1993, passed 2-2-93)
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person responsible
for maintaining city records as provided under § 31.36 and by the officer
presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.130(11)) (Am. Ord. 3, Series 2014-2015, passed 2-3-2015; Am. Ord. 3,
Series 2023, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 32.22 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Council constitutes
a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take action.
(KRS 83A.060(6))
ORDINANCES
§ 32.35 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
clearly states the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1))
§ 32.36 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled “Be it ordained by the City of St. Regis Park.”
(KRS 83A.060(2))
§ 32.37 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060(3))
§ 32.38 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance shall
be enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.43 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(4), (7))
§ 32.39 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance by
affixing his signature or disapprove it by returning it to the Council together
with a statement of his objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor’s approval unless he
fails to return it to the legislative body within ten days after receiving it
or unless the Council votes to override the Mayor’s veto, upon reconsideration
of the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting following its
return, by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of the membership.
(KRS 83A.130(6))
§ 32.40 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title, source
and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without setting
them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is made a
part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5))
§ 32.41 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Council is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Council has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.36 (C) and
32.42, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk and the presiding officer shall sign the official record
of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.42 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.43 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.38(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
legislative body. If the legislative body elects to publish an ordinance in
summary, the summary shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to
practice law in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes fines, penalties,
forfeitures, taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads in
lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9))
§ 32.44 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10))
§ 32.45 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent and
invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11))
§ 32.46 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Council may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall be in
writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions and
other agencies over which the Council has control.
(KRS 83A.060(12), (13))
§ 32.47 PROVED BY CLERK; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk. When the ordinances are placed in this code of ordinances by
authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in evidence by any
state court without further proof of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14))
§ 32.48 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Council members shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15))
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
   
33.06   Purchasing; adoption of state regulations
Improvements
   
33.20   Definitions
   
33.21   Financing of improvements
   
33.22   Apportionment of cost
   
33.23   Comprehensive report required
   
33.24   Public hearing required
   
33.25   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.26   Affected owner may contest
   
33.27   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.28   Effect of additional property or change in financing
Investment and Financial Management Policy
   
33.40   General investment policy
   
33.41   Investment objectives
   
33.42   Investment authority
   
33.43   Prudent person rule
   
33.44   Authorized investments
   
33.45   Diversification of investments
   
33.46   Authorized financial institutions, depositories, and brokers/dealers
   
33.47   Safekeeping and custody
   
33.48   Collateral
   
33.49   Reporting/disclosure
   
33.50   Financial management policy
   
33.51   Investment parameters
   
33.52   Audit
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply.
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an ENCUMBRANCE
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
(KRS 91A.010(6))
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010(7))
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. No moneys shall
be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund except in accordance with
a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Moneys held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If, in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in a form and detail as
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to Council not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal year it
covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the governmental
goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain important
features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the reasons for
stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs and
appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   Council may adopt the budget ordinance making appropriations for
the fiscal year in the sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether greater
or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The budget ordinance
may take any form that Council finds most efficient in enabling it to make the
necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of
Section 157 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated, for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance’s adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. The responsibility includes the preparation
and submission to Council of operating statements, including budgetary
comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has been
adopted. The reports shall be submitted not less than once every three months
in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer or employee of any city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements and obligations, expressed or implied, beyond the existing
appropriations are void. No officer shall issue any bond, certificate or
warrant for the payment of money by the city in any way to any extent, beyond
the balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   Each city of the first through fifth class shall, after the
close of each fiscal year, cause each fund of the city to be audited by the
auditor of public accounts or a certified public accountant. The audit shall be
completed by February 1 immediately following the fiscal year being audited.
The city shall forward an electronic copy of the audit report to the Department
for Local Government for information purposes by no later than March 1
immediately following the year being audited.
      (2)   The Department for Local Government shall forward one copy of the
audit report to the Legislative Research Commission to be used for the purposes
of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (B)   Each city required by this section to conduct an annual or biennial
audit shall enter into a written contract with the selected auditor. The
contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall
include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual city audit report an
examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to the city
under KRS 42.450 to 42.495, and include a certification with the annual audit
report that the funds were expended for the purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which includes tests of the accounting
records and the auditing procedures as considered necessary under the
circumstances. Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal funds,
appropriate state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report embodying
the basic financial statements, accompanying supplemental and required
supplemental information, and his opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed, and findings required to be
reported as a result of the audit;
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation be presented
to Council at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant’s work papers upon request.
   (C)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (D)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the city legislative body, publish an advertisement, in accordance with KRS Ch.
424 containing:
      (1)   The auditor’s opinion letter;
      (2)   The “budgetary Comparison Schedules-Major Funds,” which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at city hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from city hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $.25 per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220, when a financial statement is required by KRS
424.220, are available to the public at no cost at the business address of the
officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (E)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined
not less than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any officer who fails to
comply with any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be
subject to a forfeiture of not less than $50 nor more than $500, in the
discretion of the court, which may be recovered only once, in a civil action
brought by any resident of the city. The costs of all proceedings, including a
reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident bringing the action, shall be
assessed against the unsuccessful party.
(KRS 91A.040)
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050.
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city’s official depositories one or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the Commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with 12 U.S.C. 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any obligations,
including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which states
the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the payment,
and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization shall be
numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060)
§ 33.06 PURCHASING; ADOPTION OF STATE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The city adopts the provisions of KRS 45A.345 through 45A.460, the
Model Procurement Code.
   (B)   The city may make purchases, $100 minimum, through the state central
purchasing office or any other governmental agency or political subdivision if
the purchases shall result in reduced cost for the city.
   (C)   All contracts and all non-budgeted purchases shall be approved or
disapproved by the City Council.
(Ord. 3, 1992, passed 2-4-92)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.20 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply.
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by Council of the special benefit received
by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis, front foot
basis and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may include
consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different classes
of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received, and other
factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to the front footage of all the properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by the facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefitted by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all property.
(KRS 91A.210)
§ 33.21 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments, except as provided in this subchapter and in any
applicable statutes.
(KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
Statutory reference:
   Improvements; alternate methods, see KRS Ch. 107
§ 33.22 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious or charitable organization. Council
may assess the property in the same manner as for privately owned property or
it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230)
§ 33.23 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments or financing.
(KRS 91A.240)
§ 33.24 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   (A)   After preparation of the report required by §
33.23, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424,
and mailed to each affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt
requested, and shall include:
      (1)   The nature of the improvement;
      (2)   Description of area of the improvement;
      (3)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in
whole or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
      (4)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
      (5)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250)
§ 33.25 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   (A)   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.23 and a description of all properties.
   (B)   Promptly upon passage, the city shall publish the ordinance pursuant
to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by certified mail to each affected property
owner a notice of determination to proceed with the project, the fair basis of
assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to the property owner, and the
ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the total cost of the entire
project.
(KRS 91A.260)
§ 33.26 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.25, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his property in the improvement, or the amount of his
assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by the
special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution are final and binding with respect to the
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270)
§ 33.27 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.26, or after favorable final judgment in any action, whichever comes later,
the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the action,
including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment thereon
and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The first
installment may be apportioned so that other payments will coincide with
payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Council shall
exempt any benefitted property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280)
§ 33.28 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.23 through
33.27 applies if additional property is included in the improvement or if
change is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property
may be included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof
without compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost
apportioned to any other property, or any other change may be made without the
compliance if all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290)
INVESTMENT AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT POLICY
§ 33.40 GENERAL INVESTMENT POLICY.
   It is the policy of the City of St. Regis Park to invest public funds in a
manner which will provide the maximum security and highest investment of
principle while meeting the daily cash flow demands on the city and conforming
to both KRS 91A.060 and KRS 66.480. This investment policy applies to all
financial assets held directly by the city. These financial assets are
accounted for in the city’s annual financial report and include all moneys in
investment fund accounts.
(Ord. 8, Series 2013-2014, passed 6-3-2014)
§ 33.41 INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES.
   The city’s primary investment objectives, in order of priority, are the
following.
   (A)   Safety. Safety of principle is the foremost objective of the city
investment program. Investments shall be undertaken in a manner that seeks to
ensure the preservation of capital in the overall portfolio.
   (B)   Liquidity. The city investment portfolio shall remain sufficiently
liquid to enable the city to meet all operating requirements which might be
reasonably anticipated.
   (C)   Return on investment. The city investment portfolio shall be designed
with the objective of attaining a market rate of return throughout the
budgetary and economic cycles, taking into account the city investment risk
constraints and the cash flow characteristics of the portfolio.
(Ord. 8, Series 2013-2014, passed 6-3-2014)
§ 33.42 INVESTMENT AUTHORITY.
   Management responsibility for the investment policy is the joint
responsibility of the St. Regis Park Mayor, City Clerk/Treasurer and City
Council. No person may engage in an investment transaction except as provided
under the terms of this policy and in accordance with the procedures
established. The Mayor, hereinafter "designated official", (with the assistance
of the City Council) shall be ultimately responsible for all investment
transactions undertaken on behalf of the city including, without limitation,
the purchase or redemption of city investments and for establishing a system of
controls to regulate the activities of subordinate city officials and
employees. The controls shall be designed to prevent and control losses of city
funds in connection with fraud; employees’ error; misrepresentation by third
parties; or imprudent actions by city officers and employees. The Mayor may,
from time to time, execute and deliver to any financial institution transacting
business with the city an incumbency and fund disbursement instruction
certificate in the form attached to Ord. 3, Series 2021-2022 as Exhibit A,
certifying: (i) the then current incumbency and signature of the Mayor,
Treasurer and City Clerk; (ii) each of their authority to conduct investment
and banking transactions on behalf of the city in accordance with the terms of
this subchapter; and (iii) the then current ACH or wire transfer instructions
or the city's general operating bank account.
(Ord. 8, Series 2013-2014, passed 6-3-2014; Ord. 3, Series 2021-2022, passed 8-
3-2021)
§ 33.43 PRUDENT PERSON RULE.
   (A)   The actions of the city officials in the performance of their duties
as managers of the city funds shall be evaluated using the “prudent person”
standard. Investments shall be made with judgment and care under prevailing
circumstances which persons of prudence, discretion, and intelligence exercise
in the management of their own affairs, not for speculation, but for investment
considering the probable safety of their capital as well as the probable income
to be derived.
   (B)   The city officials acting in accordance with written procedures and
exercising due diligence shall be relieved of personal responsibility for an
individual security’s performance, provided that deviations from expectations
are reported in a timely fashion to the government body and appropriate action
is taken to control adverse developments.
   (C)   Ethics and conflicts of interest. Officers and employees involved in
the investment process shall refrain from personal activity that could conflict
with the proper execution and management of the investment program, or that
could impair their ability to make impartial investment decisions. Employees
and investment officials shall disclose any material interests in financial
institutions with which they conduct business. Disclosure shall be made to the
governing body. They shall further disclose any personal financial/investment
positions that could be related to the performance of the investment portfolio.
Employees and officers shall refrain from undertaking any personal investment
transactions with the same individual with whom business is conducted on behalf
of the city.
(Ord. 8, Series 2013-2014, passed 6-3-2014; Ord. 3, Series 2021-2022, passed 8-
3-2021)
§ 33.44 AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   Investment types and credit guidelines. Consistent with the GFOA
Policy Statement and Kentucky laws and city ordinances concerning investment
practices, the investments as defined by KRS 66.480 are allowed. KRS 66.480(2)
restricts overall investment in KRS 66.480(1)(e), (f), (g), (k), and (l) of the
following types of securities to 20% of total local government investments:
      (1)   U.S. government obligations and instrumentalities, including
obligations subject to repurchase, if delivery of these obligations is taken
directly or through an authorized custodian;
      (2)   U.S. Treasury and other U.S. government obligations that carry the
full faith and credit guarantee of the United States for the payment of
principal and interest;
      (3)   Federal agency or U.S. government-sponsored enterprises (GSE)
obligations, participations or other instruments;
      (4)   CDs issued by or other interest-bearing accounts of any bank or
savings and loan institution having a physical presence in Kentucky and that
are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or similar entity or
that are collateralized by any obligations, including surety bonds, permitted
by KRS 41.240;
      (5)   Uncollateralized CDs issued by any bank or savings and loan having
a physical presence in Kentucky rated in one of three highest categories by a
competent rating agency;
      (6)   Bankers' acceptances, which must be rated in one of the three
highest categories by a competent rating agency;
      (7)   Commercial paper, rated in the highest tier (e.g., A-1, P-1, F-1,
or D-1 or higher) by a competent rating organization;
      (8)   Bonds or certificates of indebtedness of this state and of its
agencies and instrumentalities;
      (9)   Investment-grade obligations of state or local governments or
instrumentality thereof rated one of three highest categories by a competent
rating agency;
      (10)   Shares of mutual funds and exchange traded funds as identified by
KRS 66.480(1)(j);
      (11)   Individual equity securities if the funds are managed by a
professional investment manager regulated by a federal regulatory agency and
are included within the S&P 500 pursuant to KRS 66.480(1)(k); and
      (12)   Individual high-quality corporate bonds managed by a professional
investment manager pursuant to KRS 66.480(1)(l).
   (B)   Limitation on investment transactions. With regard to the investments
authorized in this section, no investments shall be purchased for the City of
St. Regis Park on a margin basis or through the use of any similar leveraging
technique. Further, the Mayor, Treasurer and City Clerk may, by themselves,
purchase or redeem, bonds, securities, mutual funds, money markets or other
eligible investments in a transaction or combination of transactions up to and
including $150,000 in any given consecutive 30 day period. Any investment
transaction or combination of transactions that exceed $150,000 in the
aggregate during a consecutive 30 day period will require the authorization of
at least two of: (i) the Mayor; (ii) Treasurer; and (iii) City Clerk. All funds
generated from redemptions of eligible investments ("redemption funds") at a
given financial institution shall either be: (i) deposited into a money market
or cash account that satisfies the conditions of this subchapter hereof and
that is held in the name of the city at the applicable financial institution;
or (ii) disbursed by the applicable financial institution to the City of St.
Regis Park's general operating bank account (the "operating account") by ACH or
wire transfer pursuant to the ACH or the wire transfer instructions, as
applicable, set forth in the most recent incumbency and fund disbursement
instruction certificate provided to such financial institution in accordance
with this subchapter. In furtherance of the foregoing, in no event shall a
financial institution transacting business with the city disburse any
redemption funds other than in accordance with item (i) or (ii) of the
preceding sentence including, without limitation, disbursing any redemption
funds via paper check or via wire transfer, ACH or other electronic funds
transfer to any account other than the operating account.
(Ord. 3, Series 2021-2022, passed 8-3-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see KRS 66.480(1)(a) through (i)
§ 33.45 DIVERSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   The city recognizes that some level of risk is inherent in any
investment transaction. Losses may be incurred due to market price changes or
closing investments prior to maturity due to unanticipated cash flow needs.
Diversification of the city investment portfolio by type of investment
instrument and term to maturity is the primary method to minimize investment
risk.
   (B)   To the extent possible, the city will attempt to match its investments
with anticipated cash flow requirements. Reserve funds may be invested in
securities exceeding one year, if maturities of the investments are made to
coincide as nearly as practical with the expected use of the funds.
(Ord. 8, Series 2013-2014, passed 6-3-2014)
§ 33.46 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, DEPOSITORIES, AND BROKERS/DEALERS.
   (A)   No financial institution shall be selected as a depository of city
funds if the city funds on deposit at any time will exceed 10% of the
institution’s capital surplus and stock. The Mayor shall evaluate the financial
capacity and creditworthiness of financial institutions prior to the placement
of the city funds and each shall comply with the requirements of KRS 91A.060
for qualifying official depositories. The Mayor (with assistance of the City
Council) shall conduct an annual review of the financial condition and
registrations of financial institutions and based on the review, make any
recommendations regarding investment policy or program changes determined to be
necessary to the City Council, who shall consider and may vote to approve or
disapprove such recommendations.
   (B)   A list will be maintained of financial institutions and depositories
authorized to provide investment services. In addition, a list will be
maintained of approved security broker/dealers selected by conducting a process
of due diligence. These may include "primary" dealers or regional dealers that
qualify under Securities and Exchange Council (SEC) Rule 15C3-1 (Uniform Net
Capital Rule).
      (1)   The designated officials shall determine which financial
institutions are authorized to provide investment services to the city.
Institutions eligible to transact investment business with the city include:
         (a)   Primary government dealers as designated by the Federal Reserve
Bank;
         (b)   Nationally or state-chartered banks;
         (c)   The Federal Reserve Bank;
         (d)   Direct issuers of securities eligible for purchase; and
         (e)   Kentucky League of Cities Investment Pool Plus.
      (2)   Selection of financial institutions and broker/dealers authorized
to engage in transactions with the City of St. Regis Park shall be at the sole
discretion of the city.
      (3)   All brokers/dealers who desire to become qualified for investment
transactions must supply the following (as appropriate):
         (a)   Audited financial statements demonstrating compliance with state
and federal capital adequacy guidelines;
         (b)   Proof of state registration;
         (c)   Completed broker/dealer questionnaire (not applicable to
certificate of deposit counterparties); and
         (d)   Certification of having read, understood, and agreed to comply
with the entity's investment policy and evidence of adequate insurance
coverage.
      (4)   All financial institutions who desire to become depositories must
supply the following (as appropriate):
         (a)   Audited financial statements demonstrating compliance with state
and federal capital adequacy guidelines;
         (b)   Proof of state registration; and
         (c)   Evidence of adequate insurance coverage.
(Ord. 8, Series 2013-2014, passed 6-3-2014; Ord. 3, Series 2021-2022, passed 8-
3-2021)
§ 33.47 SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   (A)   To protect against potential fraud and embezzlement, bearer
instruments shall be held only through third-party institutions. Any officer or
employee of the city authorized to engage in investment transactions shall be
bonded in an amount established by the city.
   (B)   Delivery vs. payment. All trades of marketable securities will be
executed (cleared and settled) on a delivery vs. payment (DVP) basis to ensure
that securities are deposited in the entity's safekeeping institution prior to
the release of funds.
   (C)   Third-party safekeeping. Securities will be held by an independent
third-party safekeeping institution selected by the City of St. Regis Park. All
securities will be evidenced by safekeeping receipts in the name of the City of
St. Regis Park. The safekeeping institution shall annually provide a copy of
its most recent report on internal controls: service organization control
reports (formerly 70, or SAS 70) prepared in accordance with the Statement on
Standards for Attestation Engagements (SSAE) No. 16 (effective June 15, 2011).
   (D)   Internal controls. Management shall establish a system of internal
controls, which shall be documented in writing. The internal controls shall be
reviewed by the investment committee, where present, and with the independent
auditor. The controls shall be designed to prevent the loss of public funds
arising from fraud, employee error, misrepresentation by third parties,
unanticipated changes in financial markets, or imprudent actions by employees
and officers of the city.
(Ord. 8, Series 2013-2014, passed 6-3-2014; Ord. 3, Series 2021-2022, passed 8-
3-2021)
§ 33.48 COLLATERAL.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to require that all cash and investments
in excess of the amount insured by the FDIC maintained in any financial
institution named as a depository be collateralized. In order to anticipate
market changes and provide a level of security for all funds, the
collateralization level shall be 100% of the market value of principal, plus
accrued interest in accordance with KRS 91A.060. Collateral shall be limited to
the types of instruments authorized as collateral for state funds in KRS
41.240.
   (B)   Collateral shall always be held by an independent third-party
custodian with whom the city has a current custodial agreement. A clearly
marked evidence of ownership (safekeeping receipt) must be supplied to the city
and retained by the City Clerk/Treasurer. The right of collateral substitution
is hereby granted.
(Ord. 8, Series 2013-2014, passed 6-3-2014)
§ 33.49 REPORTING/DISCLOSURE.
   The designated officials shall submit, at least quarterly, an investment
report that summarizes recent market conditions, economic developments and
anticipated investment conditions. The report shall summarize the investment
strategies employed in the most recent quarter, and describe the portfolio in
terms of investment securities, maturities, risk characteristics and other
features. The report shall explain the quarter's total investment return and
compare the return with budgetary expectations. The report shall include an
appendix that discloses all transactions during the past quarter. The report
shall be in compliance with Kentucky law and shall be distributed to the
investment committee and others as required by law. Each quarterly report shall
indicate any areas of policy concern and suggested or planned revision of
investment strategies. Copies shall be transmitted to the independent auditor.
Within 40 days of the end of the fiscal year, the designated officials shall
present a comprehensive annual report on the investment program and investment
activity. The annual report shall include both 12-month and quarterly
comparisons of return and shall suggest policies and improvements that might be
made in the investment program. Alternatively, this report may be included
within the City of St. Regis Park annual comprehensive annual financial report.
(Ord. 3, Series 2021-2022, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 33.50 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT POLICY.
   The city hereby establishes that all city officials shall apply the
following policies and internal financial controls when dealing with the day to
day financial affairs of the city.
   (A)   Purpose. The City Council, Mayor and all officials and employees are
responsible to manage the funds of the city effectively and to ensure the
financial management of these funds is properly controlled. All city officials
have a duty to care for and protect the funds and assets of the city and may
use those funds and assets only for the good of the city and for properly
authorized purposes.
   (B)   Internal controls. Oversight of the day-to-day expenditures are the
responsibility of the Mayor and Clerk/Treasurer and shall be subject to the
following internal controls:
      (1)   All invoices/expense vouchers must be approved in writing by the
Mayor and the City Clerk/Treasurer. Two signatures are required on the invoice/
expense voucher. The approved invoice/expense voucher will be forwarded to a
third party accountant, who will then issue the check. The check will be
forwarded to the City Clerk/Treasurer for signature and distribution. If the
City Clerk/Treasurer is unable to sign the check, the Mayor (or Mayor Pro-
Tern), will be authorized to sign.
      (2)   Checks require one signature, which should be that of the Mayor or
Clerk/Treasurer. If the Mayor is not available the second signature may be
supplied by the appointed Mayor Pro-Tern. Whenever possible, any and all
persons who are handling or have primary access to the money of the city should
be bonded and/or insurance coverage for theft loss obtained in the city’s
insurance package. Whenever possible, any person to whom a check is made
payable, should not be one of the signatories.
      (3)   Expenditures that exceed any line item classification in the budget
must be reviewed approved by the City Council at least once prior to the end of
the fiscal year.
      (4)   Debit/credit cards are to be monitored carefully and used
sparingly. Whenever possible, the maximum credit limit for each debit card or
credit card should be reduced to its lowest possible amount. Any person
desiring to use the city’s credit or debit card must first receive the approval
of the Mayor and then return to the office a receipt for any purchase.
      (5)   Request for reimbursement for any personal expenditure must be
accompanied by adequate documentation and explanation and must be approved as
an invoice as set out above. When possible, reimbursement to a city employee
should be avoided in favor of direct payment by the city to the vendor, based
on an approved invoice.
   (C)   Monitoring. Monitoring of city finances is an ongoing process. The
Mayor and Clerk/Treasurer will work closely to monitor the finances. A
comprehensive monthly report will be presented to the City Council for review
and approval, which includes reports of actual income and expenditure and
comparison with the budget, along with commentary on any material variance.
      (1)   It is the intent of the city to separate specific work items
relating to finances, so that the same person is not able to make deposits,
record deposits and expenditures and make out checks.
      (2)   Any member of the City Council may demand detailed accounting for
all receipts and payments.
      (3)   Salaries and wages shall be paid to non-elected staff in accordance
with a pay scale, which shall be adopted by the City Council as part of its
annual budget. There shall be no changes or deviations from the adopted pay
scale for the year without the specific approval of the City Council.
      (4)   It is the responsibility of the Mayor, City Council and Clerk/
Treasurer to establish an inventory of all the equipment, goods and personal
property owned by the city and to safeguard those assets. The inventory must be
provided to the city’s insurance carrier so that risk of loss may be mitigated.
Any item (of any kind) surplus to the needs of the city, must be disposed of in
a way that complies with Kentucky Revised Statutes. This includes selling the
item if the item has resale value.
(Ord. 8, Series 2013-2014, passed 6-3-2014)
§ 33.51 INVESTMENT PARAMETERS.
   Credit risk is the risk that a security or a portfolio will lose some or all
of its value due to a real or perceived change in the ability of the issuer to
repay its debt. The city shall mitigate credit risk by adopting a
diversification strategy as follows: it is the policy of the City of St. Regis
Park to diversify its investment portfolios within the restrictions of state
and federal law. KRS 66.480(2)(a) limits local government investment in
securities to 20% of total investment, with no more than 5% of total investment
in a single issuer absent exceptions in KRS 66.480(2)(d)(1) - (4). Furthermore,
local governments are restricted from investing 40% of allowed securities
investment total in mutual funds and exchange traded funds, individual equity
securities, and individual high-quality corporate bonds by KRS 66.480(2)(b).
(Ord. 3, Series 2021-2022, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 33.52 AUDIT.
   In connection with the annual audit of City of St. Regis Park funds
conducted by an independent certified public accountant, the auditor shall
conduct a review of the City of St. Regis Park investment program, including,
if he or she deems necessary, internal controls and procedures, and the results
of the review, including any recommended changes, shall be included in the City
of St. Regis Park audit.
(Ord. 3, Series 2021-2022, passed 8-3-2021)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.05   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.06   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.07   Public records not immediately available
   
34.08   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.09   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.10   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.11   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.12   Format of copies
   
34.13   Fees for copies
   
34.14   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
34.15   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
34.16   Public records protected from disclosure
   
34.17   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   CITY. The city government of this city.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its news
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to the action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   CUSTODIAN. The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records. The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of
most of the public records of this city is the City Clerk.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes and cards.
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN. The chief administrative officer or any other officer or
employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care and
keeping of public records, regardless of whether the records are in his actual
personal custody and control. The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall be the
Mayor.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. The city, including its legislative body and every officer,
department and division of the city; every entity created by authority of the
city; any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council or agency created and controlled by the city; and
any interagency body in which the city participates.
   PUBLIC RECORDS. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of
or retained by the public agency. PUBLIC RECORDS shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for the public agency that are not related to
functions, activities, programs or operations funded by the public agency nor
any records that may be excluded by §
34.16.
   REQUEST. An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the agency.
   SOFTWARE.  The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications or any other mechanism for
controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the public
agency’s computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(Ord. 4, Series 2021-2022, passed 9-7-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see KRS 61.870
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.05 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)    Any resident of the Commonwealth of Kentucky defined by KRS 61.870
(10) desiring to inspect or copy the public records of this city shall make a
request for inspection by email to the City Clerk, at the office of the City
Clerk during regular office hours, except during legal holidays, or send Form
OAG-01 "Request to Inspect Public Record" to the City Clerk at the city's
address. Form OAG-01 is available on the city website along with this section.
The official custodian, or the custodian acting under the authority of the
official custodian, may require Form OAG-01 with the applicant’s name printed
legibly on the application. Form OAG-01, to inspect public records, may be
presented by hand delivery, mail or via email.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person’s request is in compliance
with this chapter and the open records law, and the requested public records
are immediately available, the custodian shall deliver the records for
inspection. A person may inspect public records at the designated office of the
city during the regular office hours, or in appropriate cases, by receiving
copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the city,
suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk or
in another office of the city as determined by the official custodian or
custodian for the inspection. No person shall remove original copies of public
records from the offices of the city without the written permission of the
official custodian of the record. When public records are inspected at the city
offices, the person inspecting the records shall have the right to make
abstracts and memoranda of the public records and to obtain copies of all
written public records. When copies are requested, the custodian may require
advance payment of the prescribed fee.
   (D)    Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee.
(Ord. 4, Series 2021-2022, passed 9-7-2021)
§ 34.06 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk does not have custody or control of the public record or
records requested, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant and shall furnish
the name and location of the official custodian of the agency’s public records.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 34.07 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
    If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and legal
holidays) from receipt of Form OAG-01, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time and earliest date on which
the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(Ord. 4, Series 2021-2022, passed 9-7-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see KRS 61.872(5)
§ 34.08 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
§ 34.09 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
    The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and
legal holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
five-day period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in
part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under his authority and shall constitute final
agency action.
(Ord. 4, Series 2021-2022, passed 9-7-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see KRS 61.880
§ 34.10 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
§ 34.11 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or in
which he is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate identification,
subject to the provisions of §
34.16 of these rules and regulations.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 34.12 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
34.16. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where appropriate.
If the applicant desires copies of public records other than written records,
the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or permit the
applicant to duplicate the records. The custodian shall ensure that the
duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than 8½ inches x 11 inches in at least one color on white paper, or for
electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard Code for
Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and the format conforms
to the requestor’s requirements, the public record may be provided in this
alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a non-standardized request.
(KRS 61.874(1) - (3))
§ 34.13 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   The public agency may prescribe a reasonable fee for making copies of
nonexempt public records requested for use for noncommercial purposes which
shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of the
media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but not
including the cost of staff required. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a non-standardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the
request of an individual or a group, the public agency may at its discretion
provide the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual
costs incurred.
   (B)   (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) of this section may be
based on one or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records; and/or
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(3), (4))
Cross-reference:
   Fees for online access to public records, see §
34.15
§ 34.14 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
34.13;
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.15 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
34.13.
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 34.16 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except as provided in KRS
61.878(1) that no court shall authorize the inspection by any party of any
materials pertaining to civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the
Rules of Civil Procedure governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy.
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute.
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to the agency, or required
by an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records.
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements and tax credits as described in KRS
Chapter 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unlamented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (b)
above, shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
directed by statute.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(2) above.
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods.
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until the time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision.
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again.
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action. The exemptions provided by this subdivision
shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the
exercise of rights granted by this chapter.
      (9)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
      (10)   Preliminary drafts, notes or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency.
      (11)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended.
      (12)   All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation.
      (13)   Public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of
Revenue in tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure
under KRS 131.190.
      (14)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Counterterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include but not be limited to information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage, and gas systems;
            7.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division: detailed drawings, schematics,
maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and operating,
utility, or security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied,
leased, or maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this paragraph, TERRORIST ACT means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (14)(a)6. of this
division; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division, that public agency
shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS
61.880(1), to the executive director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General.
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs.
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law.
      (15)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation, regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law;
      (16)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapter 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited.
      (17)   Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Chapter 31;
      (18)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of:
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party;
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for a person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos.
      (19)   Records confidentially maintained by a law enforcement agency in
accordance with a wellness program, including an early intervention system, as
described in state law.
      (20)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person.
   (C)   No exemption in this section shall be construed to deny, abridge, or
impede the right of a public agency employee, including university employees,
an applicant for employment, or an eligible on a register to inspect and to
copy any record including preliminary and other supporting documentation that
relates to him or her. The records shall include, but not be limited to, work
plans, job performance, demotions, evaluations, promotions, compensation,
classification, reallocation, transfers, lay offs, disciplinary actions,
examination scores, and preliminary and other supporting documentation. A
public agency employee, including univerity employees, applicant, or eligible
shall not have the right to inspect or to copy any examination or any documents
relating to ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by an agency.
   (D)   If any public record contains material which is not excepted under
this section, the public agency shall separate the excepted and make the
nonexcepted material available for examination.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (F)   When material is made available pursuant to a request under division
(A)(18) of this section, the public agency shall not be required to make a copy
of the recording except as provided in KRS 61.169, and the requesting parties
shall not be limited in the number of times they may view the material.
(KRS 61.878)
§ 34.17 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the open
records law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
Section
   
35.01   County assessment adopted
   
35.02   Due date; payment
   
35.03   Delinquency
   
35.04   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles
   
35.05   Disposition of funds
   
35.06   Ad valorem tax on utility companies; special sanitation tax assessment
§ 35.01 COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted in KRS 132.285, the city hereby
adopts the Jefferson County assessment for all real and personal property
situated within the city as the basis of all ad valorem tax levies ordered or
approved by the City Council.
   (B)   The assessment as finally determined for county tax purposes shall
serve as the basis for all city levies for the fiscal year commencing after the
assessment date.
(Ord. 1, Series 1999-2000, passed 6-1-99; Am. Ord. 1, Series 2001-2002, passed
6-5-2001; Am. Ord. 1, Series 2002-2003, passed 6-4-2002; Am. Ord. 1, Series
2003-2004, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 35.02 DUE DATE; PAYMENT.
   (A)   All taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall become due
on November 1.
   (B)   If tax is paid on or before October 1, the bill shall be subject to a
discount of five percent.
(Ord. 1, Series 1999-2000, passed 6-1-99; Ord. 1, Series 2000-2001, passed 6-6-
2000)
§ 35.03 DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   All city taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall
become delinquent on November 1 following their due dates.
   (B)   (1)   Any taxes not paid by the date when they become delinquent shall
be subject to a penalty of 15% on the taxes due and unpaid, plus an additional
1% interest charge compounded per month starting November 1.
      (2)   The delinquent taxpayer shall also pay all costs and expenses
incidental to any action taken by the city for collection of the delinquent tax
bill.
(Ord. 1, Series 1999-2000, passed 6-1-1999; Am. Ord. 7, Series 2010, passed 4-
6-2010)
   (C)   Collection of said taxes shall be made in the manner prescribed by
law. Failure to pay the tax and penalty shall and will constitute a lien upon
the property in question. (Ord. 1, Series 2000- 2001, passed 6-6-2000; Am. Ord.
1, Series 2013-2014, passed 6-4-2013; Am. Ord. 1, Series 2014-2015, passed 6-3-
2014; Am. Ord. 1, Series 2015-2016, passed 6-2-2015)
§ 35.04 AD VALOREM TAXES ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   All ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall be collected by the
Jefferson County Clerk in accordance with KRS 134.800.
   (B)   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall become due and delinquent as
set forth in KRS 134.810 and any taxes not paid by the date when they become
delinquent shall be subject to the penalty and interest specified in KRS
134.810.
§ 35.05 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All monies collected from the taxes levied in this chapter shall be paid
into the General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Council.
§ 35.06 AD VALOREM TAX ON UTILITY COMPANIES; SPECIAL SANITATION TAX ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   An ad valorem tax on real property and property of utility companies
is levied.
   (B)   A special sanitation tax is assessed under KRS 82.095 on every
residence within the city.
   (C)   These taxes shall be due and payable to the city as follows:
      (1)   July 15 through September 30, the discounted amount (5% discount
off face amount);
      (2)   October 1 through October 31, the face amount;
      (3)   November 1 and thereafter, the face amount of total bill, plus 15%
penalty, plus an additional 1% interest charge compounded per month starting
November 1, when the tax bill becomes delinquent and collection of the taxes
shall be made in the manner prescribed by law. Failure to pay the tax and
penalty shall and will constitute a lien upon the property in question.
   (D)   The revenue from the taxes, interest and penalties shall be used for
the general operating expenses of the city and for the general purposes for the
city in the discharge of its municipal functions as ordained, resolved or
directed by the City Council. Any surplus from said taxes shall go to the
general operation fund of the city.
(Ord. 1, Series 2019-2020, passed 6-4-2019; Am. Ord. 1, Series 2020-2021,
passed 6-2-2020)
CHAPTER 36: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
   
36.01   Definitions
   
36.02   Standards of conduct
   
36.03   Conflicts of interest
   
36.04   Financial disclosure statements
   
36.05   Special agreements; enforcement
 
   
36.99   Penalty
§ 36.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE STATEMENT. An annual statement filed on a form supplied
by the City Clerk which discloses a person’s personal and financial interests
required to be reported under this chapter.
   FINANCIAL INTEREST. Any interest which shall yield, directly or indirectly,
a monetary or other material benefit (other than one’s duly authorized salary
or compensation for services to the city) to the officer, official or to any
person employing or retaining the services of the official.
   OFFICER or OFFICIAL. Any person elected or appointed to any public body of
the city, whether paid or unpaid and whether part time or full time.
   PERSONAL INTEREST. Any interest arising from blood or marital relationships
or from close business or political association whether or not any financial
interest is involved.
   PUBLIC BODY. Any agency, board, body, commission, committee, department or
office of the city.
(Ord. 8, Series 1994-1995, passed 2-7-95)
§ 36.02 STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of officers and officials to comply with federal
and state constitutional law, the statutes and administrative regulations of
the federal government and the Commonwealth of Kentucky, and ordinances of the
city with respect to the proper and appropriate conduct of their positions.
   (B)   Mindful of these laws, each officer and official shall:
      (1)   Perform all mandatory, nondiscretionary and ministerial duties of
their positions within the time and manner required by law;
      (2)   Devote adequate attention to one’s duties and conduct any city
business with fairness, integrity and professionalism in full regard of the
public trust of the office;
      (3)   Accept only that amount of salary, benefits or reimbursements for
services or goods as authorized pursuant to a city contract, ordinance,
resolution or other official city action;
      (4)   Act within the confines of their lawful authority or official
capacity;
      (5)   Prepare and keep all city accounts, records, certificates, reports
and other documents in an accurate and honest manner, avoiding any intentional
and knowing falsification of the same;
      (6)   Reject and discourage anything of value including, but not limited
to, any gifts, loans, favors, moneys, promises or services, offered and/or
given for the purpose of influencing them in the discharge of their duties;
      (7)   Use city property, facilities or resources only as authorized in
their official capacity, not for the personal benefit, convenience or gain,
monetary or otherwise, of themselves or any others;
      (8)   Keep confidential any city documents or business information
designated as such, and avoid using any confidential information to advance
personal or financial interests; and
      (9)   Act in what is conceived, in their opinion, to be the best interest
of all the citizens of the city, granting no special consideration or treatment
to any citizen or group of citizens which is not available to all citizens.
(Ord. 8, Series 1994-1995, passed 2-7-95) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.03 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   No officer or official either on his or her own behalf or any other
persons, shall have any financial interest in any business or transaction with
any public body unless he shall first make full public disclosures of the
nature and extent of the interest.
   (B)   Whenever the performance of one’s official duties shall require any
officer or official deliberate and vote on any matter involving one’s financial
or personal interest, the interest shall be publicly disclosed and the officer
or official shall be disqualified from participating in the deliberation and
voting.
   (C)   No officer or official shall engage in private employment with, or
render services for, any private person who has business transactions with any
public body unless he shall first make full public disclosure of the nature and
extent of the employment or services.
   (D)   No officer or official shall represent or appear on behalf of any
private person, other than himself or herself, before any public body of the
city.
   (E)   No officer or official shall appoint, employ or vote for appointment
or employment of any person related by blood or marriage to any clerkship,
office, position, employment or duty when the salary, wages, pay or
compensation is to be paid out of public funds without the unanimous finding of
the City Council that the employment or appointment is in the best interests of
the city and the employment or appointment will be provided at a cost below the
market rate for the services.
(Ord. 8, Series 1994-1995, passed 2-7-95) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.04 FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any officer or official who makes or participates in the making
of city-based decisions which may foreseeably have a material effect on a
personal or financial interest of the person shall file an annual financial
disclosure statement with the person designated by the City Council as the
“Code of Ethics Enforcement Officer.”
      (2)   Statements shall be available for public inspection.
   (B)   An initial financial disclosure statement shall be filed within 30
days after the effective date of this chapter.
   (C)   Financial disclosure statements shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Investments or interests in real property reports where the
individual fair market value of each investment or real property interest is
over $200,000. For the investments or real property interests, the statement
shall contain a description of the nature of the investment or interest, the
name and general description of the business entity in which each investment is
held, and the address or other precise location of the real property.
      (2)   Personal income reports detailing the name and address of each
source of income aggregating $75,000 or more in value, or $10,000 or more in
value if the income was a gift, and a general description of the business
activity, if any, of each source. The report shall also describe any
consideration, if any, for which the income was received. Gifts from members of
the immediate family need not be reported.
      (3)   Business entity income reports detailing the names of all persons
from whom the filer’s business entity, including sole proprietorships, received
payments if the filer’s pro rata share of gross receipts from the persons was
equal to or greater than $350,000 during a calendar year.
   (D)   Persons required to file financial disclosure statements under
division (A) of this section must disqualify themselves from making or
participating in the making of any decisions which will foreseeably have a
material financial effect, distinguishable from its effect on the public
generally, on any reportable interest of that person.
   (E)   (1)   Persons required to disqualify themselves shall notify the Code
of Ethics Enforcement Officer in writing of their disqualification. The Officer
shall record their disqualification. In the alternative, persons required to
disqualify themselves may give notice of their disqualification at the meeting
or proceeding during which consideration of the decision takes place.
      (2)   The notice shall be made part of the record of the meeting or
proceeding.
(Ord. 8, Series 1994-1995, passed 2-7-95)
§ 36.05 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The city reserves the right to enter into an agreement at any time
with one or more other cities or counties pursuant to the provisions of the
Interlocal Cooperation Act, KRS 65.210 through 65.300, for the purpose of
establishing a joint commission responsible for enforcing the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   In the absence of an agreement, the City Council members shall appoint
the City Clerk, or another qualified, non-interested person, as the Code of
Ethics Enforcement Officer, who shall be responsible for the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter, including: maintenance of financial disclosure
statements; receipt of complaints alleging possible violations of this chapter;
issuance of opinions in response to inquiries relating to this chapter;
investigation of possible violations of this chapter; and imposition of
penalties provided under this chapter upon the advice and consent of City
Council.
   (C)   (1)   Upon the sworn complaint of any person alleging facts which, if
true, would constitute improper conduct under the provisions of this chapter,
the Code of Ethics Enforcement Officer shall notify the City Council in
writing.
      (2)   The City Council shall conduct a public hearing in accordance with
all the requirements of due process of the law, and, through written findings
of fact and conclusions based thereon, make a determination concerning the
propriety of the conduct of the subject officer, official or employee.
(Ord. 8, Series 1994-1995, passed 2-7-95)
§ 36.99 PENALTY.
   Any officers, officials or employees violating any provision of this chapter
may be reprimanded, suspended or discharged. In addition, any person, firm or
corporation convicted of violating any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500
for each offense.
(Ord. 8, Series 1994-1995, passed 2-7-95)
CHAPTER 37: CITY POLICIES
Section
   
37.01   Hiring of independent contractors
§ 37.01 HIRING OF INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS.
   (A)   It is the policy of the City of St. Regis Park to require any person
doing work for the city as an independent contractor to submit to the city a
certificate of insurance showing that the contractor has in place a sufficient
policy of insurance (in the sole opinion of the city); given the extent and the
nature of the work to be performed. The certificate of insurance must be
presented as a condition to and prior to performing such work. Such insurance
policy at a minimum must contain coverage for any statutorily required
insurance that the contractor may have to maintain, such as workers
compensation and unemployment insurance; and general liability coverage of at
least $500,000. It is further the policy of the city to attempt to get the city
named as an additional insured, if, in the sole opinion of the city, the nature
and extent of the work makes this requirement reasonable to require.
   (B)   It is the policy of the city that any other person(s) who desire to do
work for the city shall be treated as an employee of the city and paid as an
employee, with any required withholding, so that the person(s) could qualify
for coverage under the City of St. Regis Park insurance policy.
(Ord. 5, Series 2012-2013, passed 1-8-2013)
CHAPTER 38: BOARDS, DEPARTMENTS, AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Tree Board
   
38.01   Applicability
   
38.02   Establishment of Tree Board
   
38.03   City Arborist
   
38.04   Annual tree work plan
   
38.05   Additional assignments
   
38.06   Arbor Day
   
38.07   Budget
   
38.08   Review and appeal
   
38.09   Tree and shrub planting, maintenance and trimming standards
   
38.10   Enforcement
TREE BOARD
§ 38.01 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter provides full power and authority over trees and shrubs
located within street rights-of-way, parks and public spaces of the City of St.
Regis Park; and to trees and shrubs located on private property adjacent to
street rights-of-way that constitute a hazard, or threat as described herein.
(Ord. 5, Series 2013-2014, passed 1-7-2014; Am. Ord. 6, Series 2015-2016,
passed 4-5-2016l; Am. Ord. 9, Series 2016, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 38.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF TREE BOARD.
   There is hereby established a Tree Board for the city, which shall consist
of three voting members, who shall be citizens and residents of the City of St.
Regis Park. The members shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the consent and
approval of the Council, for staggered, three year terms. The Tree Board
members shall serve without compensation. The Tree Board shall hold meetings no
less than once per year and any and all meeting must be open to the public,
publically announced, and be conducted in accordance with the Open Meeting law
of Kentucky.
(Ord. 5, Series 2013-2014, passed 1-7-2014; Am. Ord. 6, Series 2015-2016,
passed 4-5-2016; Am. Ord. 9, Series 2016, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 38.03 CITY ARBORIST.
   The city shall retain the services of a certified arborist to advise and
assist the Tree Board with their duties and responsibilities described in this
subchapter, with a cost and contract to be approved annually by the city as
part of its normal budget cycle. Such City Arborist, or any company associated
with the City Arborist, shall not perform any trimming, pruning or removals for
the city.
(Ord. 5, Series 2013-2014, passed 1-7-2014; Am. Ord. 6, Series 2015-2016,
passed 4-5-2016)
§ 38.04 ANNUAL TREE WORK PLAN.
   The Tree Board shall study, develop, update annually and administer a
written annual tree work plan, cost of implementation of which shall be within
an annual budget to be submitted and approved by the city as part of its annual
budget cycle each year. The plan shall address species diversity, planting
needs, hazardous trees, insect and disease problems, preservation, pruning,
planting, replanting, removal or disposition of trees and shrubs along streets
and other public areas and a pattern of regular care such as pruning and
watering. The plan shall be presented annually to the City Council for their
review, acceptance and approval.
(Ord. 5, Series 2013-2014, passed 1-7-2014; Am. Ord. 6, Series 2015-2016,
passed 4-5-2016)
§ 38.05 ADDITIONAL ASSIGNMENTS.
   The Tree Board may be assigned by the City Council to research, investigate,
consider, and make findings and report upon any other matter in relation to
trees and tree preservation.
(Ord. 5, Series 2013-2014, passed 1-7-2014; Am. Ord. 6, Series 2015-2016,
passed 4-5-2016)
§ 38.06 ARBOR DAY.
   The city shall have an annual observance of Arbor Day, for this the Tree
Board shall make a proclamation and hold a celebratory ceremony such as
presentation of an award, or planting of a tree.
(Ord. 5, Series 2013-2014, passed 1-7-2014; Am. Ord. 6, Series 2015-2016,
passed 4-5-2016)
§ 38.07 BUDGET.
   The city shall fund the Annual Work Plan and Arbor Day observation with an
annual budget contribution of at least $2 per capita, according to the most
recent census. The cost of the City Arborist shall not be included in this
budget calculation.
(Ord. 5, Series 2013-2014, passed 1-7-2014; Am. Ord. 6, Series 2015-2016,
passed 4-5-2016)
§ 38.08 REVIEW AND APPEAL.
   The City Council may review the conduct, acts and decisions of the Tree
Board. Any property owner has the right to appeal a request, or decision, of
the Tree Board to the City Council; which may hear the matter and then, in that
event, make a final decision in writing within 60 days.
(Ord. 5, Series 2013-2014, passed 1-7-2014; Am. Ord. 6, Series 2015-2016,
passed 4-5-2016)
§ 38.09 TREE AND SHRUB PLANTING, MAINTENANCE AND TRIMMING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Tree list and planting guidelines. The Tree Board and the City
Arborist shall create a list of preferred tree species to be planted in the
city and establish planting distances and clearances from fire plugs,
utilities, sidewalks and other obstructions. The Tree Board shall create
additional pruning and maintenance recommendations and best practices to
fulfill the Tree Board’s purpose herein. These recommendations shall be
mandatory for any tree located (or to be located) within any right of way. The
recommendations shall not be mandatory for any tree located on private
property.
   (B)   Trees in public areas. The city shall have the right to plant, trim,
prune, maintain and remove trees, plants and shrubs within the right of way of
all streets and public right of way, as may be necessary for public safety or
to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public ground. The Tree
Board may select locations in the city for planting of new street trees, in
consultation with the City Arborist. No person shall be allowed to prune, top,
or remove, a tree in the public right of way without the advice and consent of
the Tree Board and the City Arborist. The city will perform and pay for the
partial removal of any tree, whether in the right of way or not, that due to a
storm event, or other natural condition, has been damaged so as to block a
public roadway or sidewalk. The obligation of the city shall extend only to
clearing of the public roadway or sidewalk and any further restoration or
complete removal of the tree and its cost shall be borne by the homeowner.
   (C)   Trees on private property. Property owners are responsible for
removing or trimming any tree or shrub that extends over, or obstructs, any
street, sidewalk, city sign or right of way. Property owners are also
responsible for removing or trimming any diseased, dead or dying tree or shrub;
which, if it falls, could obstruct the right of way, endanger life or limb, or
impact utilities. The City Arborist shall determine whether any tree or shrub
meets these criteria and advise the Citation Officer on pruning or removal;
with said pruning or removal by the homeowner to occur within 30 days of the
notice.
   (D)   Maintenance of sidewalks and drainage. It shall be unlawful for the
owner or resident of any property abutting any public way to permit weeds or
vegetation (other than properly cut grass) to grow or remain in the area
between his or her property line and the paved portion of the street and it
shall be the duty of such abutting owner, or resident, to maintain the grass in
the unpaved portion of the public way adjacent to his or her property and to
keep sidewalks and drainage swales adjacent to said property free from
obstruction.
   (E)   Tree incentive program. The Tree Board and City Arborist, as part of
its annual tree work plan, shall submit a proposal to incentivize the planting,
re-planting and maintenance of trees in the city. The proposal shall contain
specific criteria for a cost-sharing between the property owners and the city,
based on clear and certain public purpose spending and accounting standards.
Additionally, the details of said incentive program must be approved by the
City Council each year as part of the Tree Board’s annual budget and a not to
exceed amount for the incentive program shall be set by the City Council each
year. Awards of any of the funds after the approval of the incentive program
shall be administered by the Tree Board, who shall report on same to the City
Council.
(Ord. 5, Series 2013-2014, passed 1-7-2014; Am. Ord. 6, Series 2015-2016,
passed 4-5-2016)
§ 38.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If a property owner does not comply with a notice from the city about
a provision of this subchapter, the Mayor, at the recommendation of the Tree
Board, may hire and send specialists or contractors upon a property,
accompanied by the City Citation Officer, to carry out the requirements of the
notice. If the owner is responsible for the cost according to this subchapter,
the city may then bill the property owner for the cost, and it not paid, file a
lien to recover the cost.
   (B)   Any person found to have violated this subchapter shall be subject to
a fine of not less than $100 and not more than $500 per occurrence. The amount
of the fine shall be recommended by the Tree Board and approved by the City
Council.
   (C)   No person shall be fined for any violation of this subchapter without
first having been notified in writing by the city of the violation and having
been given 30 days to correct the violation or to appeal the fine.
(Ord. 5, Series 2013-2014, passed 1-7-2014; Am. Ord. 6, Series 2015-2016,
passed 4-5-2016)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Placement; collection and removal
Dumpsters
   
50.15   Definition
   
50.16   Regulation
   
50.17   Exceptions
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 PLACEMENT; COLLECTION AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   No garbage, grass or trash shall be placed at the curb side before 3:
00 p.m., the day prior to pickup.
   (B)   All garbage cans and items not collected shall be removed from the
curb side by 7:00 p.m., the day of pickup.
   (C)   During the fall of the year, leaves may be placed at the curb side the
day prior to pickup after 3:00 p.m., as provided in division (A).
   (D)   The placement of garbage, grass, leaves or trash at the curb side
shall be at least five feet from the property line.
(Ord. 830.1, Series 1991, passed 1-8-91) Penalty, see §
10.99
DUMPSTERS
§ 50.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DUMPSTERS. Storage container units designed for waste materials, not
including any of the containers provided by any waste disposal company hired by
the city for garbage, yard waste or recycling, nor any regular-sized waste
containers (less than 100 gallons) used by residents for regular trash
collection.
(Ord. 5, Series 2009-2010, passed 3-3-2009)
§ 50.16 REGULATION.
   (A)   Dumpsters units shall be allowed in the city more than 20 days only
upon the issuance of a permit by the city. Permits shall be displayed on the
outside of the container in such manner as to be plainly visible from the
nearest street. The fee for permits shall be $50 per unit, except that there
shall be no fee or permit required if such containers are located on a site for
less than 20 days.
   (B)   Each permit application must be filled out and signed by the owners of
the lot on which the temporary storage unit is to be located and contain all
relevant contact information for both the owners and the company from which the
unit is to be rented.
   (C)   Dumpsters must be located only on the driveway, as far back on the
drive as possible and at no time may it be placed on the street. Such unit
shall be located no closer than ten feet to any property line.
   (D)   No dumpster unit may be used to contain any hazardous material. Any
possible hazardous material must be disclosed to the city at the time the
permit application is made for review by the property city official, prior to
the issuance of any permit.
   (E)   Dumpster must be in good condition, with no significant rust or
deterioration. They cannot be greater than eight feet in height, ten feet in
width and 20 feet in length.
   (F)   Permits are good for a period of 20 days. There are no extensions.
Only one permit for each home each year.
(Ord. 5, Series 2009-2010, passed 3-3-2009) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.17 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   In the case of emergencies, such as floods, wind storms, fires or
other acts of God, or man-made disasters, the Mayor shall be allowed to suspend
the enforcement of this subchapter as to the city as a whole, or areas of the
city, for a time period appropriate for the community to deal with such
emergency conditions.
   (B)   Due to the physical requirements of construction, or re-construction
of houses, special rules shall govern dumpsters at construction or re-
construction sites. On any site on which a building permit is to be issued,
prior to the city issuing a letter of compliance, the applicant shall submit
all information required under §
50.16(A) and (B), however, the Mayor is authorized to extend the time the units
may remain on site; the number of units allowed and the locations they may be
placed. This decision shall be made with due regard to the physical limitation
of the work to be accomplished on the site, on a case by case basis.
(Ord. 5, Series 2009-2010, passed 3-3-2009)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
50.15 through
50.17 shall be guilty of a violation and fined not less than $20 nor more than
$100.
      (2)   Where Kentucky Revised Statutes mandates a fine higher than that
stipulated herein, the fine contained in Kentucky Revised Statutes shall apply.
      (3)   Any continuing violation of §§
50.15 through
50.17 shall be considered a separate and distinct offense for each day on which
a violation occurs or continues, and a separate penalty may be imposed
therefor.
   (B)   Civil.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
50.15 through
50.17 shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in an amount equal to two
times the minimum fine prescribed herein, with a minimum civil penalty of $50
for each violation.
      (2)   The civil penalty provided herein may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender does not pay the penalty
within 20 days after the offender has been cited for the violation. As used
herein “cited” shall mean notified of the violation and the penalty in writing
by an elected or appointed official of the city or the official attorney for
the city. The civil penalty may be used as an alternative to or in conjunction
with the criminal penalties authorized herein.
(Ord. 5, Series 2009-2010, passed 3-3-2009)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
71.   GOLF CARTS AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Manner of parking
   
70.02   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
70.03   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
70.04   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
70.05   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
70.06   Owner responsibility
   
70.07   Recreational vehicles
   
70.08   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
70.09   Required notice to owner
   
70.10   Sale of vehicle
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within one foot of and parallel with the curb, except that
on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side, the two left
wheels are to be within one foot of and parallel with the curb.
(Ord. 3, Series 2018, passed 10-2-2018) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stop or park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic control device, in the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk or on a driveway blocking a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a sidewalk ramp providing for handicapped access;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)    Within a crosswalk;
      (5)   At any place where an official sign prohibits parking;
      (6)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign
or traffic control signal;
      (7)   Within 15 feet of each side of the approach to any fire hydrant;
      (8)   Any place the curb is painted red or yellow;
      (9)   In any manner that will affect the normal flow of traffic;
      (10)   On any bridge, overpass or causeway;
      (11)   In front of any public or private driveway;
      (12)   In the front, side, street side, or rear of a residence, except on
a hard surface of asphalt or concrete;
      (13)   Park or stop a vehicle in a space reserved for the handicapped
without the proper permit;
      (14)   Backed to the curb.
   (B)   The maximum number of vehicles permitted on any residential lot in the
city shall be:
      (1)   Five passenger vehicles (pick-up trucks, vans and other vehicles
not exceeding 6,000 pounds GVW shall be considered as a passenger vehicle);
and/or
      (2)   One recreation vehicle (motor home/camper or travel trailer) parked
in compliance with this chapter.
   (C)   No commercial or similar vehicle, school bus nor any farm or
construction equipment (machinery) shall be parked or displayed in the front,
side or street side yard of any residence. Commercial vehicles shall be
considered vehicles with a gross vehicle weight of over 6,000 pounds.
   (D)   The following are exceptions to this chapter:
      (1)   Motor vehicles when required to stop in obedience to the provision
of any section of the Kentucky Revised Statutes or any traffic ordinance,
regulation, or sign or the command of any police officer.
      (2)   Vehicles operating in the city as service providers, such as common
carriers for goods or passengers, service vehicles such as garbage trucks and
other service providers and school buses taking passengers on such vehicles or
discharging passengers therefrom, provided that no such vehicles shall stop for
such purpose at a place on the roadway which does not afford reasonable
visibility to approaching motor vehicles from both directions.
      (3)   Vehicles may be backed to the curb when loading and unloading
provided that the loading and unloading and delivery of property and material
shall not consume more than 30 minutes and provided it does not interfere with
the use of the roadway by moving vehicles or occupies road space within ten
feet of the center line of the street.
(Ord. 3, Series 2018, passed 10-2-2018) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof stopping
or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority of or by
this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed, or
parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted to
handicapped parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice thereof.
However, in lieu of erecting signs or in conjunction therewith, the face and
top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is prohibited at all
times may be painted a solid yellow color. No regulations or restrictions shall
be effective unless the signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs
are painted yellow at the time of any alleged offense, except in the case of
those parking restrictions which by their very nature would not require the
signs and markings.
   (B)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at those times herein specified or as indicated on
official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
official traffic-control devices.
   (C)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of vehicles in
specific places or at specified times.
(Ord. 3, Series 2018, passed 10-2-2018) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING,
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day. It may be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop
on any street so designated.
(Ord. 3, Series 2018, passed 10-2-2018) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall remain on the street for a period of 24 consecutive
hours. This section shall not apply to a vehicle that has been disabled on the
main traveled portion of the roadway for 48 hours or less.
   (B)   Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or
streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed
abandoned and shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city
pertaining to abandoned motor vehicles.
(Ord. 3, Series 2018, passed 10-2-2018)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this chapter regulating stopping, standing or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
(Ord. 3, Series 2018, passed 10-2-2018) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   No watercraft or watercraft trailer, utility trailer, recreational
vehicle, motor home, bus, tractor, trailer or camper shall be parked or stored
in a front, side or street side yard or on the street; except that it may be
parked or stored ten feet behind the rear wall of the residence on a hard
surface of asphalt or concrete, or in a garage. No recreational vehicle shall
be used for living, sleeping or housekeeping purposes when parked or stored on
a residential lot or in any location not approved for the use. No vacant lot
shall be used for the storage of any watercraft, recreational vehicle, motor
home, bus, tractor, trailer or camper.
   (B)   No parking, loading or unloading of recreational vehicles or equipment
shall be permitted on any residential street; and no off-street parking,
loading or unloading area including maneuvering areas and aisles shall be
permitted within the required front or street side yard of any lot with a
principal building. Short time parking is permitted for the sole purpose of
loading or unloading, the time not to exceed four hours. No vehicle covered by
this section shall be parked on any city street between sunset and sunrise.
   (C)   For purpose of this section, RECREATIONAL VEHICLES OR EQUIPMENT is
defined as including boats and boat trailers: travel trailers, pick-up campers
or coaches (designed to be mounted on automotive vehicles), motorized
dwellings, tent trailers and similar vehicles, and cases or boxes used for
transporting recreational equipment, whether occupied by the equipment or not.
Pick-up trucks with campers attached, or similar vehicles, which are used for
normal work-day transportation are excluded from the definition while in
regular use for such purposes. A visitor's permit valid for seven days
permitting parking of a recreational vehicle on a driveway may be obtained from
the Building Coordinator for a fee of $2.
(Ord. 3, Series 2018, passed 10-2-2018) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All police officers, or City Citation Officer, are empowered to
authorize the impoundment of a vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinances
after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department. Should a vehicle be moved without the consent
and approval of the Police Department a warrant shall be issued immediately for
the violator's arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle's release.
(Ord. 3, Series 2018, passed 10-2-2018)
§ 70.09 REQUIRED NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported
pursuant to order of police, other public authority or private person or
business for any reason; when the vehicle has been stolen or misappropriated,
and its removal from the public ways has been ordered by police, other public
authority or by private person or business; or in any other situation where a
motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported by order of police,
other authority or by private person or business, the police, other authority
or private person or business shall attempt to ascertain from the State
Transportation Cabinet the identity of the registered owner of the motor
vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as defined in KRS Chapter 281 and within
ten business days of the removal shall, by certified mail, attempt to notify
the registered owner at the address of record of the make, model, license
number and vehicle identification number of the vehicle, of the location of the
vehicle, and of the requirements for securing the release of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   If a vehicle described in division (A) above is placed in a garage or
other storage facility, the owner of the facility shall attempt to provide the
notice provided in division (A) by certified mail to the registered owner at
the address of record of the motor vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as
defined in KRS Chapter 281 within ten business days of recovery of or taking
possession of the motor vehicle. This notice shall contain the information as
to the make, model, license number and vehicle identification number of the
vehicle, the location of the vehicle, and the amount of reasonable charges due
on the vehicle. When the owner of the facility fails to provide notice as
provided herein, the motor vehicle storage facility shall forfeit all storage
fees accrued after ten business days from the date of tow. This division (B)
shall not apply to a tow lot or storage facility owned or operated by the city.
(Ord. 3, Series 2018, passed 10-2-2018)
§ 70.10 SALE OF VEHICLE.
   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor vehicles in
either a private capacity or for the city who has substantially complied with
the requirements of §
70.09 shall have a lien on the motor vehicle for the reasonable or agreed
charges for storing or towing the vehicle as long as it remains in his or her
possession. If, after a period of 45 days, the reasonable or agreed charges for
storing or towing a motor vehicle have not been paid, the motor vehicle may be
sold to pay the charges after the owner has been notified by certified mail ten
days prior to the time and place of the sale. If the proceeds of the sale of
any vehicle pursuant to this section are insufficient to satisfy accrued
charges for towing, transporting and storage, the sale and collection of
proceeds shall not constitute a waiver or release of responsibility for payment
of unpaid towing, transporting and storage charges by the owner or responsible
casualty insurer of the vehicle. This lien shall be subject to prior recorded
liens.
(Ord. 3, Series 2018, passed 10-2-2018)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
    (A)   Any violation of this chapter shall subject the offender to a civil
penalty in an amount equal to the minimum fine prescribed by this chapter. Such
civil penalty may be recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of a
debt if the offender has been cited for the ordinance violation. The civil
penalty may be used as an alternative to or in conjunction with the criminal
penalties authorized.
   (B)   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city
shall be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be fined in an amount
not less than $20 nor more than $100.
   (C)   Any vehicle abandoned or illegally parked on the public ways may be
removed at the direction of the city to a tow lot designated by the city. The
vehicle may be reclaimed by the owner at the owner's expense including all
towing and storage charges and payment of all fines imposed by the city.
(Ord. 3, Series 2018, passed 10-2-2018)
CHAPTER 71: GOLF CARTS AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
Section
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   Roadways open for golf cart and all-terrain vehicle use
   
71.03   Operation of golf carts and all-terrain vehicles on city streets
   
71.04   Qualifications for operation of golf carts and all-terrain vehicles on
city streets
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle used for recreational off-road use.
   CITY. The City of St. Regis Park, Kentucky.
   GOLF CART. Any self-propelled vehicle that:
      (1)   Is designed for the transportation of players or maintaining
equipment on a golf course, while engaged in the playing of golf, or
maintaining the condition of the grounds on a golf course;
      (2)   Has a minimum of four wheels;
      (3)   Is designed to operate at a speed of not more than 35 miles per
hour;
      (4)   Is designed to carry not more than six persons, including the
driver;
      (5)   Has a maximum gross vehicle weight of 2,500 pounds;
      (6)   Has a maximum rated payload capacity of 1,200 pounds; and
      (7)   Meets the federal motor vehicle safety standards for low-speed
vehicles set forth in 49 CFR § 571.500.
   HIGHWAY. Any public road, street, avenue, alley or boulevard, bridge,
viaduct, or trestle and the approaches to them and includes private residential
roads and parking lots covered by an agreement under KRS 61.362, off-street
parking facilities offered for public use, whether publicly or privately owned,
except for-hire parking facilities listed in KRS 189.700.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   (a)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of
the lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two highways which join one another, but do not necessarily
continue, at approximately right angles, or the area within which vehicles
traveling upon different highways joining at any other angle may come into
conflict; or
         (b)   Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. If the intersecting
highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, every crossing of two
roadways of the highways shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      (2)   The junction of a private alley with a public street or highway
shall not constitute an intersection.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Includes all vehicles except:
      (1)   Road rollers;
      (2)   Road graders;
      (3)   Farm tractors;
      (4)   Vehicles on which power shovels are mounted;
      (5)   Construction equipment customarily used only on the site of
construction and which is not practical for the transportation of persons or
property upon the highways;
      (6)   Vehicles that travel exclusively upon rails; and
      (7)   Vehicles propelled by muscular power.
   OPERATOR. The person in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes
two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as used herein shall refer to
any roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
   VEHICLE. Includes:
      (1)   All agencies for the transportation of persons or property over or
upon the public highways of the Commonwealth; and
      (2)   All vehicles passing over or upon the highways.
(Ord. 5, Series 2018, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 71.02 ROADWAYS OPEN FOR GOLF CART AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE USE.
   (A)   The roadways subject to the provisions of this section are those
portions of any public road within the City of St. Regis Park, Kentucky that
have a posted speed limit of 35 miles per hour or less; however, the Mayor, or
the Mayor's designee, is hereby granted the authority to determine if a
particular street, road or section thereof should be withdrawn from the scope
of this section in the interest of public safety, and, upon such a
determination and its publication and passage by the City Council, pursuant to
the requirements of KRS Chapter 424, such determination to remove any section
of public roadway in the city from the scope of this section shall become an
administrative regulation that is enforceable as a provision of law under this
section.
   (B)   The two roadways that are excluded from the use of golf carts and all-
terrain vehicles are Browns Lane and Lowe Road because of the high volume of
traffic and their role as connectors.
(Ord. 5, Series 2018, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 71.03 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES ON CITY STREETS.
   A person may operate a golf cart or all-terrain vehicle on a city street if:
   (A)   The posted speed limit of the city street is 35 miles per hour or
less;
   (B)   The operator of the low speed vehicle does not cross a roadway at an
intersection where the roadway being crossed has a posted speed limit of more
than 35 miles per hour;
   (C)   The operator has a valid operator's license in his or her possession;
   (D)   The low speed vehicle is being operated between sunrise and sunset;
   (E)   The low speed vehicle displays a slow-moving vehicle emblem in
compliance with KRS 189.820;
   (F)   The operator and all passengers use all safety equipment with which
the golf cart or all-terrain vehicle is equipped;
   (G)   No more than the maximum number of occupants for which the golf cart
or all-terrain vehicle is designed are onboard; and
   (H)   The all-terrain vehicle has at least one headlight and two taillights,
which shall be illuminated at all times the vehicle is in operation.
(Ord. 5, Series 2018, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 71.04 QUALIFICATIONS FOR OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES ON
CITY STREETS.
   (A)   A golf cart or ATV operating on a city street shall be insured in
compliance with KRS 304.39-080 by the owner or operator, and the proof of
insurance shall be inside the vehicle at all times of operation on a city
street.
   (B)   Any person operating a low speed vehicle on a city street shall be
subject to the traffic regulations of KRS Chapter 189.
   (C)   A golf cart or ATV operated on a city street shall:
      (1)   Prior to seeking a city permit, be inspected by a certified
inspector designated by the County Sheriff and certified through the Department
of Vehicle Regulation to ensure that the vehicle complies with the requirements
of KRS 189.286. The inspection fee under this section shall not exceed $5 with
an additional fee not to exceed $10 per trip charged if it becomes necessary
for the certified inspector to travel to the site of the golf cart rather than
having the golf cart brought to the Sheriff's inspection area;
      (2)   Be issued a sticker or permit for the golf cart or ATV by the city.
The fee for an initial permit or sticker for low speed vehicle from the city
shall be $25. A permit shall be valid until the first day of March of the
following year. The fee for a renewal permit or sticker from the city shall be
$15; and
      (3)   Display the permit or sticker issued by the city on the front of
the vehicle that identifies that the golf cart or ATV is allowed to be operated
on city streets.
(Ord. 5, Series 2018, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Operating a golf cart in violation of any provision of this chapter is
a civil offense and as such may be addressed by the City of St. Regis Park. Any
peace officer or citation officer may issue a citation for the violation of any
provision of this chapter. Any person violating a provision of this chapter
shall receive a civil fine of $100 to $500. Any person who violates any
provision of this chapter two or more times within a 12-month period shall
receive a civil fine of $500 to $1,000. Any person who receives a citation for
violation of this chapter may contest the citation by sending written request
for a hearing to the City of St. Regis Park to the address listed on the
citation within seven days of receipt of the citation.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to relieve any person of
any legal duties or obligation created by any other statute or ordinance.
Promulgation of this chapter does not preclude legal enforcement by any peace
officer or traffic control officer of any provision in the Kentucky Revised
Statutes, including the prohibition against operating an unlicensed or
unregistered motor vehicle on the public roads of the Commonwealth unless that
motor vehicle falls within the exceptions created by this chapter or any other
existing law, ordinance or regulation in the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
(Ord. 5, Series 2018, passed 2-5-2019)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   [RESERVED]
      
94.   LITTERING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Noise disturbance
   
90.04   [Reserved]
   
90.05   [Reserved]
   
90.06   Removing and discarding animal wastes
   
90.07   Vaccinations required
   
90.08   Animals attacking and biting
   
90.09   Animals in heat
   
90.10   Animals in city limits; prohibitions
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. Abandonment shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and
claims by the owner to the animal. (KRS 257.100(4))
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his agent either by leash, cord, chain or otherwise.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his care, or permits it to remain on
or about the premises owned or occupied by him.
§ 90.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane or alley, or upon or enclosure
without the consent of the owner of the yard, lot or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by the animal upon the premises
of another.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the city which, by frequent
and habitual barking, howling, or yelping, creates unreasonably loud and
disturbing noises of such a character, intensity, and duration as to disturb
the peace, quiet, and good order of one or more of the inhabitants of two or
more separate residences. Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to
remain, be lodged, or fed within any dwelling, yard, or enclosure which he
occupies or owns shall be considered as harboring the dog.
(Ord. 6, Series 2003-2004, passed 5-4-04) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 [RESERVED.]
§ 90.05 [RESERVED.]
§ 90.06 REMOVING AND DISCARDING ANIMAL WASTES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or person in charge of a dog, cat
or any other animal to permit the animal to be on public property, or any
private property other than that of the owner or person in charge or control of
the animal without the permission of the owner of the property, or on any
streets, sidewalks or rights-of-way in the city, without the owner or person in
charge of the animals to have in his or her possession, a suitable device for
the picking up, collection and proper sanitary disposal of the animal feces or
manure.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or person in charge of a dog, cat
or any other animal to permit or allow the animal to excrete manure or feces on
public property, or on any private property other than that of the owner or
person in charge or control of the animal without the permission of the owner
of the property, or on any streets, sidewalks or rights-of-way in the city,
unless the owner or person in control of the animal immediately removes all
feces deposited by the animal and disposes of same in a sanitary manner.
(Ord. 820, Series 1990, passed - -90)
§ 90.07 VACCINATIONS REQUIRED.
   No person shall keep within the city any domestic animal that has not been
vaccinated against rabies, as required by KRS 258.015.
(Ord. 840.9, Series 1982, passed 5-4-82) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 ANIMALS ATTACKING AND BITING.
   No person shall harbor or keep any domestic animal which shall bite or
attack any person or other animal.
(Ord. 840.9, Series 1982, passed 5-4-82) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Handling of vicious or attacking dog, see KRS. 258.235
§ 90.09 ANIMALS IN HEAT.
   No owner or keeper of a female animal in heat shall permit the animal to go
beyond the premises of the owner or keeper at any time she is in heat, unless
properly leashed.
(Ord. 840.9, Series 1982, passed 5-4-82) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 ANIMALS IN CITY LIMITS; PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to keep within the city limits any swine, sheep, goats,
horses, ponies, chickens or cattle.
(Ord. 840.9, Series 1982, passed 5-4-82; Am. Ord. 6, Series 2013, passed 3-5-
13) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day
the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
90.06 shall be guilty of a violation and shall be punishable by a fine of no
less than $5 and no more than $25 per violation.
(Ord. 820, Series 1990, passed - -90; Am. Ord. 9, Series 2000-2001, passed 6-5-
2001)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
91.01   Opening permit required
   
91.02   Application and cash deposit
   
91.03   Restoration of pavement
   
91.04   Barriers around excavations
   
91.05   Warning lights
   
91.06   Sidewalk construction
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.15   Public hearing required
   
91.16   Notice requirements
   
91.17   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
91.18   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
91.19   Separate hearing for each project not required
   
91.20   Exemptions from hearing requirement
Obstructions
   
91.30   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.31   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.32   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.33   Removal of ice and snow
   
91.34   Correction of obstructions
Speed Humps
   
91.45   Definitions
   
91.46   Eligibility requirements
   
91.47   Removal and alteration
   
91.48   Location
   
91.49   Design standards and procedures
   
91.50   Installation procedures
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Improvements, see §§
33.20 through
33.28
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 92
   Traffic Code, see Title VII
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized city official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the legislative body, giving the exact location of the
proposed opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated, and
other facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after a
cash deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with
the authorized city official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory
refilling of excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 91.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized city
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations and specifications approved
by the legislative body.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface and remove all excess materials within the time
specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a reasonable
time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without notice to
make the fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
91.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate city fund, except the part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of the services performed by the city
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
§ 91.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   No property owner shall cause damage to the sidewalk located on or
adjacent to the owner’s property, by allowing vegetation to heave and crack the
sidewalk, or allowing any condition to exist that causes damage to the
sidewalk.
   (B)   The determination of whether a particular sidewalk was damaged by the
actions of a resident shall be made by engineers selected by the city and/or
the city’s Code Enforcement Officer.
   (C)   (1)   If a particular section of the sidewalk within the corporate
boundaries of the city does not meet the standards as determined in division
(B) above, and thus exists in a state of disrepair including, but not limited
to conditions which have resulted in the sidewalk being marred, pocked, broken,
cracked, and the like, or otherwise presents a hazard to the general public,
the City Clerk, or the Mayor’s designee, shall notify the property owners in
writing, sent via first-class mail, of the condition and request the property
owner(s) to make necessary repairs within 30 days of the notice.
      (2)   If the property owner(s) fails to make the necessary repairs within
30 days of the notice, the city may repair the sidewalk so as to eliminate the
state of disrepair, hazard or otherwise make it safe for use by the general
public.
      (3)   Any and all costs of the city in making the repairs under division
(2) above, including, but not limited to labor, materials and supplies, shall
be charged to the appropriate property owner(s) through a written demand
complete with documentation of costs incurred, sent via first-class mail,
within 60 days of the work’s completion.
      (4)   (a)   If the city’s written demand for costs incurred pursuant to
the repair of sidewalks under division (3) above remains unpaid in any part
without reasonable justification for a period of 30 days after notice is
received by the property owner(s), a 10% penalty shall be added to the unpaid
balance of the repair costs.
         (b)   An additional compounded 1% interest will be added on the
balance for each month in which an unpaid balance remains.
      (5)   The city retains the right to file a lien against the subject
property to secure the unpaid balance of the costs of repairs completed at the
city’s expense, with filing and attorney’s fees to be added to the amount of
the lien, at any point after 30 days of the date written notice is sent to the
property owner(s) under division (3) above.
   (D)   Sidewalks within the city shall be inspected annually during the first
quarter of the year by the engineers and/or the city’s Code Enforcement
Officer. A written report shall be submitted to the Council, recommending
repairs after the inspection is completed.
(Ord. 5, Series 1995-1996, passed 9-5-95; Am. Ord. 3, Series 2012-2013, passed
8-7-12)
Statutory reference:
   Sidewalks; construction along public roads; specifications, see KRS 178.290
   Sidewalks; ramps for wheelchairs, see KRS 66.660
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.15 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
    Before the city expends state derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street or bridge it shall provide an opportunity to the public to provide
input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS 61.823(2)
to (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax moneys for
road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 91.16 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
    Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a specific
item on the public meeting agenda and shall allow any person to speak with
regard to any proposed project, any project which he or she feels should be
built or done which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of
projects, and any other matter related to road or bridge projects.
(KRS 174.100(1))
§ 91.17 PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100(2))
§ 91.18 HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting as provided herein
has been held.
(KRS 174.100(3))
§ 91.19 SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting for
each project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
meeting, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(4))
§ 91.20 EXEMPTIONS FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions herein shall not apply to emergency repair or replacement of
roads or bridges necessitated by natural or man-caused disasters nor to street
cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100(5))
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.30 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Littering, see
Chapter 94
§ 91.33 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his premises free and clear of snow and ice to the extent
feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove therefrom all
snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, a
reasonable time which will ordinarily not exceed 12 hours after the abatement
of any storm during which the snow and ice may have accumulated.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.34 CORRECTION OF OBSTRUCTIONS.
   The city may correct any condition that exists in the right-of-way of any
street in the city, or any easement in the city which hinders or obstructs the
flow of traffic or could result in personal injury or property damage within
the easement or right-of-way.
(Ord. 4, Series 1996-1997, passed 1-7-1997)
SPEED HUMPS
§ 91.45 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions apply for the purposes of this subchapter.
   AFFECTED RESIDENTS AND PROPERTY OWNERS. Both residents and property owners
who live or own property on a low-density residential street, which has
vehicular access to and is located within the same block (measured intersection
to intersection) as any proposed speed hump;
   APPLICATIONS FOR SPEED HUMPS. Include a petition of affected residents and
property owners.
   FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION.  “The process by which streets and highways are
grouped into classes or systems according to the character of service they are
intended to provide.” (Highway Functional Classification and Needs Study
Manual)
      (a)   ARTERIAL SYSTEM. Provides for through traffic movement between
areas and across the city with limited access to abutting property.
      (b)   COLLECTOR SYSTEM. Provides for traffic movement between arterials
and local streets, with limited access to abutting properties.
      (c)   LOCAL SYSTEM.  Provides direct access to abutting properties.
   MUTCD.  Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
   SPEED HUMPS. Geometric design features of a roadway, consisting of a raised
area in the roadway pavement surface, extending transversely across the travel
way, whose primary purpose is to reduce the speed of vehicles traveling along
the roadway.
(Ord. 3, Series 2019-2020, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 91.46 ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   All of the following criteria must be satisfied for a street to be
considered eligible for speed hump installation.
   (A)    Petition. The process to request a speed hump begins with the
submittal of petitions documenting written approval from 70% of the households
within the same block, measured intersection to intersection, as the proposed
hump. Each residential structure located between the two intersections where
the speed hump is proposed shall count as one voting unit. The vote recorded
for each residential unit shall be the majority of all those over the age of 18
who are either living at that residential unit and/or are the property owners.
If 70% of the total number of residential structures, as defined herein, is not
a whole number, it will be rounded up to the next whole number. If no petitions
are received from a household, that household will be counted as a no vote.
Only the city’s official petition form may be used to vote.
   (B)    Location of the street. The land uses of the properties abutting the
street where the speed hump is proposed must be composed of low-density
residential dwellings.
   (C)    Operational characteristics of the street.
      (1)   The street must be used to provide access to abutting low-density
residential properties. The street must not be identified as a collector or
higher-level street, as defined by the Jefferson County Comprehensive Plan,
Core Graphic.
      (2)   There must be no more than one moving lane of traffic in each
direction.
      (3)   The street must have a speed limit of 25 mph as determined in
accordance with this code of ordinances.
      (4)   The street must not be so close to a Fire Department facility as to
significantly interfere with emergency vehicle operations.
   (D)    Geometric characteristics of the street.
      (1)   The street must have adequate sight distances to safely accommodate
the hump as determined, in writing, by the city, as defined in the Traffic
Engineering Handbook.
      (2)   The street must not have curves or grades that prevent safe
placement of the humps. Humps may be located on streets that contain curves
and/or grades, but the hump, itself, shall not be located within a significant
horizontal curve, or a vertical grade greater than 8%.
      (3)   The street must be paved. If there are no curbs, a special design
of speed hump must be used to prevent vehicles from going around the speed
hump.
(Ord. 3, Series 2019-2020, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 91.47 REMOVAL AND ALTERATION.
   The process for speed hump removal or alteration by citizens is the same as
the process for installation.
(Ord. 3, Series 2019-2020, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 91.48 LOCATION.
   The exact speed hump location is subject to traffic safety and operations
requirements and shall be as determined by the city’s engineering consultant.
(Ord. 3, Series 2019-2020, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 91.49 DESIGN STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The installation and design of speed humps shall comply with the
Institute of Transportation Engineers, Recommended Practice, Guidelines for the
Design and Application of Speed Humps. All signage and pavement markings shall
comply with the current edition of the MUTCD. Should signage and markings not
be defined in the MUTCD, they shall comply with ITE’s Recommended Practice,
Guidelines for the Design and Application of Speed Humps.
   (B)   Please note that these guidelines and the state and national laws that
govern them require warnings for motorists that a speed hump is on the road.
They require markings on the road showing the speed hump’s location and/or
street signs on posts that warn of an upcoming speed hump. The signs are an
integral part of placing a speed hump on a roadway; the installation of a speed
hump without these signs is illegal.
(Ord. 3, Series 2019-2020, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 91.50 INSTALLATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)    The initial request for the installation of speed humps must
originate with the residents and/or property owners on the street. As stated
above, owners and renters of property are each allowed to weigh in on the
decision equally. The process to request a speed hump begins with the submittal
of petitions documenting written approval from 70% of the households within the
same block, measured intersection to intersection, as the proposed hump. Each
residential structure located between the two intersections where the speed
hump is proposed shall count as one voting unit. The vote recorded for each
residential unit shall be the majority of all those over the age of 18 who are
either living at that residential unit and/or are the property owners. If 70%
of the total number of residential structures, as defined herein, is not a
whole number, it will be rounded up to the next whole number. If no petitions
are received from a household, that household will be counted as a no vote.
Only the city’s official petition form may be used to vote. A request in
writing with such petition must be forwarded to the city address of:
      City of St Regis Park
      Attn: City Clerk
      P.O. Box 20429
      Louisville, KY 40250
   (B)   After verification of the petition(s), the city may conduct
transportation engineering studies, including but not limited to, traffic
volume, accident and speed studies, and solicit comments and recommendations of
other agencies, including but not limited to, emergency services. The City
Council shall determine whether to install the humps, based on the all the
studies, final design and the installation costs. The city will make
determination of eligibility based on available data in a timely matter.
      (1)   If the street is determined not to be eligible, the applicant’s
representative will be given written notification of that determination and its
reasons. Any denial may be appealed in writing to the City Council within 15
days of the notification date.
      (2)   If the application for the speed hump installation is determined to
be eligible for consideration, a meeting will be arranged between the
applicant’s representative and the appropriate city staff to discuss the
installation. The final design, including specific location of the speed humps
and the signs required for the humps, will be approved at the next regularly
scheduled city meeting. All the residents on the petitions submitted will be
noticed with the date, location and time of the meeting so that they can
attend.
(Ord. 3, Series 2019-2020, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $500.
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.03   Property maintenance standards
   
92.04   Responsibility for property maintenance
   
92.05   Nuisance created by others
   
92.06   Suspension of license
 
   
92.99   Enforcement and Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Private nuisances, see KRS 411.500 - 411.570
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS. Any portion or parts of any motor driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Unable to move under its own power due to defective
or missing parts, and which has remained in the condition for a period of not
less than ten consecutive days.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any style or type of motor driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any act, thing, occupation, condition or use of property
which shall continue for a length of time as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure or endanger the comfort, health, repose
or safety of the public;
      (2)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or tend to
obstruct or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
stream, ditch or drainage; or
      (3)   Essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tend to depreciate the value of property of others.
   SCRAP METAL. Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum or
any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE. In a dangerous condition; having defective or missing
parts; or in a condition generally as to be unfit for further use as a
conveyance.
§ 92.02 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of Kentucky as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided
in this chapter or in accordance with any other provision of law.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   It is hereby declared to be a public nuisance for any property owner (or
other person in control of the property) to keep or maintain property,
premises, or rights-of-way adjacent to the premises, in such a manner which
causes, or tends to cause, substantial diminution in value of other properties,
or which renders such properties as dangerous, or detrimental, or adverse to
the health, or welfare, or offensive to the senses of the residents of the
city. This includes, but is not limited to, the following conditions, which are
hereby declared a nuisance.
   (A)   Grass. All grass within the city limits shall be limited to nine
inches in height. All curbs shall be maintained to prohibit any grass from
growing over the curb.
   (B)   Walkway obstruction. All owners of property abutting a sidewalk shall
maintain an unobstructed walkway of at least eight feet in height. Branches or
trees and shrubs shall not encroach upon any sidewalk, sidewalk height
restriction, nor the 13 feet, six inch vertical clearance required above any
roadway.
   (C)   Non-ornamental vegetation. Unhealthful and non-ornamental plant growth
is not allowed, such as but not limited, to jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle,
cocklebur; or any other growth (or volunteer overgrowth) of a like kind, not
intended for ornamental aesthetic appeal, or other legitimate purpose.
Legitimate purpose is defined as crops, trees, bushes, flower, ornamental
plants.
   (D)   Incomplete projects. Any renovation or construction to structures or
grounds must be completed through consistent, sustained effort and no such
building or grounds under construction or renovation may be allowed to be
uncompleted for an unreasonable length of time, given due consideration to the
type of project. A period of 120 days without consistent, sustained effort to
complete the project will be an unreasonable length of time, without
sufficient, specific, written explanation for the delay.
   (E)   Any premises which detrimentally impacts the surrounding neighborhood
because of dilapidation, deterioration or decay or is unsafe for the purpose
for which it is being used or is not secured or is improperly secured.
   (F)   Permits any structure/residence to become unfit and/or unsafe for
human habitation or occupancy, or to permit condition to exist in the structure
which is dangerous or injurious to the health or safety of the occupants or the
structure, the occupants of neighboring structures, or other residences of the
city. All residences within the city shall have a safe and operable connection
to water, electric/gas, and sewer services. Residents who are in the process of
construction and are in compliance with division (A) of this section are exempt
from this section during the construction.
   (G)   Permits or causes the interface with any obstruction of a drainage
ditch, device or system as to inhibit, alter, or prevent proper drainage
patterns.
   (H)   Permits the accumulation of ashes, leaves, wood, lumber, limbs, twigs,
storm debris and/or any residue from the burning of any combustible material.
   (I)   Any tree, stack, or other object standing in such a condition that is
likely to, if the condition is allowed to continue, endanger life, limb or
property, or cause hurt, damage or injury to persons or property by falling
thereof or of parts thereof.
   (J)   Permits the dropping, deposit, or acquiesce in the dropping,
depositing, scattering of waste material in any manner, in or on any public or
private property any material of any kind, not including normal yard
maintenance material.
   (K)   Junk; scrap metal, motor vehicles. The storage (unless enclosed within
a garage) of motor vehicles in an inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit
for further use, automobile parts, scrap metal or junk.
   (L)   Permits any condition to exist that is injurious to the public health.
Such as but not limited to:
      (1)   Unlawful storage of explosives.
      (2)   Having an uncovered or insecurely covered cellar, well, pit or any
excavation or situated upon any premises in any open lot or plane that any
reasonable or prudent man should realize should be injurious to human health.
      (3)   The failure to keep an animal’s pen, yard, lot or their enclosure
in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive odors.
      (4)   Permits the presence of polluted water, or the accumulation of any
substance that attracts vermin, rodents, insects, or animals or is otherwise
injurious to the public health.
      (5)   Permits the unlawful burning of any refuse, garbage, or waste or
material of any kind.
      (6)   Play and/or recreational structures or equipment, including, but
not limited to, tents, swing sets, or other play or recreational structure or
equipment may only be placed behind the front wall of the primary residential
structure on any lot.
   (M)   Permits any condition to exist that causes a building or grounds not
to be in good repair. Such as but not limited to:
      (1)   Every window, exterior door, basement, porch, roof, eaves,
foundation, exterior wall, exterior stairs, shall be reasonably watertight,
weathertight, bird, animal, and rodent proof; and shall be kept in sound
condition and good repair.
      (2)   All exterior wood surfaces, other than decay resistant woods, shall
be protected from the elements and decay by paint, which is not lead-based
paint, or by other protective covering or treatment. Any peeling paint is a
violation of this section.
      (3)   All gutters, shutters, down spouts and any other parts of the
exterior of the home shall be maintained in operable condition and be fit for
their intended purpose.
(Ord. 3, Series 2013-2014, passed 9-3-2013) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PROPERTY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The owner or resident of any property within the city shall be
responsible for the maintenance of property and premises in a manner consistent
with the provisions of this chapter and the Code of the City of St. Regis Park,
Metro Louisville Ordinances, Land Development Code, Kentucky Revised Statutes
and the Kentucky Building Code.
   (B)   Enforcement of this chapter may be accomplished by the person or
employee as may be designated by the City Council to enforce city ordinances in
any manner authorized by this chapter or by any other law, including but not
limited to issuance of criminal citations, civil actions and abatement.
   (C)   Abatement of public nuisance; non-exclusive authority to abate. The
city may choose to abate any public nuisance or violation of the city code
through any of the abatement methods set forth in the city code or in other
local, state or federal law, and nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as limiting, prejudicing, or adversely affecting the city’s ability
to concurrently or consecutively use any of these proceedings as the city may
deem are applicable. Proceedings under this section will not prelude the city
from proceeding under other sections of this chapter. Whenever the person or
employee as may be designated by the City Council to enforce city ordinances
determines that any condition exists in violation of the provisions of this
chapter, he or she may take enforcement action pursuant to this section.
(Ord. 3, Series 2013-2014, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 92.05 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care ought to have become aware of.
§ 92.06 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Whenever it is shown that a nuisance is associated with or caused by
the conduct of a business or activity licensed by the city and that the
existence of the nuisance presents an immediate threat to the public health,
safety or welfare, the City Council may suspend the license of the person or
persons conducting the business or activity.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall cause a notice of the suspension to be served
personally upon the licensee, or upon any responsible agent of the licensee, at
the premises where the licensed business or activity is being conducted. The
notice shall clearly inform the licensee of the reason for the suspension, and
the conditions that must be met for the suspension to be removed.
   (C)   Upon application of the licensee, and upon a showing that the nuisance
has been satisfactorily abated and that any other reasonable conditions set
forth in the notice have been met, the City Council may remove the suspension.
§ 92.99 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal or civil penalty. Pursuant to the city’s prosecutorial
discretion, the city may enforce violations of the provisions of this chapter
as criminal, civil or abatement actions.
      (1)   Misdemeanor. Any person who is violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each and every day, during which
any such offense is committed, continued or allowed shall be a separate
offense.
      (2)   Each and every offense under this chapter is punishable by:
         (a)   A fine not exceeding $100 for the first offense;
         (b)   A fine not exceeding $500 for the second offense of the same or
similar provision within one year period; or
         (c)   A fine no less than $1,000 for each additional offense, after
the second, of the same or similar provision of this chapter within a one year
period of the first offense.
   (B)   Enforcement procedures and notice.
      (1)   The city hereby establishes the standards and procedures for the
enforcement of this chapter under KRS 381.770 as follows:
         (a)   Whenever such a situation is discovered, the city person or
employee as may be designated by the City Council to enforce city ordinances
shall give five days written notice to any one or more or all: the owner,
operator, agent, occupant or person having control or management of the
property to remedy such situation.
         (b)   The notice shall be served upon the responsible person as stated
above, by mail, or by personal service. If by mail, it shall be addressed to
the last known address of the owner of the property, as it appears on the
current tax assessment roll. The failure of any or all of the addresses to
receive the notice shall not invalidate any of the proceedings. Further, the
posting of notice of a hearing or order pursuant to this chapter shall be
conclusively deemed to be adequate notice to any and all occupants, users or
possessors of the property or its contents, and the failure of any such
occupant, user or possessor to see, read, understand or otherwise receive the
notice shall not invalidate any of the proceedings. Upon the failure of the
owner of the property to comply, the city is authorized to send employees or
persons hired by the city upon the property to remedy the situation.
      (2)   The city shall have a lien against the property for the reasonable
value of labor and materials used in remedying the situation. The affidavit of
the person or employee as may be designated by the City Council to enforce city
ordinances, shall constitute prima facie evidence of the amount of the lien and
the regularity of the proceedings pursuant to this chapter and KRS 381.770, and
shall be recorded in the Office of the Jefferson County Clerk. The lien shall
be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear interest
thereafter until paid at the rate of 1.5% per month, compounded monthly, and
may be enforced by judicial proceedings.
      (3)   In addition to the remedy described in this section or any other
remedy authorized by law, the owner of a property upon which a lien has been
attached pursuant to this section shall be personally liable for the amount of
the lien, including all interest, civil penalties, and other charges and the
city may bring a civil action against the owner and shall have the same
remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt owed.
   (C)   Appeals. Any action taken by the person or employee as may be
designated by the City Council to enforce city ordinances may be appealed to
the City Council by any person cited hereunder. The appeal must be in writing,
stating with specificity the grounds of the appeal and it must be filed with
the City Clerk within the same time allowed for abatement (without extension).
The grounds for the appeal shall be stated in the appeal in detail. The appeal
shall be heard by the City Council within 60 days of it being filed with the
City Clerk. While such appeal is pending, the abatement notice shall be held in
abeyance.
(Ord. 3, Series 2013-2014, passed 9-3-2013)
CHAPTER 93: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
94.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
94.03   Hauling loose material
   
94.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
94.05   Litter on private property
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley or other
public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of any
kind.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   (A)   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel,
cement, fill dirt or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public place shall haul it, or cause it to be hauled in
vehicles provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any of the contents from falling or being thrown, blown or deposited.
   (B)   Any materials which fall from, or which are thrown, blown or deposited
from any vehicle upon any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place, shall
be removed immediately by the person in charge of the vehicle.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in a manner that litter will be prevented from being
carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks or other public
places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city whether owned by that person or not.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day the violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   [RESERVED]
      
111.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
      
112.   DOOR-TO-DOOR SALES
      
113.   RENTAL PROPERTIES
CHAPTER 110: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 111: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
111.01   Imposition of license fee
   
111.02   Fees to be paid to general revenue fund
   
111.03   Basis for license fee
   
111.04   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
111.05   Due date; interest and refunds
   
111.06   Written breakdown of collections
   
111.07   Inspection of records and accounts
   
111.08   Liability of agents
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee (hereinafter
referred to as a local government premiums tax, "LGPT"), for the privilege of
engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits of the city,
on a calendar-year basis, based upon the following:
   (A)   PREMIUMS is defined as premiums actually collected by an insurance
company within each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of policies and
contracts of insurance on risks located within the city and includes premiums
on new policies and contracts of insurance and on renewal business, as well as
all other classes of premiums, less all premiums returned to policyholders.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) below, the license fee
imposed upon each insurance company which issues any insurance policy or
contract of insurance shall be the following percentage of premiums on those
classes of insurance which such company is authorized to issue (the "Base
Fee"):
 
             Fire and Casualty                                    All other
             Allied   Liability Vehicle Inland Marine Health Life Risks Taxed
             Perils   Only
Initial Rate 5%       5%        5%      5%            0%     5%   5%
 
   The Base Fee shall not apply to premiums exempted by state or federal law.
   (C)   In addition to the Base Fee, an additional license fee in the amount
of 7.5% is hereby imposed by the city upon each insurance company on the
premiums for each class of insurance listed in division (B) above, provided
that Louisville Metro has raised its LGPT rate from 5% to 12.5% effective July
1, 2019 for any of the classes of insurance listed in division (B) above. In
the event the Louisville Metro LGPT effective July 1, 2019 is raised to an
amount different than 12.5%, but more than the city's Base Fee, the city hereby
imposes an additional license fee on each class of insurance listed in division
(B) above, equal to the city LGPT credit allowable under KRS 91A.080(12). In
the event the Louisville Metro LGPT effective July 1, 2019 remains 5% for any
class of insurance listed in division (B) above, the city's Base Fee shall
apply.
(Ord. 7, Series 2019, passed 3-5-2019)
§ 111.02 FEES TO BE PAID TO GENERAL REVENUE FUND.
   The license fee or tax established by this chapter is imposed and levied for
the purpose of general revenue funds and shall be paid into the general fund of
the city.
(Ord. 7, Series 2019, passed 3-5-2019)
§ 111.03 BASIS FOR LICENSE FEE.
   The license fee or tax imposed by a city upon each insurance company with
respect to life insurance policies may be based upon the first year's premiums
and shall be applied to the amount of the premiums actually collected within
each calendar quarter upon the lives of persons residing within the corporate
limits of the city.
(Ord. 7, Series 2019, passed 3-5-2019)
§ 111.04 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   (A)   The license fee or tax imposed upon each insurance company with
respect to any policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be of the
premiums actually collected by the insurance company within each calendar
quarter on risks located within the corporate limits of the city on those
classes of business which the insurance company is authorized to transact, less
all premiums returned to policyholders.
   (B)   The license fee or tax shall not apply to premiums:
      (1)   Received on policies of group health insurance provided for state
employees under KRS 18A.225;
      (2)   Received on policies insuring employers against liability for
personal injuries to their employees or the death of their employees caused
thereby, under the provisions of KRS Chapter 342;
      (3)   Received on health insurance policies issued to individuals;
      (4)   Received on policies issued through Kentucky Access created in
Subtitle 17B of KRS Chapter 304;
      (5)   Received on policies for high deductible health plans as defined in
26 U.S.C. 223(c)(2);
      (6)   Received on multi-state surplus lines, defined as non-admitted
insurance as provided in Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
Act Pub. L. no. 111-203; or
      (7)   Paid to insurance companies or surplus lines brokers by non-profit
self-insurance groups or self-insurance entities whose membership consists of
cities, counties, charter county government, urban-county government,
consolidated local government, unified local government, school districts, or
any other political subdivisions of the Commonwealth.
   (C)   No license fee or tax imposed under this section shall apply to
premiums paid to insurers of municipal bonds, leases, or other debt instruments
issued by or on behalf of a city, county, charter county government, urban-
county government, consolidated local government, special district, nonprofit
corporation, or other political subdivision of the Commonwealth. However, this
exemption shall not apply if the bonds, leases, or other debt instruments are
issued for profit or on behalf of for-profit or private organizations.
(Ord. 7, Series 2019, passed 3-5-2019)
§ 111.05 DUE DATE; INTEREST AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30
days after the end of each calendar quarter;
   (B)   Any insurance company or agent that overpays any license fee or tax to
a city shall be refunded the amount overpaid. If it is determined that an
insurance company or agent paid a license fee or tax to a city based upon
premiums collected upon lives or risks which are discovered to be located
outside the legal corporate limits of the city which was paid the license fee
or tax, the insurance company or agent shall be refunded those license fees and
taxes within 90 days' notice to the city paid.
   (C)   License fees which are not paid on or before the due date shall bear
interest at the tax interest rate as defined in KRS 131.010(6) from the date
due until paid.
(Ord. 7, Series 2019, passed 3-5-2019)
§ 111.06 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city with a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland Marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(Ord. 7, Series 2019, passed 3-5-2019)
§ 111.07 INSPECTION OF RECORDS AND ACCOUNTS.
   Every insurance company subject to license fees or tax shall maintain
records adequate to support the reports required to be filed under this
chapter. Authority is given to the City of St. Regis Park or a representative
thereof to make inspection of the books, accounts and records of the agent or
insurance company to verify the correctness of any report or breakdown of
collections.
(Ord. 7, Series 2019, passed 3-5-2019)
§ 111.08 LIABILITY OF AGENTS.
   This section applies to insurance agents and surplus lines brokers to the
extent they are responsible for collection, reporting, and payment of license
fees or taxes pursuant to KRS 91A.080.
(Ord. 7, Series 2019, passed 3-5-2019)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Pursuant to KRS 91A.080, willful failure to properly collect and remit the
license fees or taxes imposed by this chapter may constitute grounds for the
revocation of the license issued to an insurance company or agent under the
provisions of KRS Chapter 304 or may result in other penalties being imposed by
the State Office of Insurance.
(Ord. 7, Series 2019, passed 3-5-2019)
CHAPTER 112: DOOR-TO-DOOR SALES
Section
   
112.01   Permit required
   
112.02   Application for permit
   
112.03   Issuance of permit
   
112.04   Revocation of permit
   
112.05   Enforcement
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of door-to-
door sales of any merchandise or services of any type within the city without
first applying for and obtaining a permit to do so from the city.
(Ord. 7, Series 2000-2001, passed 3-6-2001) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Application for a permit to engage in the sale of merchandise or services
door-to-door in the city shall be made in writing to the Mayor, City Clerk or
Citation/Code Enforcement Officer and shall include the name, address and
telephone number of the person so applying, along with a description of the
goods or services to be sold and whether the person applying will be conducting
sales themselves or through their agents. The application must also contain
written documentation that a permit for such door-to-door sales has also been
granted by Jefferson County. Such sales shall only be allowed between the hours
of 9:00 a.m. and one-half hour prior to official sunset as published in the
Courier-Journal daily.
(Ord. 7, Series 2000-2001, passed 3-6-2001) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   Upon receipt of the required information and written documentation that the
Jefferson County permit has been obtained, the Mayor, City Clerk or Citation/
Code Enforcement Officer shall grant the permit and evidence such in writing
noting its date of issuance. Such permit is non-transferable and shall expire
contemporaneous with the Jefferson County permit. No permit shall be issued
unless the applicant has written documentation that a Jefferson County permit
has been obtained.
(Ord. 7, Series 2000-2001, passed 3-6-2001)
§ 112.04 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Any permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Council after notice and hearing. Notice of such shall be given in writing,
setting forth the specific grounds of the complaint and noting the time and
place of the hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the last known address of
the permit holder, as noted on the permit application.
   (B)   A permit may be revoked on the basis of fraud or misrepresentation in
the permit application, any fraud or misrepresentation made in connection with
the business carried on in the city, any violation of this chapter, conducting
the permitted business in an unlawful way or in such a way as to constitute a
menace to the health and safety of the city.
(Ord. 7, Series 2000-2001, passed 3-6-2001)
§ 112.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)    Any violation of this chapter shall subject the offender to fines,
penalties, and forfeitures that may be imposed by law, and the City may secure
injunctions and abatement orders, when appropriate, to insure compliance with
its ordinances as authorized by KRS 83A.065.
   (B)   This chapter may be enforced by any one or in combination of the
remedies authorized by this chapter.
(Ord. 7, Series 2000-2001, passed 3-6-2001) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    Criminal.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $100.
      (2)   Where Kentucky Revised Statutes mandates a fine higher than that
stipulated herein, the fine contained in the Kentucky Revised Statutes shall
apply.
      (3)   Any continuing violation of this chapter shall be considered a
separate and distinct offense for each day on which a violation occurs or
continues, and a separate penalty may be imposed therefor.
   (B)   Civil.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall
subject the offender to a civil penalty in an amount equal to two times the
minimum fine prescribed in division (A) above, with a minimum civil penalty of
$50 for each violation.
      (2)   The civil penalty provided herein may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender does not pay the penalty
within 20 days after the offender has been cited for the ordinance violation.
As used herein “cited” shall mean notified of the violation and the penalty in
writing by an elected or appointed official of the city or the official
attorney for the city. The civil penalty may be used as an alternative to or in
conjunction with the criminal penalties authorized herein.
(Ord. 7, Series 2000-2001, passed 3-6-2001)
CHAPTER 113: RENTAL PROPERTIES
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Registration of dwellings
   
113.03   Condition of rental property
   
113.04   Issuance of permit
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOCAL AGENT. An individual, fiduciary, partnership, association, corporation
or other entity, who represents the owner of a retail dwelling for purposes of
this chapter.
   OWNER. An individual, fiduciary, partnership, association, corporation or
other entity holding legal or equitable title in a rental dwelling.
   RENTAL DWELLING or RENTAL PROPERTY. Any residential dwelling, which is in
whole or in part occupied by one or more person(s) pursuant to an oral or
written agreement for monetary or any other consideration, but which person(s)
is not acquiring an ownership interest in the dwelling. It does not include
dwellings that are occupied only by members of the owner’s immediate family,
who do not pay rent.
   TENANT. Any person, other than an owner, occupying all o r part of a rental
dwelling.
(Ord. 3, Series 2011-2012, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 113.02 REGISTRATION OF RENTAL DWELLINGS.
   (A)   Registration required. All owners of rental dwellings shall annually
register the rental property with the city on an application in a form provided
by the city. At the time an application is filed, a registration fee of $150
shall be paid in full.
   (B)   Annual registration. The annual registration date shall be January 1
of each year. In the year the ordinance codified herein is enacted (the year
2012), registration and payment is required no later than May 1, 2012.
   (C)   Registration of new rental dwellings. The owner of a new rental
dwelling or of any dwelling newly converted to a rental dwelling shall register
the rental dwelling prior to allowing occupancy.
   (D)   Change in registration information. The owner of a rental dwelling(s)
already registered with the city and there is any change in the information of
his or her registration, the owner shall re-register within 60 days after any
change occurs in registration information, but does not have to pay the $150
registration fee.
   (E)   Registration of rental dwellings. Application for registration or re-
registration shall include:
      (1)   The address of the rental dwelling;
      (2)   The number of rental dwelling units;
      (3)    The name, residence address, business address, business phone
number and personal phone number of the owner and/or the local agent, if
applicable;
      (4)   The address where the owner and/or the local agent, if applicable,
will accept notices or orders from the city; and
      (5)   Verification that all state and city taxes levied and assessed
against the rental dwelling that are due and payable at the time of the filing
of the application have been paid. Delinquencies on such taxes may result in
the denial of an application for registration or re-registration under this
section.
   (F)   Inaccurate or incomplete registration information. It shall be a
violation of this chapter for an owner to provide inaccurate information for
the registration or re-registration of rental dwellings or to fail to provide
information required by the application.
   (G)   Designation of local agent. If the owner of a rental dwelling, or a
responsible member or officer of the owner, does not reside within 60 miles of
the city, the owner shall designate a responsible local agent who shall be
legally responsible for operating such rental dwelling in compliance with this
chapter, this code of ordinances, and other applicable laws or regulations. All
official notices may be served on the responsible local agent, and any notice
so served shall be deemed to have been served upon the owner of record.
   (H)   More than one owner or ownership entity. Where more than one person
has an ownership interest, the required information shall be provided for each
owner. In those cases in which the owner is not a person, the information
required for registration shall be provided for the organization owning the
rental dwelling and for the president, general manager, director(s), partner
(s), executor, trustee(s), or other chief executive officer(s) of the
organization.
(Ord. 3, Series 2011-2012, passed 1-3-2012) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 CONDITION OF RENTAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   All rental property must be kept in compliance with the City of St.
Regis Park Code of Ordinances, as well as Metro Louisville Ordinances, as a
condition of operating a rental property in the City of St. Regis Park.
   (B)   The registration application must be accurate and complete. If there
is any change in the application information, it must be updated within 60
days.
   (C)   Each rental dwelling shall provide measures acceptable to the city to
prevent any excessive noise at any property line.
   (D)   Each rental dwelling shall provide measures acceptable to the city to
prevent violations of the city’s parking ordinance by tenants of the rental
unit.
(Ord. 3, Series 2011-2012, passed 1-3-2012) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT
   (A)   Within 30 days of receipt of an application for registration (or re-
registration), along with the registration fee, by the City of St. Regis Park,
the city shall either issue the owner a permit to operate the rental property,
or, if the city decides not to issue the permit, the city shall provide a
written list of deficiencies or violations that must be corrected before a
permit may be issued.
   (B)   If the owner contest the permit denial, the owner may appeal the
denial to the full City Council. The appeal must be filed within 20 days of the
receipt of the denial by owner. The appeal will be heard by the full Council at
its next regular City Council Meeting, at which time the owner may present
evidence relevant to whether the property is in compliance with all City of St.
Regis Park ordinances, as well as metro Louisville ordinances.
(Ord. 3, Series 2011-2012, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a violation and fined not less than $20 nor more than $100.
      (2)   Where Kentucky Revised Statutes mandates a fine higher than that
stipulated herein, the fine contained in Kentucky Revised Statutes shall apply.
      (3)   Any continuing violation of this chapter shall be considered a
separate and distinct offense for each day on which a violation occurs or
continues, and a separate penalty may be imposed therefor.
   (B)   Civil.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall
subject the offender to a civil penalty in an amount equal to two times the
minimum fine prescribed in this chapter, with a minimum civil penalty of $50
for each violation.
      (2)   The civil penalty provided herein may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender does not pay the penalty
within 20 days after the offender has been cited for the ordinance violation.
As used herein, cited shall mean notified of the violation and the penalty in
writing by an elected or appointed official of the city or the official
attorney for the city. The civil penalty may be used as an alternative to or in
conjunction with the criminal penalties authorized herein.
(Ord. 3, Series 2011-2012, passed 1-3-2012)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
[Reserved]
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   SUBDIVISION AND ZONING DEVELOPMENT
      
152.   BINDING ELEMENTS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Kentucky Building Code
   
150.01   Adoption of Kentucky Building Code and Standards of Safety;
enforcement agents
   
150.02   Application
   
150.03   Appeals
Building Construction and Improvement
   
150.15   [Reserved]
   
150.16   Submission of plans; approval and compliance
   
150.17   Specified construction materials
   
150.18   Garages, carports and driveways
   
150.19   Fences and porches
   
150.20   Swimming pools
   
150.21   Landscaping and plantings
   
150.22   Auxiliary structures
   
150.23   Interior corner sight triangles
   
150.24   Satellite dishes and television antennas
   
150.25   Building numbers
   
150.26   Signs
   
150.27   Fees
Temporary Storage Units
   
150.40   Definition
   
150.41   Regulation
   
150.42   Exceptions
 
   
150.99   Penalty
KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE AND STANDARDS OF SAFETY;
ENFORCEMENT AGENTS.
   (A)   The Kentucky Building Code, as contained in Chapter 7, Title 815 of
the Kentucky Administrative Regulations; the Kentucky Plumbing Code, as
contained in Chapter 20, Title 815 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations;
the Kentucky Standards of Safety, as contained in Chapter 10, Title 815 of the
Kentucky Administrative Regulations, together with any amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference as if fully set forth in this code of ordinances. Copies
of the above codes and any amendments thereto shall be placed on file in the
office of the City Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (B)   Louisville Metro shall be designated as the local enforcement agent
for the Kentucky Building Code.
   (C)   Louisville Metro and the McMahan Fire Protection District and all
other designated officers, agents, and employees for the city are hereby
charged with the enforcement of the provisions of the Standards of Safety.
(Am. Ord. 7, Series 2010, passed 4-6-2010) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 APPLICATION.
   The application of the State Building Code shall be extended to all single-
family dwellings in the city which are to be constructed or remodeled.
§ 150.03 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions made by the Building Inspector under this chapter may
be taken to the State Board of Housing, Buildings and Construction unless and/
or until a local board of housing appeals, as set forth in KRS Chapter 198B, is
established to hear such appeals.
Statutory reference:
   Appeals procedure, see KRS 198B.070
BUILDING CONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENT
§ 150.15 [RESERVED.]
§ 150.16 SUBMISSION OF PLANS; APPROVAL AND COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   (1)   No building or structure of any type including fences covered by
§
150.19 shall be erected or placed on any lot within the city until building
plans, specifications and plot plans showing location of the structure or
building have been approved in writing as to conformity and harmony of external
design with existing structures in the city, and as to location of building
with respect to topography, finished ground elevation, and other provisions of
this subchapter, by the Mayor or the Mayor’s designee and building permit
applied for from the city. Any remodeling or alterations are to be considered
in and as a part of this division.
      (2)   When the detailed plans and specifications have been submitted to
the Mayor of the city or the Mayor’s designee and have been approved, a
building permit or letter of compliance will be issued. Building permits for
fences, utility sheds, playhouses and other auxiliary structures will be issued
by the Mayor or the Mayor’s designee. Permits for houses, garages and building
additions will be issued by the Jefferson County Code Enforcement Division upon
presentation of a letter of compliance from city. All applications must be
reviewed by the St. Regis Park Mayor or the Mayor’s designee for conformance
with city ordinances. Only then will a permit or letter of compliance be
issued, and only then may construction begin. The permit issued must be posted
upon the premises in a manner to be visible from the street during the period
of construction. Any permit for construction shall be effective and good for
one year from the date of issuance. Any letter of compliance shall be effective
and good for six months from the date of issuance.
      (3)   Upon violation of this section, the Mayor or the Mayor’s designee
may order excavation and construction to immediately cease until a time as a
permit is properly granted.
      (4)   No structures other than those approved in accordance with this
section shall be erected, altered, placed or permitted to remain on any portion
of the lots.
      (5)   Plumbing, electrical, heating and any other required permits must
be obtained from Jefferson County or the Commonwealth of Kentucky before
construction may be started.
   (B)   (1)   All lots shall be used in accordance with the deed restrictions,
easements of record and the zoning regulations enacted by the Louisville and
Jefferson County Planning Commission and city ordinances.
      (2)   All structures and any alterations or additions thereto shall
comply with this subchapter.
   (C)   All property owners and free holders must maintain lots and structures
erected thereon in reasonable condition and appearance. The city may, at any
time, order the cleaning and maintenance or repair of any lot or structure for
health, safety, sanitary or appearance reasons, and the property owner or free
holder thereof shall in the event be liable for the expense of the cleaning and
maintenance.
(Ord. 3, Series 1996-1997, passed 10-1-96; Am. Ord. 4, Series 2000-2001, passed
12-5-2000; Am. Ord. 10, Series 2000-2001, passed 7-3-2001) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.17 SPECIFIED CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS.
   (A)   The exterior building material of all residences or additions thereto
to be erected shall be brick, stone or any combination thereof, and can be in
combination with stucco, frame (wood), plastic and/or metal. The use of stucco,
frame (wood), plastic and/or metal shall be restricted to trim, dormers,
windows and decorative effects only, in the case of one-story houses; one and
one-half, two-story and multi-level dwellings may use stucco, frame (wood),
metal, plastic and/or brick or stone for the exteriors of uppermost levels.
Prefabricated residences may not be erected within the city. Concrete and
cinder block may not be used for the exterior building material. The use of
wood for foundations is prohibited.
   (B)   Wood and/or plastic may also be used for the exterior building
material for additions to the rear of a house and for enclosing side and rear
porches.
   (C)   The main structure of any residence erected within the city limits
exclusive of porches and breeze ways, shall have a ground floor area of not
less than 1,500 square feet for a one-story dwelling house, and a ground floor
area of not less than 900 square feet for a two-story dwelling house with a two
car attached garage. A one and one-half story house shall have a ground floor
area of not less than 1,000 square feet if there is an attached garage
connected thereto, and if there is no garage attached then it shall have a
ground floor area of not less than 1,100 square feet. A multi-level house shall
have a second (upper) level floor area of not less than 1,100 square feet.
(Ord. 3, Series 1996-1997, passed 10-1-96) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.18 GARAGES, CARPORTS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   All garages shall be no more than 28 feet wide and 26 feet deep.
Garages shall have a roof pitch no greater than a 5/12 pitch and no detached
garage may be over 16 feet in height, as measured from the peak of the roof
straight down to ground level. No attached garage shall be higher than the
principal structure. Garages can be either frame, brick or stone, no concrete
block garages are allowed. The exterior may be faced with brick or stone,
however, wood, aluminum or vinyl siding may be used on all other sides. Garages
may be attached, detached or semi-attached (by roofed breeze way) to the
residence. If detached, semi-detached, or attached from the house the garage
must be erected in accordance with Jefferson County Planning Commission
Regulations.
   (B)   Carports shall be of frame, brick, stone, ornamental metal or a
combination of same. No flexible materials, such as canvas, cloth or plastic
can be used as a roofing material on the carport. Commercially available pre-
fab metal carports are not allowed, unless they have been designed to match the
quality of construction and material of the surrounding residential structures.
A carport shall not exceed ten feet in width and may be attached to a house or
a garage. The side wall away from the house or garage shall not exceed three
feet in height. If there is an end wall, it shall not exceed three feet in
height. The carport type, design and placement on the lot must be approved by
the city in advance of its placement or construction to ensure that its design,
construction, materials and placement on the lot is in keeping with the
surrounding residential structures. Only one carport structure is allowed on
each lot.
   (C)   All driveways or parking lots shall be asphalt, concrete, or other
hard durable surface approved by the city (no gravel). Construction shall be
completed at the time of building the first structure on the lot. Driveways
shall be kept in good repair and free of significant deterioration. Any
additions or enlargements to any driveway or parking area in the city shall
require a permit from the City of St. Regis Park. Anyone proposing to add or
enlarge their driveway or other parking area must submit plans showing the
location of the enlargement or addition on the lot In addition, the type of
construction, driveway material type and total dimensions must be part of the
application for a permit. The city will make its decision to either grant or
deny the permit, based on the following factors:
      (1)   Whether the driveway or parking area is compliant with the
applicable sections of the land development code and is no wider than the
allowed 20 feet in width and does not extend past a line extending from the
front side exterior wall of the lot’s principal structure, nearest to the edge
of the driveway, which line is perpendicular to the road right-of-way;
      (2)   Whether the addition or extension serves as a legitimate vehicular
access to a residence or a garage, or a parking area for a boat or recreational
vehicle located ten feet behind the rear wall of the residence and in
compliance with the city's parking ordinances;
      (3)   Whether the applicant has properly dealt with drainage for the
project;
      (4)   Whether sidewalks are impacted by the addition or extension; and
      (5)   Turn-arounds, pull-offs, circular, oval, or other non-standard
driveways in the front, side or street side yard are not allowed in any part of
the city, other than those homes whose driveways exit onto the heavily traveled
roadways of Browns Lane and Lowe Road. This prohibition does not apply to
driveways or parking areas that were constructed prior to the effective date of
this section.
(Ord. 3, Series 1996-1997, passed 10-1-96; Am. Ord. 10, Series 2000-2001,
passed 7-3-2001; Am. Ord. 3, Series 2002-2003, passed 12-3-2002; Am. Ord. 3,
Series 2015-2016, passed 10-6-2015; Am. Ord. 4, Series 2018, passed 11-6-2018;
Am. Ord. 4, Series 2019, passed 12-3-2019; Am. Ord. 6, Series 2022-2023, passed
6-21-2023) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.19 FENCES AND PORCHES.
   (A)   No fence or structure of any nature, other than railings, porches or
patios, may be extended toward the front property line beyond the front wall of
the residence and otherwise shall be in compliance with applicable rules and
regulations as adopted in the Jefferson County Development Code on side and
rear yards.
   (B)   Railings shall be ornamental or decorative type and no higher than
three feet from their base. They shall not be extended more in total length
than 40% of the average width of the lot and shall not extend more than ten
feet toward the front property line beyond the front wall of the residence
unless they are part of a porch or patio.
   (C)   The front porch, exclusive of steps, or the front patio of the house
shall not extend more than ten feet beyond the front wall of the residence
toward the street. A railing may extend the full length and/or width of the
porch or patio.
   (D)   As used in this §
150.19, the “front wall” of the residence shall not include the porch or steps.
   (E)   A fence constructed on property lines must be made of ornamental
metal, wire, plastic or composite materials of good quality, or wood and shall
not be over six feet in height from ground level.
   (F)   Fences of closed construction not exceeding seven feet in height may
be constructed along the rear of lot lines, contiguous with interstate right-
of-ways.
   (G)   Use of barbed wire or electrified fences is prohibited.
   (H)   Open type construction must have spacing between boards in the fence.
The maximum width of fence boards shall not exceed six inches.
   (I)   Side or rear patio enclosures or decks may be of open or solid
construction on three sides, not exceeding six feet in height and must be
erected on or no further than 2½ feet adjacent to the patio.
(Ord. 3, Series 1996-1997, passed 10-1-1996; Ord. 4, Series 2020-2021, passed
6-1-2021) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.20 SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   A letter of compliance shall be required for the construction and
installation of any swimming pool of over 400 gallons of water capacity, 53
cubic feet.
   (B)   All swimming pools shall, at the time of construction or installation,
be provided with a fence or other suitable enclosure capable of preventing
stray animals or children from entering the water when the pool is not under
the owner’s supervision.
   (C)   This enclosure may be of solid construction on three sides. The side
facing the rear of the dwelling shall be of open construction to afford an
unrestricted view of the pool area.
   (D)   Swimming pools must drain into the sanitary sewer system. Pool permits
will be issued by the Jefferson County Code Enforcement only after presentation
of approved letter of compliance from the city. All permits and plans must also
be submitted to the Jefferson County Health Department, Division of
Environmental Health, for approval.
(Ord. 3, Series 1996-1997, passed 10-1-96)
§ 150.21 LANDSCAPING AND PLANTINGS.
   (A)   As construction of the main structure on any lot is completed, sod
shall be placed from the edge of the paved street to the rear building line of
the main structure, and across the entire width of the lot, excepting sidewalks
and driveways. Rear yard shall be finished, graded and seeded at the time of
the installation of the sod or within a reasonable time thereafter.
   (B)   Plantings on corner lots shall be in accordance with the sight
triangle requirements as specified by the Louisville and Jefferson County
Planning Committee.
(Ord. 3, Series 1996-1997, passed 10-1-96)
§ 150.22 AUXILIARY STRUCTURES.
   All utility sheds, playhouses and auxiliary structures erected for the
purpose of storage and/or recreation shall not exceed 120 square feet in floor
area and shall not exceed eight feet in height at their highest point. All
structures covered by this section shall have a concrete, metal or wood floor
and shall be firmly anchored in place. No structure covered by this section
shall be erected in the side yard, front yard or street side yard of any corner
lot.
(Ord. 3, Series 1996-1997, passed 10-1-96) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.23 INTERIOR CORNER SIGHT TRIANGLES.
   The sight triangle on all corner lots shall be as follows:
   (A)   Plantings in the sight triangle shall be less than two feet high or
trees shall be clear of branches from two feet to six feet above the ground.
   (B)   The sides of the triangle shall extend 35 feet parallel to the curb
measured from the apex of the triangle.
   (C)   The side of the sight triangle along Browns Lane shall be measured
along the edge of the sidewalk furthest from the east edge of the pavement
along Browns Lane. The approximate distance is 13.5 feet.
   (D)   The side of the sight triangle along Lowe Road shall be measured along
a line 13.5 feet from the north edge of the pavement of Lowe Road.
   (E)   All interior corner lot sight triangles shall be measured along the
yard edge of the curb.
   (F)   Property owners have 30 days to correct sight triangle violations.
Property owners shall be notified by mail and the 30 days shall commence on the
day of mailing. After 30 days, the city shall notify the property owner by
certified mail with return receipt that the city will correct the violation and
the property owner shall be billed for the work.
(Ord. 3, Series 1996-1997, passed 10-1-96) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.24 SATELLITE DISHES AND TELEVISION ANTENNAS.
   (A)   No satellite or television antenna dish shall be larger than 36 inches
in diameter.
   (B)   No dish shall be mounted on the front or street side of a house or
garage or on the front or street side yard.
(Ord. 3, Series 1996-1997, passed 10-1-96)
§ 150.25 BUILDING NUMBERS.
   (A)   The address shall be placed on or about the front of the residence in
a manner so as to be visible to vehicles in either direction on the nearest
fronting road and numbers which are painted only on the road curb do not comply
with this subchapter and single family dwellings that have unusually long set
backs shall place the address on the mailbox.
   (B)   The numbers shall be in standard Arabic form a size at least five
inches in height or larger if necessary to be visible from the nearest fronting
road, and in a color distinguishable from its background, with the exception
that existing posting numerals shall be acceptable hereunder if so visible as
to adequately identify each single family dwelling. Exception: single family
dwellings with unusually long set backs shall place the address on the mailbox.
The numbers shall be in standard Arabic form and a size at least four inches in
height or larger if necessary, permanently affixed to the mailbox.
(Ord. 3, Series 1996-1997, passed 10-1-96)
§ 150.26 SIGNS.
   (A)   (1)   All outdoor signs shall be securely and safely erected,
installed, placed and maintained by the contractor or owner thereof in a manner
as to assure the prevention of personal injury or damage to property.
      (2)   Whenever the Mayor finds a sign in an insecure or unsafe condition,
a notice of the finding shall be immediately delivered to the contractor and
owner thereof with an order to immediately remedy the insecure and unsafe
condition reported, whereupon the owner and the contractor shall immediately
comply with the order. If the order is not promptly acknowledged and complied
with, then the Mayor to prevent possible personal injury or property damage,
shall forthwith incur such reasonable expense necessary to have the insecure
and unsafe sign repaired or removed and this expense shall be reimbursed by the
contractor or owner of the sign to the city upon a certification by the Mayor
of work done and expense incurred.
      (3)   The contractor and owner shall immediately remit the amount of
reimbursement demanded, unless the owner or contractor questions the
reasonableness of the amount of reimbursement demanded, whereupon the question
may be negotiated in an equitable manner or an action filed at law by the city
for collection.
   (B)   All outdoor signs erected, installed, placed or maintained shall
comply with the provisions of the zoning regulations. Hereafter no sign in
excess of 600 square inches shall be erected, installed or posted.
   (C)   No sign shall be erected, posted, installed or maintained which is
found to create a public nuisance or hazard, or that the sign itself suggests
by wording or design certain malicious, scurrilous or degrading implications
likely to or does create public complaint and objections.
(Ord. 3, Series 1996-1997, passed 10-1-96)
§ 150.27 FEES.
   (A)   The fee for all letters of compliance shall be $35.
   (B)   The fee for any variance shall be non-refundable $75.
(Ord. 3, Series 1996-1997, passed 10-1-96; Am. Ord. 7, Series 2010, passed 4-6-
2010)
TEMPORARY STORAGE UNITS
§ 150.40 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TEMPORARY (OR PORTABLE) STORAGE UNITS. Sometimes referred to as “PODS”, are
any portable, weather-resistant, on demand storage units designed and used
primarily for the temporary storage of building material, household goods,
personal items and other material on the limited basis. The term shall not
include dumpsters, which are regulated separately.
(Ord. 4, Series 2009-2010, passed 3-3-2009)
§ 150.41 REGULATION.
   (A)   Temporary storage units shall be allowed in the city more than 20 days
only upon the issuance of a permit by the city. Permits shall be displayed on
the outside of the container in such a manner as to be plainly visible from the
nearest street. The fee for permits shall be $50 per unit, except there shall
be no fee or permit required if such containers are located on a site for less
than 20 days.
   (B)   Each permit application must be filled out and signed by the owners of
the lot on which the temporary storage unit is to be located and contain all
relevant contact information for both the owners and the company from which the
unit is to be rented.
   (C)   Temporary storage unit must be located only on the driveway, as far
back on the drive as possible and at no time may it be placed on the street.
Such unit shall be located no closer than ten feet to any property line.
   (D)   No temporary storage unit may be used to contain any hazardous
material. Any possible hazardous material must be disclosed to the city at the
time the permit application is made for review by the property city official,
prior to the issuance of any permit.
   (E)   Storage units must be in good condition, with no significant rust or
deterioration. They can not be greater than eight feet in height, ten feet in
width and 20 feet in length.
   (F)   Permits are good for a period of 20 days. There are no extensions.
Only one permit for home each year.
(Ord. 4, Series 2009-2010, passed 3-3-2009)
§ 150.42 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   In the case of emergencies, such as floods, wind storms, fires or
other acts of God, or man-made disasters, the Mayor shall be allowed to suspend
the enforcement of this subchapter as to the city as a whole, or areas of the
city, for a time period appropriate for the community to deal with such
emergency conditions.
   (B)   Due to the physical requirements of construction, or re-construction
of houses, special rules shall govern temporary storage units at construction
or re-construction sites. On any site on which a building permit is to be
issued, prior to the city issuing a letter of compliance, the applicant shall
submit all information required under §
150.41(A) and (B), however, the Mayor is authorized to extend the time the
units may remain on site; the number of units allowed and the locations they
may be placed. This decision shall be made with due regard to the physical
limitation of the work to be accomplished on the site, on a case by case basis.
(Ord 4, Series 2009-2010, passed 3-3-2009)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §
150.01 shall be subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   Violators of the State Building Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $1,000 for each offense.
(KRS 198B.990(1))
      (2)   Violators of the State Standards of Safety shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $1,000, imprisonment
for not more than 60 days, or both, for each offense. (KRS 227.990(1))
      (3)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100, imprisonment for not
more than 90 days, or both, for each offense. (KRS 318.990)
   (B)   Any person or entity who violates §§
150.15 through
150.27, or any order of the Mayor, or any condition imposed, shall be fined not
less than $10 but not more than $500 for each violation. Each day of violation
shall constitute a separate offense. Any property owner or free holder
violating any section of §§
150.15 through
150.27 shall be required, upon notice, to make any and all conformities with
the sections within a period of time specified by the Mayor. (Ord. 3, Series
1996-1997, passed 10-1-96)
   (C)   Criminal.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
150.40 through
150.42 shall be guilty of a violation and fined not less than $20 nor more than
$100.
      (2)   Where Kentucky Revised Statutes mandates a fine higher than that
stipulated herein, the fine contained in Kentucky Revised Statutes shall apply.
      (3)   Any continuing violation of §§
150.40 through
150.42 shall be considered a separate and distinct offense for each day on
which a violation occurs or continues, and a separate penalty may be imposed
therefor.
   (D)   Civil.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
150.40 through
150.42 shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in an amount equal to two
times the minimum fine prescribed herein, with a minimum civil penalty of $50
for each violation.
      (2)   The civil penalty provided herein may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender does not pay the penalty
within 20 days after the offender has been cited for the violation. As used
herein “cited” shall mean notified of the violation and the penalty in writing
by an elected or appointed official of the city or the official attorney for
the city. The civil penalty may be used as an alternative or in conjunction
with the criminal penalties authorized herein.
(Am. Ord. 4, series 2009-2010, passed 3-3-2009)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISION AND ZONING DEVELOPMENT
Section
   
151.01   Adoption of county regulations
§ 151.01 ADOPTION OF COUNTY REGULATIONS.
   (A)    The Development Code, Zoning District Regulations and Metropolitan
Subdivision Regulations for Jefferson County, Kentucky, and any amendments
thereto, are adopted by reference and incorporated as if set out in full
herein.
(Ord. 4, Series 1995-1996, passed 8-15-95; Am. Ord. 6, Series 2001-2002, passed
11-6-2001; Am. Ord. 4, Series 2002-2003, passed - -; Am. Ord. 4, Series 2003-
2004, passed 4-6-2004; Am. Ord. 3, Series -, passed 7-7-2009; Am. Ord. 6,
Series 2009-2010, passed 12-1-2009; Am. Ord. 4, Series 2022-2023, passed 4-19-
2023)
   (B)   The Comprehensive Plan for Louiseville and Jefferson County, and any
amendments thereto, is adopted by reference and incorporated as if set out in
full herein.
(Ord. 8, Series 1996-1997, passed 6-3-97)
   (C)   Copies of the referenced material will be maintained in the office of
the City Clerk and will be available for public inspection during normal
business hours.
(KRS 83A.060(5))
CHAPTER 152: BINDING ELEMENTS
Section
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Enforcement of binding elements
   
152.03   Authority of the Planning Commission
   
152.04   Form citations and issuance
   
152.05   Hearings before the Planning Commission
   
152.06   Appeal of Planning Commission orders
   
152.07   Payment of fines
   
152.08   Civil action by the city
 
   
152.99   Penalties
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BINDING ELEMENT. A binding requirement, provision, restriction, or condition
imposed by the Planning Commission or its designee, or a promise or agreement
made by an applicant in writing, in connection with the approval of a land use
development plan or subdivision plan.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Louisville and Jefferson County Planning
Commission.
   LAND USE ENFORCEMENT. A zoning enforcement officer employed by the Planning
Commission.
   CITY OF ST. REGIS PARK CITATION OFFICER. A duly appointed citation officer
from the City of St. Regis Park.
   LAND USE ORDINANCE. An official action of the city which is a regulation of
a general and permanent nature relating to the use and development of land
within the city. It is enforceable as a local law and includes any provision of
the City of St. Regis Park Code of Ordinances which embodies all or part of an
ordinance.
(Ord. 3, Series 2000-2001, passed 11-14-2000)
§ 152.02 ENFORCEMENT OF BINDING ELEMENTS.
   The violation of any binding element, as defined herein, shall constitute a
civil offense which may subject the violator to a civil fine and/or other
remedial orders of the Planning Commission in accordance with procedures set
forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 3, Series 2000-2001, passed 11-14-2000)
§ 152.03 AUTHORITY OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   The Planning Commission may issue remedial orders and impose
civil fines as a method of enforcing a binding element when a violation of that
binding element has occurred.
      (2)   If the violation of a binding element would also constitute an
offense under any provision of the Kentucky Revised Statutes, including
specifically, and without limitation, any provision of the Kentucky Penal Code
and any moving motor vehicle offense, such a violation of a binding element
shall not be a civil offense under this chapter but a criminal offense which
may be prosecuted in the court of appropriate jurisdiction.
   (B)   In the exercise of its authority under this chapter, the Planning
Commission shall have the power to:
      (1)   Adopt rules and regulations to govern its operation and conduct of
its hearing that are consistent with requirements of this chapter;
      (2)   Conduct hearings to determine whether there has been a violation of
a binding element;
      (3)   Subpoena alleged violators, witnesses and evidence to its hearings
and all such subpoenas issued by the Planning Commission may be served by any
Land Use Enforcement or Citation Officer;
      (4)   Take testimony under oath and the Chairman of the Planning
Commission may administer such oaths to witnesses prior to their testimony
before the Planning Commission on any matter;
      (5)   Make findings and issue orders that are necessary to remedy any
violation of a binding element;
      (6)   Impose civil fines as authorized in this ordinance on any person
found to have violated any binding element that the Planning Commission is
authorized to enforce.
(Ord. 3, Series 2000-2001, passed 11-14-2000)
§ 152.04 FORM CITATIONS AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings for the violation of a binding element shall
be initiated by the issuance of a citation by either a Land Use Enforcement or
Citation Officer from Jefferson County or the City of St. Regis Park Citation
Officer.
   (B)   When a Land Use Enforcement or Citation Officer, based upon personal
observation or investigation, has reasonable cause to believe that a violation
of a binding element has occurred, the officer may issue a warning notice and
citation to the offender. Prior to issuing a citation, however, the officer
shall issue a warning notice giving the offender ten days, Saturdays, Sundays
and Holidays excluded, in which to remedy the violation. If the person to whom
the notice is given fails or refuses to remedy the violation within the
specified time, the Land Use Enforcement or Citation Officer may issue a
citation. However, if the violation is a threat to the public safety, the Land
Use Enforcement or Citation Officer immediately shall issue a citation without
a prior warning notice.
   (C)   The citation issued by the Land Use Enforcement or Citation Officer
shall be in a form prescribed by the Planning Commission and shall contain, in
addition to any other information required by the Planning Commission:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The date and time the violation of the binding element was
committed;
      (4)   The facts constituting the violation of the element violated;
      (5)   The name of the Land Use Enforcement or Citation Officer;
      (6)   The civil fine that will be imposed for the violation if the person
does not contest the citation;
      (7)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (8)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or to contest the citation within the time allowed, the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the
Planning Commission to contest the citation, and that the determination that a
violation was committed shall be final.
   (D)   All citations issued shall be hand-delivered to the alleged violator.
After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the Land Use Enforcement or
Citation Officer shall notify the Planning Commission by delivering the
citation to the administrative official designated by the Planning Commission.
   (E)   When a citation is issued, the person to whom the citation is issued
shall respond to the citation within 14 days of the date the citation is issued
by either paying the civil fine set forth in the citation or requesting, in
writing, a hearing before the Planning Commission to contest the citation. If
the person fails to respond to the citation within 14 days, the person shall be
deemed to have waived the right to a hearing to contest the citation and the
determination that a violation was committed shall be considered final. In this
event, the Planning Commission shall enter a final order determining that the
violation was committed and imposing the civil fine set forth in the citation.
(Ord. 3, Series 2000-2001, passed 11-14-2000)
§ 152.05 HEARINGS BEFORE THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   When a hearing before the Planning Commission has been requested, the
Planning Commission, through its clerical and administrative staff, shall
schedule a hearing. The hearing shall be conducted within 30 days of the date
of the request, unless the person who requested the hearing requests or agrees
to a continuance not to exceed 30 days. All continuances must receive the
approval of the Planning Commission. Not less than seven days before the date
set for the hearing, the Planning Commission shall notify the person who
requested the hearing of the date, time and place of the hearing. The notice
may be given by certified mail, return-receipt requested; by personal delivery;
or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual place of residence with any
individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed
of the contents of the notice. Any person requesting a hearing before the
Planning Commission who fails to appear at the time and place set for the
hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing to contest the
citation and the determination that a violation was committed shall be final.
In this event, the Planning Commission shall enter a final order determining
that the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine set forth in the
citation.
   (B)   Each case before a Planning Commission shall be presented by an
attorney who shall be counsel to the Planning Commission.
   (C)   All testimony before the Planning Commission shall be under oath and
shall be recorded. The Planning Commission shall take testimony from the Land
Use Enforcement or Citation Officer, the alleged offender, and any witnesses to
the alleged violation offered by the Land Use Enforcement or Citation Officer
or the alleged offender. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but
fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (D)   After the hearing, the Planning Commission shall determine, based on
the evidence presented, whether a violation was committed. When the Planning
Commission determines that no violation was committed, an order dismissing the
citation shall be entered. When the Planning Commission determines that a
violation has been committed, it shall issue an order upholding the citation
and may order the offender to pay a civil fine in an amount up to the maximum
authorized by this chapter, or may order the offender to remedy a continuing
violation within a specified time to avoid the imposition of a fine, or both,
as authorized herein.
   (E)   Every final order of the Planning Commission shall be reduced to
writing, which shall include the date the order was issued, and a copy of the
order shall be furnished to the person named in the citation. If the person
named in the citation is not present at the time a final order of the Planning
Commission is issued, the order shall be delivered to that person by certified
mail, return-receipt requested; by personal delivery, or by leaving a copy of
the order at that person’s usual place of residence with any individual
residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the
contents of the order.
(Ord. 3, Series 2000-2001, passed 11-14-2000)
152.06 APPEAL OF PLANNING COMMISSION ORDERS.
   Any final order issued by the Planning Commission with respect to a citation
for the violation of a binding element may be appealed in conformity with KRS
100.413.
(Ord. 3, Series 2000-2001, passed 11-14-2000)
§ 152.07 PAYMENT OF FINES.
   The person or entity found to have committed a violation of a binding
element shall be responsible for the amount of all fines assessed for the
violation. A Planning Commission may file a civil action in its name against
the person or entity and shall have the remedies provided in KRS 100.415.
(Ord. 3, Series 2000-2001, passed 11-14-2000)
§ 152.08 CIVIL ACTION BY THE CITY.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall prohibit the city from taking
immediate action in the court of appropriate jurisdiction to remedy a violation
of a binding element when there is reason to believe that the existence of the
binding element violation presents a serious thereat to the public health,
safety, and welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of
the binding element violation will be irreparable or irreversible.
(Ord. 3, Series 2000-2001, passed 11-14-2000)
§ 152.99 PENALTIES.
   Any person who violates a binding element shall be subject to a fine of not
less than $500 nor more than $4,000 and shall comply with such remedial orders
as may be issued by the Planning Commission. Each day during which the binding
element violation exists after the period granted by §
152.04 (B) to remedy the violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 3, Series 2000-2001, passed 11-14-2000)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
      
III.   INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Series No. Date Passed Description
                                Annexing a tract of land, being Steeplechase,
110.15   1970       7-7-70      as shown in Book 16, page 83, Book 20, page 61,
                                and Book 26, page 60, of the Plat and
                                Subdivision Book
110.17   1974       - -74       Annexing a tract of land, being St. Mark
                                Methodist Church
110.22   1979       10-19-79    Annexing a tract of land adjacent to the
                                southern boundary of the city
110.23   1979       10-19-79    Annexing a tract of land north of Lowe Road
                                between Statton Road and Ashfield Acres
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Series No. Date Passed Description
Ord.    Series Date   Description
No.     No.    Passed
450.5   –    - -    Granting a cable television franchise to Community Antenna Television
                      System (CATV)
Res. ––    12-1-  Approving the change of control in a cable television franchise agreement
               1992   with Storer Communications of Jefferson County, Inc.
6       1995-  12-5-  Approving a 15-year franchise renewal with Community Antenna Television
        1996   1995   System (CATV) of TCI TKR of Jefferson County, Inc.
4       2013-  11-5-  Approving the extension of the franchise agreement for community antenna
        2014   2013   television (CATV) services of Insight Kentucky Partners II L.P.
5       2016   7-5-   Granting a communications franchise agreement between the city and Google
               2016   Fiber Kentucky, LLC.
        2019-  2-4-   Repealing Ordinance 5 relating to cable television services so that all
5       2020   2020   communications service providers are treated equally and subject to the
                      same rights and obligations when operating it the city’s rights-of-way.
Res.    2020   10-6-  Approving a non-exclusive, ten-year franchise agreement between the city
1           2020   and Spectrum Mid-America, LLC, for communications services.
                    
 
TABLE III: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Series No. Date Passed Description
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Cite Code Section
KRS Cite              Code Section
6.050                 32.48
6.955 - 6.975         33.04
Ch. 18A               111.03
18A.225               111.04
Ch. 31             34.16
41.240                33.44,
                      33.48
41.240(4)             33.05
42.450 - 42.495       33.04
Ch. 45A               34.16
Ch. 56                34.16
45A.345 - 45A.460     33.06
Ch. 61                32.21
61.168                34.16
61.169                34.16
61.362                71.01
61.823(2) to (4)      91.15
61.825                32.21
61.870                34.01
61.870(10)            34.05
61.870 - 61.882       31.36
61.870 - 61.884       34.17
61.872(4)             34.06
61.872(5)             34.07
61.872(6)             34.08
61.874(1) - (3)       34.12
61.874(3)             34.13
61.874(4)             34.13
61.874(5)             34.14
61.874(6)             34.15
61.878                34.01,
                      34.16
61.878(1)             34.16
61.880                34.09
61.880(1)             34.16
61.884                34.11
62.010                31.37
62.020                31.37
62.060                31.04
65.067                31.04
65.210 - 65.300       36.05
66.480                33.40,
                      33.44
66.480(1)(a) - (i)    33.44
66.480(1)(e)          33.44
66.480(1)(f)          33.44
66.480(1)(g)          33.44
66.480(1)(j)          33.44
66.480(1)(k)          33.44
66.480(1)(l)          33.44
66.480(2)             33.44
66.480(2)(a)          33.51
66.480(2)(b)          33.51
66.480(2)(d)(1) - (4) 33.51
66.660                91.06
82.095                35.06
Ch. 83A               31.20
83A.010(5)            10.02
83A.010(6)            10.02
83A.010(8)            10.02
83A.030(1)            30.02
83A.040(1)            31.21
83A.040(2)            31.21
83A.040(2)(c)         31.21
83A.040(2)(d)         31.21
83A.040(3)            31.21
83A.040(4)            32.01
83A.040(5)            32.02
83A.040(6)            31.21,
                      32.02
83A.040(7)            31.21,
                      32.02
83A.040(8)            31.21,
                      32.02
83A.040(9)            31.03
83A.050               31.20
83A.060(1)            32.35
83A.060(2)            32.36
83A.060(3)            32.37
83A.060(4)            32.38
83A.060(5)            32.40,
                      151.01
83A.060(6)            32.22
83A.060(7)            32.38
83A.060(8)            32.41,
                      32.42
83A.060(9)            32.43
83A.060(10)           32.44
83A.060(11)           32.45
83A.060(12)           32.46
83A.060(13)           32.46
83A.060(14)           32.47
83A.060(15)           32.48
83A.065               112.05
83A.070               31.02
83A.075               31.02
83A.080(1)            31.35
83A.080(2)            31.03,
                      31.35
83A.080(3)            31.20
83A.080(4)            31.20
83A.085               31.36
83A.087               31.38
83A.130               31.21
83A.130(1)            30.01
83A.130(2)            30.02
83A.130(3)            31.21
83A.130(4)            31.21
83A.130(5)            32.20
83A.130(6)            32.39
83A.130(7)            31.21
83A.130(8)            31.21
83A.130(9)            31.21
83A.130(10)           31.21
83A.130(11)           32.03,
                      32.21
83A.130(12)           32.03
83A.130(13)           32.03
83A.175               32.02
91A.010(6)            33.01
91A.010(7)            33.01
91A.010(8)            10.02
91A.020               33.02
91A.030               33.03
91A.040               33.04
91A.050               33.04
                      33.05,
91A.060               33.40,
                      33.46,
                      33.48
91A.080               111.08,
                      111.99
91A.080(12)           111.01
91A.200               33.21
91A.210               33.20
91A.220               33.21
91A.230               33.22
91A.240               33.23
91A.250               33.24
91A.260               33.25
91A.270               33.26
91A.280               33.27
91A.290               33.28
100.413               152.05
100.415               152.07
Ch. 107               33.21
Chs. 116 - 121        31.20
131.010(6)            111.05
132.285               35.01
134.800               35.04
134.810               35.04
Ch. 154               34.16
174.100               91.15
174.100(1)            91.16
174.100(2)            91.17
174.100(3)            91.18
174.100(4)            91.19
174.100(5)            91.20
178.290               91.06
Ch. 189               71.04
189.286               71.04
189.700               71.01
189.820               71.03
Ch. 198B              150.02
198B.070              150.03
198B.990(1)           150.99
227.990(1)            150.99
257.100(4)            90.01
258.015               90.07
258.235               90.08
Ch. 281               70.09
Ch. 304               111.99
Ch. 304, Subtitle 17B 111.04
304.39-080            71.04
318.990               150.99
Ch. 342               111.04
381.770               92.99
411.500 - 411.570     Ch. 92
                      32.43,
                      33.04,
Ch. 424               33.24,
                      33.25,
                      71.02
424.220               33.04
446.010(1)            10.02
446.010(2)            10.02
446.010(9)            10.02
446.010(10)           10.02
446.010(12)           10.02
446.010(13)           10.02
446.010(14)           10.02
446.010(15)           10.02
446.010(17)           10.02
446.010(18)           10.02
446.010(23)           10.02
446.010(25)           10.02
446.010(26)           10.02
446.010(27)           10.02
446.010(28)           10.02
446.010(30)           10.02
446.010(31)           10.02
446.010(33)           10.02
446.010(37)           10.02
446.010(39)           10.02
446.010(43)           10.02
446.010(46)           10.02
446.010(47)           10.02
446.010(49)           10.02
446.020(1)            10.03
446.020(2)            10.03
446.030               10.04
446.050               10.05
446.060               10.06
446.080(1)            10.03
446.080(3)            10.03
446.080(4)            10.03
446.090               10.07
446.100               10.08
446.110               10.09
446.140               10.01
                      
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Series No. Date Passed Code Section
--       -          12-1-92     T.S.O. II
1        2020       10-6-2020   T.S.O. II
                              
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Series No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord.   Series Date   Code Section
No.    No.    Passed
450.5  --     - -    T.S.O. II
8      1953   - -53  T.S.O. I
11     1953   - -53  T.S.O. I
4      1955   - -55  T.S.O. I
1      1956   - -56  T.S.O. I
1      1957   - -57  T.S.O. I
110.15 1970   7-7-70 T.S.O. I
110.17 1974   - -74  T.S.O. I
1      1974   5-7-74 T.S.O. I
2      1976   11-18- T.S.O. I
              76
5      1979   6-5-79 T.S.O. I
110.22 1979   10-19- T.S.O. I
              79
110.23 1979   10-19- T.S.O. I
              79
10           1-1-80 31.10
230.9  1982   1-5-82 31.37
840.9  1982   5-4-82 90.07 -
                     90.10
820    1990   - -90  90.06,
                     90.99
830.1  1991   1-8-91 50.01
3      1992   2-4-92 33.06
120.8  1993   2-2-93 32.21
3      1992-  6-8-93 T.S.O. III
       1993
       1994-         36.01 -
8      1995   2-7-95 36.05,
                     36.99
4      1995-  8-15-  151.01
       1996   95
5      1995-  9-5-95 91.06
       1996
6      1995-  12-5-  T.S.O. II
       1996   95
       1996-  10-1-  150.15 -
3      1997   96     150.27,
                     150.99
4      1996-  1-7-97 91.34
       1997
8      1996-  6-3-97 151.01
       1997
4      1998-  9-1-98 T.S.O. I
       1999
3      1998-  12-1-  31.38
       1999   98
1      1999-  6-1-   35.01 -
       2000   1999   35.03
1      2000-  6-6-   35.02,
       2001   2000   35.03
       2000-  11-14- 152.01 -
3      2001   2000   152.08,
                     152.99
4      2000-  12-5-  150.16
       2001   2000
       2000-  3-6-   112.01 -
7      2001   2001   112.05,
                     112.99
8      2000-  4-3-   Adopting Ordinance
       2001   2001
       2000-  6-5-   Repeals §§ 31.38(B), 33.07, 70.01, 70.02(D), (E), 70.07, 70.08, 70.11,
9      2001   2001   70.12, 70.13(N)(3), 70.20 - 70.22, 90.03 - 90.05, 90.25 - 90.32, 90.99
                     (B), Ch. 93, Ch. 110, 150.15
                     31.36,
                     31.37,
10     2000-  7-3-   31.38,
       2001   2001   50.01,
                     150.16,
                     150.18
1      2001-  6-5-   35.01
       2002   2001
6      2001-  11-6-  151.01
       2002   2001
1      2002-  6-4-   35.01
       2003   2002
1      2003-  6-3-   35.01 
       2004   2003
3      2002-  12-3-  150.18
       2003   2002
4      2002-  - -    151.01
       2003
4      2003-  4-6-   151.01
       2004   2004
6      2003-  5-4-   90.03
       2004   2004
3      - -    7-7-   151.01
              2009
       2009-  3-3-   150.40 -
4      2010   2009   150.42,
                     150.99
       2009-  3-3-   50.15 -
5      2010   2009   50.17,
                     50.99
6      2009-  12-1-  151.01
       2010   2009
              4-6-   35.03,
7      2010   2010   150.01,
                     150.27
       2011-  1-3-   113.01 -
3      2012   2012   113.04,
                     113.99
3      2012-  8-7-   91.06
       2013   2012
4      2012-  9-4-   32.02
       2013   2012
5      2012-  1-8-   37.01
       2013   2013
6      2013   3-5-   90.10
              2013
1      2013-  6-4-   35.03
       2014   2013
       2013-  9-3-   92.03,
3      2014   2013   92.04,
                     92.99
4      2013-  11-5-  T.S.O. II
       2014   2013
5      2013-  1-7-   38.01 -
       2014   2014   38.10
6      2013-  2-4-   Adopting Ordinance
       2014   2014
                     33.40 -
       2013-  6-3-   33.43,
8      2014   2014   33.45 -
                     33.48,
                     33.50
1      2014-  6-3-   35.03
       2015   2014
3      2014-  2-3-   32.21
       2015   2015
1      2015-  6-2-   35.03
       2016   2015
3      2015-  10-6-  150.18
       2016   2015
4      2015-  9-1-   Adopting Ordinance
       2016   2015
5      2016   7-5-   T.S.O. II
              2016
6      2015-  4-5-   38.01 -
       2016   2016   38.10
9      2016   7-5-   38.01,
              2016   38.02
3      2016-  11-1-  Adopting Ordinance
       2017   2016
              10-2-  70.01 -
3      2018   2018   70.10,
                     70.99
4      2018   11-6-  150.18
              2018
              2-5-   71.01 -
5      2018   2019   71.04,
                     71.99
6      2018-  3-5-   Adopting Ordinance
       2019   2019
              3-5-   111.01 -
7      2019   2019   111.08,
                     111.99
4      2019   12-3-  150.18
              2019
1      2019-  6-4-   35.06
       2020   2019
3      2019-  9-3-   91.45 -
       2020   2019   91.50
5      2019-  2-4-   T.S.O. II
       2020   2020
6      2020   6-2-   Adopting Ordinance
              2020
1      2020-  6-2-   35.06
       2021   2020
4      2020-  6-1-   150.19
       2021   2020
                     33.42 -
                     33.44,
       2021-  8-3-   33.46,
3      2022   2021   33.47,
                     33.49,
                     33.51,
                     33.52
                     34.01,
4      2021-  9-7-   34.05,
       2022   2021   34.07,
                     34.09
3      2023   1-3-   32.21
              2023
4      2022-  4-19-  151.01
       2023   2023
6      2022-  6-21-  150.18
       2023   2023
                   
 
