TAYLOR MILL, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2025 S-25 Supplement, current through:
Ordinance 403, passed 10-9-24; and
State legislation current through KRS 2024 Acts
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
OF
TAYLOR MILL, KENTUCKY
COMMISSION
Caroline Braden
Mark Kreimborg
Rose Merritt
Daniel E. Murray
                           
OFFICIALS
Mayor                      Daniel L. Bell
City Administrator         Brian Haney
City Attorney              Jack Gatlin
Police Chief               James Mills
Fire Chief                 John Stager
Treasurer                  Tonya Mohnen
City Clerk/                Kristy Webb
Special Events Coordinator
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 1-3-88
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF TAYLOR MILL, IN KENTON COUNTY, KENTUCKY, ADOPTING
BY REFERENCE A CODIFICATION OF THE ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF TAYLOR MILL
PREPARED AND PUBLISHED BY THE AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING COMPANY OF CINCINNATI,
OHIO.
   PURSUANT TO THE AUTHORITY OF KRS 83A.060(5), BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF
TAYLOR MILL, IN KENTON COUNTY, KENTUCKY, AS FOLLOWS:
   SECTION I
   As used herein, the words "Taylor Mill Code of Ordinances" mean the
codification of the ordinances of the City of Taylor Mill, prepared and
published by the American Legal Publishing Company of Cincinnati, Ohio, with a
1987 copyright, and with the subject matter thereof classified and identified
by the following titles:
         Title I : General Provisions
         Title III : Administration
         Title V : Public Works
         Title VII : Traffic Code
         Title IX : General Regulations
         Title XI : Business Regulations
         Title XIII : General Offenses
         Title XV : Land Usage
         TSO : Tables of Special Ordinances
   SECTION II
   A copy of the Taylor Mill Code of Ordinances accompanies this ordinance; and
is hereby made a part of the permanent records of the City of Taylor Mill; and
the provisions thereof are hereby incorporated herein by reference, and adopted
the same as if they were completely copied herein.
   SECTION III
   The provisions of this ordinance are severable; and the invalidity of any
provision of this ordinance shall not affect the validity of any other
provision thereof; and such other provisions shall remain in full force and
effect as long as they remain valid in the absence of those provisions
determined to be invalid.
   SECTION IV
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with the provisions of
this ordinance are hereby repealed to the extent of such conflict.
   SECTION V
   This ordinance shall be effective as soon as possible according to law.
                           Miriam Fisk /s/
                              Mayor
   CERTIFICATION
   The undersigned, MARY LOU KORDENBROCK, City Clerk of the City of Taylor Mill
in Kenton County, Kentucky, hereby certifies as follows:
      1.   The foregoing Ordinance No. l-3-88 was introduced in writing and
read to the City Commission of the City of Taylor Mill at regular or special
meetings thereof an the 10th day of March, 1988, and the 14th day of April,
1988, at which quorums were present; and such ordinance was enacted by the City
Commission of the City of Taylor Mill upon the affirmative vote of at least a
majority of a quorum thereof at the meeting thereof on the 14th day of April,
1988, with the vote of each member of the City Commission entered upon the
official record of such meeting; and
      2.   The foregoing ordinance was published on the 27th day of April,
1988, in The Kenton County Recorder, a newspaper meeting the requirements of
KRS Chapter 424.
                           Mary Lou Kordenbrock /s/
                               City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 122 (9-10-97)
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF TAYLOR MILL, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 1997 S-4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Taylor Mill, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Taylor Mill:
   SECTION 1.   That the 1997 S-4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Taylor Mill, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2.   That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this 10th day of September, 1997.
Passed on First Reading Aug. 27, 1997
Adopted on Second Reading Sept. 10, 1997
Signed by Mayor Sept. 10, 1997
Published in the Paper
Recorded by Clerk
Mike Keimborg
Mayor
ATTEST:
Cheryl Niehues
City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 169 (1-24-01)
   AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF TAYLOR MILL, IN KENTON COUNTY, KENTUCKY,
ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF TAYLOR MILL.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 1999 S-5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Taylor Mill, which supplement includes all ordinances of a general nature
through Ordinance 153 (7-28-99) enacted since the prior supplement to the Code
of Ordinances of the City of Taylor Mill; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the City Commission to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF TAYLOR MILL, IN KENTON COUNTY,
KENTUCKY, AS FOLLOWS:
   SECTION 1.  Adoption of 1999 S-5 Supplement
   A copy of the 1999 S-5 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Taylor Mill is submitted by the American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, accompanies this ordinance, and it is hereby made a part of
the permanent records of the City of Taylor Mill; and the provisions thereof
are hereby adopted. by reference, without setting them out in full, pursuant to
the authority of KRS 83A.060.
   SECTION 2. Provisions Severable
   The provisions of this ordinance are severable; and the invalidity of any
provision of this ordinance shall not affect the validity of any other
provision thereof; and such other provisions shall remain in full force and
effect as long as they remain valid in the absence of those provisions
determined to be invalid.
   SECTION 3. Conflicting Ordinances Repealed
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with the provisions of
this ordinance are hereby repealed to the extent of such conflict.
   SECTION 4. Effective Date
   This ordinance shall be effective as soon as possible according to law.
   SECTION 5. Publication
   This ordinance shall be published in summary pursuant to KRS 83A.060 (9).
    /s/
   MARK KREIMBORG, MAYOR
ORDINANCE NO. 311 (12-9-2015)
   AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF TAYLOR MILL, IN KENTON COUNTY, KENTUCKY,
ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF TAYLOR MILL.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2015 S-9 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Taylor Mill, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statues; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of this Commission to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Taylor Mill:
   SECTION 1. That the 2015 S-9 supplement of the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Taylor Mill, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
   _______________ /s/
   DANIEL L. BELL, MAYOR
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   CITY BOUNDARIES
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
   
10.19   Application of regulations
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Taylor Mill Code, for which designation "codified ordinances" or "code" may be
substituted. Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code. (KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the "traffic code." Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation "§" followed by the number, such as "§
10.01." Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ACTION." Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010 (1))
   "AND." May be read "OR," and "OR" may be read "AND," if the sense requires
it.
   "ANIMAL." Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.0l0 (2))
   "CITY," "MUNICIPAL CORPORATION," or "MUNICIPALITY." When used in this code
shall denote the City of Taylor Mill irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   "COMMISSION." The City Commission. (KRS 83A.0l0 (3))
   "COMPANY." May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.0l0 (9))
   "CORPORATION." May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.0l0 (10))
   "COUNTY." Kenton County, Kentucky.
   "CRUELTY." As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted. (KRS
446.0l0 (12))
   "DIRECTORS." When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.0l0 (13))
   "DOMESTIC." When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state.
(KRS 446.0l0 (14))
   "DOMESTIC ANIMAL." Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.0l0 (15))
   "EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY." The Commission. (KRS 83A.0l0 (6))
   "FEDERAL." Refers to the United States. (KRS 446.0l0 (18))
   "FOREIGN." When applied to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
business trust, or limited liability company, includes all those incorporated
or formed by authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.0l0 (18))
   "KEEPER" or "PROPRIETOR." Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves
or as a servant, agent, or employee.
   "KRS." Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   "LAND" or "REAL ESTATE." Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and
all rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest. (KRS
446.0l0 (23))
   "LEGISLATIVE BODY." The City Commission. (KRS 91A.010 (8))
   "LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER." A City Commissioner.
(KRS 83A.010 (8))
   "LIVESTOCK." Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas,
buffaloes, or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine,
or camelid species. (KRS 446.0l0 (25))
   "MAY." The act referred to is permissive. (KRS 446.010 (26))
   "MISDEMEANOR." An offense for which the criminal fine can not exceed the
amount set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(a), or a term of imprisonment not to exceed
the periods set forth in KRS 532.090(1) or both. (KRS 83A.065)
   "MONTH." Calendar month. (KRS 446.010 (27))
   "MUNICIPALITY." The City of Taylor Mill, Kentucky.
   "MUNICIPAL ORDER." An official act of the City Commission which is binding
upon the officers and employees of the city and any governmental agency over
which the municipality has jurisdiction. (KRS 83A.010 (9))
   "OATH." Includes "AFFIRMATION" in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010 (28))
   "OFFICER." Any person elected to a position by the voters or any person
appointed to a position which:
         (a)   is created by the Constitution, the General Assembly, or a city;
         (b)   possesses a delegation of a portion of the sovereign power of
government;
         (c)   has powers and duties to be discharged which are conferred
directly or by implication by the city;
         (d)   has duties performed independently and without control of a
superior power other than the law;
         (e)   has some permanency;
         (f)   requires an official oath;
         (g)   is assigned by a commission or other written authority; and
         (h)   provides for an official bond if required by proper authority.
(KRS 83A.010 (10))
   "ORDINANCE." An official act of the City Commission, which is a regulation
of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law or is an
appropriation of money.
   "PARTNERSHIP." Includes both general and limited partnerships. (KRS 446.010
(30))
   "PEACE OFFICER." Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan or urban county government correctional
officers, marshals, policemen, and other persons with similar authority to make
arrests. (KRS 446.010 (31))
   "PERSON." May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies. (KRS 446.010 (33))
   "PERSONAL PROPERTY." Includes all property except real.
   "PREMISES." As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   "PROPERTY." Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   "PUBLIC AUTHORITY." Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   "PUBLIC PLACE." Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   "REAL PROPERTY." Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   "REGULAR ELECTION." The election in even numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010 (37))
   "SHALL." The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010 (39))
   "SWORN." Includes "AFFIRMED" in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010 (43))
   "SIDEWALK." That portion of the street between the curb line and the
adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   "STATE." The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   "STREET." Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   "SUBCHAPTER." A division of a chapter, designated in this code by an
underlined heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the
body of the chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject
matter of the heading. Not all chapters have subchapters.
   "TENANT" or "OCCUPANT." As applied to premises, includes any person holding
a written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   "VACANCY IN OFFICE." Such as exists when there is an unexpired part of a
term of office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the person elected
or appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, county, or district, or otherwise. (KRS 446.010 (46))
   "VIOLATE." Includes failure to comply with. (KRS 446.010 (47))
   "VIOLATION." An offense for which the criminal fine can not exceed the
amount set forth in KRS 534.040 (2)(c). (KRS 83A.065)
   "YEAR." Calendar year. (KRS 446.010 (49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things. (KRS
446.020 (1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males. (KRS 446.020 (2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of the
Commission. (KRS 446.080 (1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared. (KRS 446.080 (3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to such meaning. (KRS 446.080 (4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, or regulation, or order of court requires an act to
be done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day
on which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing
the time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required
to be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or notice shall
mean the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty
or compliance with such notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
officers or other persons. (KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be construed to
include such acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of the Commission in enacting
any ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that the
Commission would not have enacted the remaining parts without the
unconstitutional part, or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are
incomplete and incapable of being executed in accordance with the intent of the
Commission.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of the City Commission.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of the City Commission as long as it takes effect prior to
the effective date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
the City Commission which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of the City Commission as long
as the repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the
original amendment.
   (E)   No other action of the City Commission repealing a repealer or an
amendment shall have the effect of reviving the original language of the
repealer or amendment as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of such proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, such provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Commission, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional
ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the
ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving such
purpose effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall
remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances
until the Commission shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method set forth in §
32.37 should be used by the city to amend, add, or repeal a chapter, section,
or division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of such error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for-word the same as the statute. Example: (KRS
83A.090) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85). If a KRS cite
is set forth as a "statutory reference" following the text of the section, this
indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for further information,
Example:
      § 31.10 COMMISSION.
         The legislative, executive and administrative authority of the city
shall be vested in and exercised by the Commission.
      (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-80)
      Statutory reference:
         For powers and duties of the Commission, see KRS 83A.140
§ 10.19 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   Provisions of this Code of Ordinances shall apply only within the corporate
limits of the city.
('78 Code, 020.4)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Nobody shall conspire, cause, permit, promote, allow, aid, assist, encourage
or engage in any violation of any provision of any ordinance of the city or any
codification thereof, or any other code adopted and enacted by reference
therein; and pursuant to the authority of KRS 83A.065, each and every violation
thereof, by either act or omission, is hereby designated and declared to be a
misdemeanor; and each day of any occurrence or continuation thereof shall be a
separate and distinct violation and offense, for which:
   (A)   Everybody convicted thereof, in a court of competent jurisdiction,
shall be sentenced to pay a criminal fine, in an amount which shall be
sentenced to pay a criminal fine, in an amount which shall not exceed the
amount of $500.00 set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(a), or a term of imprisonment not
to exceed the period of ninety (90) days set forth in KRS 532.090(1), or both;
and
   (B)   The offender shall be subject to a civil penalty of $100.00, plus
court costs and reasonable attorney fees, for each violation and offense, which
shall be recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt, if not
paid by the offender within thirty (30) continuous calendar days after citation
for the violation, offense or other failure to comply with the provisions of
the Code of Ordinances.
(Am. Ord. 98(10-23-96), passed 10-23-96)
CHAPTER 11: CITY BOUNDARIES
Section
   
11.01   Boundary map; boundary lines
§ 11.01 BOUNDARY MAP; BOUNDARY LINES.
   (A)   The City Clerk/Tax Collector shall keep a copy of a certified map
showing the boundaries of the City. This map was researched and issued by OKI
consultants on July 9, 1974.
   (B)   Boundary lines shown on the map are hereby certified as correctly
adjusted with regard to all applicable annexation ordinances.
('78 Code, 110.01)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COMMISSION PLAN
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY COMMISSION
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
34A.   PUBLIC MEETINGS
      
35.   DEPARTMENTS
      
36.   AD VALOREM TAXATION
      
37.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
38.   AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PLAN
      
39.   CODE OF ETHICS
      
40.   USE OF EMERGENCY MEDICAL AND TRANSPORTATION SERVICES
      
41.   CITY POLICIES
      
42.   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
CHAPTER 30: CITY COMMISSION
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
   
30.03   Compensation
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The plan under which the city is organized and governed shall be known as
the Commission Plan as provided in KRS 83A.140.
(Res. 2-5-84, passed 5-10-84; Adopted by the voters 11- -84)
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected officer who shall be called
Mayor and by elected legislative body members who shall be called City
Commissioners and which together shall be known as the City Commission and by
such other officers and employees as may be provided for by statute or city
ordinance. (KRS 83A.140 (2))
   (B)   The City Commission shall be composed of the Mayor and four
Commissioners. (KRS 83A.030 (2))
§ 30.03 COMPENSATION.
   The compensation of the Mayor and City Commissioners shall be a sum as set
by ordinance, following the procedure contained in §
31.02.
(Ord. 2-2-85, passed - -85)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath; bond
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
   
31.04   Authority as citation officer
Elected Officials
   
31.20   Election procedure
   
31.21   Mayor; Mayor Pro Tem
   
31.22   Commissioners
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.35   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.36   City Clerk/Tax Collector
   
31.37   City Treasurer
   
31.38   City Administrative Officer
City Employees
   
31.45   Legal Counsel
   
31.46   Building Inspector/Zoning Administrator
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH; BOND.
   (A)   Oath. Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his office, take the following oath: "I do solemnly
swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of
this Commonwealth, and the Constitution of the United States, and be faithful
and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue a citizen
thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the
office of , according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or affirm) that,
since the adoption of the present Constitution, I being a citizen of this
United States, have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this State,
nor out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel with
deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor aided
or assisted any person thus offending, so help me God," as established by
section 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (B)   Certification. Certification of the person administering the oath of
office to an elected official shall certify in writing that the oath was
administered and the date of its administration. Said certification shall be
filed in accordance with KRS 62.020.
   (C)   Bond.
      (1)   All officers, officials and employees of cities, counties, urban-
county governments, charter county governments, a regional wastewater
commission, and special districts who handle public funds in the execution of
their duties shall give a good and sufficient bond to the local governing body
for the faithful and honest performance of his or her duties and as security
for all money coming into that person’s hands or under that person’s control.
The bond amount shall be based upon the maximum amount of public funds the
officer, official, or employee handles at any given time during a fiscal year
cycle. The local governing body shall pay the cost of the bond.
      (2)   Elected officials who post bond as required by statute, and
employees of their offices covered by a blanket or umbrella bond, shall be
deemed to have complied with subsection (1) of this section.
(KRS 65.067)
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Commission shall by ordinance fix the compensation of every
elected city officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in
which the officer is elected. An elected officer's compensation shall not be
changed after his election or during his term of office.
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of the Mayor and Commissioners
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department for Local Government
computes by the second Friday in February of every year the annual increase or
decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using 1949 as the
base year in accordance with section 246 of the Constitution of Kentucky, which
provides that the Mayor and Commissioners shall be paid at a rate no greater
than $7,200 per annum.
      (2)   The Commission shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Department for Local Government.
   (B)   The Commission shall fix the compensation of each appointed city
officer in the ordinance that creates the office and may change it by
ordinance.
   (C)   The Commission shall establish the compensation of city employees in
accordance with the personnel and pay classification plan ordinance of the
city.
   (D)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
inability, or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his office,
may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the Commission
exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the deliberation
of his removal. No elected officer shall be removed without having been given
the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed, has the right to
appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall be on the
record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated before the
expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Commission at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(2)
§ 31.04 AUTHORITY AS CITATION OFFICER.
   The nonelected city office of City Administrative Officer, and the
employment positions of Fire Chief and Assistant to the City Administrative
Officer shall include the power and authority of a citation officer provided in
KRS 83A.087.
(Ord. 99(10-23-96), passed 10-23-96)
ELECTED OFFICERS
§ 31.20 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Election of city officers is governed by general election laws as
provided in KRS Chapters 116 through 121 unless the Commission otherwise
prescribes by ordinance that election of city officers shall be under
nonpartisan city election laws as provided in KRS Ch. 83A. Such ordinance shall
become effective not later than 23 days prior to the date prescribed by the
election law generally for filing notification and declaration forms with the
County Clerk in a year in which a regular election is to be held in which any
city office is to be filled. Immediately subsequent to publication of any
ordinance prescribing that election of city officers be under nonpartisan city
election laws, a copy of the ordinance shall be filed with the County Clerk of
the county in which the city is located.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) of this section by ordinance, except that no change
shall be made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and Commissioners may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
Statutory reference:
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080(3), (4)
§ 31.21 MAYOR; MAYOR PRO TEM.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular November election. A candidate for Mayor
shall be a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her
election. His or her term of office begins on the first day of January
following election and shall be for four years and until his or her successor
qualifies. If a person is elected or appointed as Mayor in response to a
vacancy and serves less than four calendar years, then that period of service
shall not be considered for the purposes of re-election for a term of office.
The Mayor shall be nominated and elected from the city at large.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, the Commission
shall fill the vacancy within 30 days. If for any reason, any vacancy in the
office of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor
shall promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall
serve for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040 (1),(2),(6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Commission shall not vote for himself.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Commission. The resignation may be submitted
through electronic mail if it originates from the official’s electronic mail
address and includes also the official’s handwritten signature. The resignation
shall be effective at the next regular or special meeting of the Commission
occurring on or after the date specified in the written letter of resignation.
If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation shall be deemed
to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of the legislative
body occurring on or after its receipt. (KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Commission shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy. (KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Commission shall elect from among its members an
individual to preside over meetings of the City Commission during any vacancy
in the office of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Commission and may
vote in all proceedings.
      (2)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city
authorized by ordinance or resolution shall be executed by the Mayor on behalf
of the city.
(KRS 83A.140 (4))
   (E)   Mayor Pro Tem.
      (1)   The Commission shall designate one City Commissioner to serve as
Mayor Pro-Tem. The Mayor Pro-Tem shall act for the Mayor whenever the Mayor is
unable to attend to the duties of his or her office and he or she shall then
possess all rights, powers, and duties of Mayor.
       (2)   If the disability of the Mayor to attend to his or her duties
continues for 60 consecutive days, the office of Mayor may be declared vacant
by a majority vote of the Commission membership, and the provisions of division
(C) above shall apply.
(KRS 83A.140 (4))
§ 31.22 COMMISSIONERS.
   For provisions concerning the City Commission, see
Chapter 32.
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (l)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office;
      (4)   Bond, if required; and
      (5)   Compensation.
   (B)   All nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Commission.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Commission at will
unless otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (D)   The following are nonelected city offices:
      (1)   City Clerk/Tax Collector
      (2)   City Treasurer
      (3)   City Administrative Officer
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(l),(2)
§ 31.36 CITY CLERK/TAX COLLECTOR.
   (A)   Establishment. The office of City Clerk/Tax Collector is hereby
established in accordance with KRS 83A.085.
   (B)   Appointment. The City Clerk/Tax Collector shall be appointed by the
City Commission pursuant to KRS 83A.080 and may be removed by the Commission at
will.
   (C)   Oath and bond. No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk/
Tax Collector unless such person has taken the oath required by Section 228 of
the State Constitution, has provided a bond in the sum of $2,500 with corporate
surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and conditioned upon the
performance of the duties specified herein, and has the following
qualifications:
      (1)   Training and experience. Graduation from high school or its
equivalent supplemented by three years of progressively responsible experience
in clerical work involving frequent contact with the public; or any combination
of education, training, and experience which provides the necessary knowledge,
skills, and abilities to perform effectively the duties of the position is
required.
      (2)   Special knowledge, skills, and abilities. Considerable knowledge of
modern office practices, procedures, and equipment; considerable knowledge of
the legal requirements related to keeping and preserving Commission minutes and
records; working knowledge of procedures for Commission meetings and local
government operations; working knowledge of modern accounting practices and
procedures and the basic principles of public finance; typing ability; ability
to establish and maintain effective working relationships with employees,
governmental officials, and the general public; ability to maintain important
records efficiently and accurately and to prepare clear and concise reports;
initiative and resourcefulness; thoroughness; orderliness; patience, neatness;
integrity; tact; diplomacy; and supervisory ability are required.
   (D)   Functions, powers, and duties. Subject to the general supervision of
the City Commission, the City Clerk/Tax Collector shall:
      (1)   Prepare the agenda for each meeting of the City Commission and
distribute to all members thereof such correspondence and documents as are
relevant thereto; attend each meeting thereof; and provide the general
secretarial and clerical assistance necessary to the functions of the City
Commission.
      (2)   Prepare the official record of each meeting of the City Commission
and maintain and safely keep it and all the permanent records of the city as
well as the seal of the city as required by KRS 83A.085.
      (3)   Perform all actions required by law as the City Clerk/ Tax
Collector; and prepare, issue, and deliver or mail all bills, licenses, and
other documents and correspondence in regard to the collection of the taxes,
licenses, fees, and other revenues of the city, the deposit thereof, the
records in regard thereto, and the accounting therefor.
      (4)   Pay from the Petty Cash Fund such debts and expenses of the city
which do not exceed the sum of $100. Upon disbursement of any funds from the
Petty Cash Fund, the City Clerk/Tax Collector shall obtain from the person to
whom the disbursement is made such receipts, vouchers, and other documents as
are needed or required by the City Treasurer.
('78 Code, 130.2, § II (c)) (Ord. 10-1-73, passed 1-11-73)
      (5)   Supervise, control, and be responsible for the general clerical and
secretarial requirements of the City Commission and the personnel, office
equipment, and supplies necessary therefor.
      (6)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail to the Department of
Local Government, a list containing current city information including, but not
limited to, the following:
         (a)   The correct name of the mayor, legislative body members, and the
following appointed officials who are serving as of January l of each year:
            1.   City Clerk/Tax Collector;
            2.   City Treasurer;
            3.   City Manager;
            4.   City Attorney;
            5.   Finance Director;
            6.   Police Chief;
            7.   Fire Chief, and
            8.   Public Works Director
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for City Hall, and
telephone number of City Hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
   (E)   Office hours. The City Clerk/Tax Collector shall maintain regular
office hours from 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for
holidays, for the purpose of conducting city business. ('78 Code, 130.2, § II
(c))
   (F)   Compensation. The compensation of the City Clerk/Tax Collector shall
be a sum as set by ordinance, following the procedures set forth in §
31.02.
(Ord. 6-2-82, passed 3-11-82; Am. Ord. 74(2-8-95), passed 2-8-95)
Cross-reference:
   Office Administration Department, see §
32.42
§ 31.37 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   Establishment. The office of City Treasurer is hereby established.
   (B)   Appointment. The City Treasurer shall be appointed by the City
Commission pursuant to KRS 83A.080 and may be removed by the City Commission at
will.
   (C)   Oath and bond. No person shall be appointed or act as the City
Treasurer unless such person has taken the oath required by Section 228 of the
State Constitution, has provided a bond in the sum of $2,500 with corporate
surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and conditioned upon the
performance of the duties specified herein, and has the following
qualifications:
      (1)   Training and experience. Graduation from an accredited college or
university with a major in accounting, business, or public administration
supplemented by two years of responsible experience; or any combination of
education, training, and experience which provides the necessary knowledge,
skills, and abilities to perform effectively the duties of the position is
required. Knowledge at the CPA level may prove to be increasingly desirable for
this position in the long-term.
      (2)   Special knowledge, skills, and abilities. Thorough knowledge of the
theories and practices of municipal fiscal administration and accounting;
thorough knowledge of state and local laws and ordinances; thorough knowledge
of banking practices and methods involved in the receipt and disbursement of
money and in keeping bank cash and related fiscal records; ability to establish
and maintain effective working relationships with employees, governmental
officials, and the public; analytical ability; thoroughness and accuracy;
ability to present financial data clearly and concisely, both orally and in
writing; integrity; tact; patience; initiative and resourcefulness;
orderliness; sound judgment; and precision are required.
   (D)   Functions, powers, and duties. Subject to the general supervision of
the City Commission, the City Treasurer shall:
      (l)   Supervise and control the money, funds, and financial affairs of
the city, and act as the Treasurer and chief financial officer thereof.
      (2)   Receive and safely keep all money belonging to the city and pay all
obligations thereof as directed by statute, ordinance, or municipal or
executive order; and prepare and maintain an accurate account of all receipts
and expenditures of the city.
   (E)   Compensation. The compensation of the City Treasurer shall be a sum as
set by ordinance, following the procedures set forth in §
31.02.
(Ord. 5-2-82, passed 3-11-82)
§ 31.38 CITY ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE.
   (A)   Establishment. The position of City Administrative Officer is hereby
established.
   (B)   Appointment. The City Administrative Officer shall be appointed by the
City Commission and may be removed by the City Commission at will unless
otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (C)   Training and Experience. Graduation from an accredited college or
university with a degree in business or public administration or closely
related field supplemented by three years or progressively responsible
experience in management; or any combination of education, training and
experience which provides the necessary knowledge, skills and abilities to
perform effectively the duties of the position.
   (D)   Special Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. Extensive knowledge of the
principles and practices of contemporary private or public administration with
emphasis on the planning, implementation, execution and evaluation of policies
and programs. Working knowledge of legal and technical aspects of operations
and equipment. Working knowledge of executive and legislative policies,
procedures and practices. Ability to establish and maintain effective working
relationships with employees, public and private officials, and the general
public. Ability to communicate effectively orally and in writing. Initiative
and resourcefulness. Analytical ability. Leadership and administrative
abilities. Tact. Diplomacy. Firmness. Patience. Integrity. Sound Judgment.
   (E)   Duties and Responsibilities. Duties and responsibilities of the City
Administrative Officer shall include, but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Advise the City Commission of the city in policy formulation on
overall problems of the city;
      (2)   Have major responsibility for preparation and administration of
operating and capital improvement budgets under direction of the executive
authority;
      (3)   Advise the executive authority of the city in the appointment of
subordinate administrative personnel if not delegated appointment authority by
appropriate order; and
      (4)   Have continuing direct relationships with operating department
heads on implementation and administration of programs.
      (5)   Perform the duties of the City Alcoholic Beverage Control
Administrator as permitted by KRS 241.160.
      (6)   Have all additional duties lawfully delegated by appropriate order
of the City Commission.
      (7)   Have the same powers as the City Commission in carrying out such
duties.
      (8)   Have responsibility for overall supervision of any and all
departments of the city.
(Ord. 53, passed 7-28-93; Am. Ord. 55, passed 8-11-93; Am. Ord. 74(2-8-95),
passed 2-8-95; Am. Ord. 110(05-14-97), passed 5-14-97)
CITY EMPLOYEES
§ 31.45 LEGAL COUNSEL.
   (A)   The position of Legal Counsel for the city shall be filled on a
retainer basis.
   (B)   The Legal Counsel will be responsible for preparing routine
ordinances, attending regular City Commission meetings, giving legal advice to
the City Commission, and other routine matters.
   (C)   The Commission is authorized to execute an annual personal service
contract with the person so selected.
§ 31.46 BUILDING INSPECTOR/ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   For provisions concerning the Building Inspector/Zoning Administrator, see §
150.06.
Cross reference:
   For provisions concerning other employees, see also
Chapter 37 and
T.S.O. VIII.
CHAPTER 32: CITY COMMISSION
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
   
32.04   Each Commissioner to superintend specific city departments
Rules of Procedure
   
32.20   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.21   Meetings
   
32.22   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.35   One subject; title
   
32.36   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.37   Form of amendment
   
32.38   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.39   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.40   Official city records
   
32.41   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.42   Publication requirements
   
32.43   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.44   Periodic review required
   
32.45   Municipal orders
   
32.46   Proved by City Clerk/Tax Collector; received in evidence
   
32.47   Legislative immunity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Commissioner shall be elected at-large
by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for City
Commission shall be a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to
his or her election. Terms of office begin on the first day of January
following his or her election and shall be for two years, except as provided by
§
31.20.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4), (5))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02.
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on the Commission occur in a way
that one or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30
days fill the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable
notice of his selection as will enable him to meet and act with the remaining
members in making further appointments until all vacancies are filled. If
vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor shall
appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute a
quorum. Remaining vacancies shall be filled as provided in this section.
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Commission shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Commission. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the official’s
electronic mail address and includes also the official’s handwritten signature.
The resignation shall be effective at the next regular or special meeting of
the Commission occurring on or after the date specified in the written letter
of resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation
shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of
the legislative body occurring on or after its receipt. (KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs on the City Commission which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Commission shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy. (KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason, any vacancy in the
Commission is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   All legislative, executive, and administrative authority of the city
is hereby vested in and exercised by the Commission. The Commission shall
enforce the Commission Plan, ordinances and orders of the city, and all
applicable statutes.
      (1)   The Commission shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (2)   The Commission shall supervise all departments of city government
and the conduct of all city officers and employees under its jurisdiction and
may require each department to make such reports to it as it finds necessary.
      (3)   The Commission shall report to the public on the condition and
needs of the city government as provided by ordinance, but not less than
annually. (KRS 83A.140 (3))
   (B)   In carrying out its duty to supervise the departments of city
government and the conduct of all city officers and employees under its
jurisdiction, the Commission may require any city officer or employee to
prepare and submit to it sworn statements regarding the performance of his
official duties. (KRS 83A.140 (5))
   (C)   The Commission shall by ordinance establish all appointive offices and
the duties and responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and
regulations for the public health, safety, and welfare. (KRS 83A.140 (8))
   (D)   The Commission shall promulgate procedures to insure orderly
administration of the functions of city government and compliance with statute,
ordinance, or order. (KRS 83A.140 (8))
   (E)   The Commission shall by ordinance provide for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate such funds in a budget which
shall provide for the orderly management of the city's resources. (KRS 83A.140
(8))
§ 32.04 EACH COMMISSIONER TO SUPERINTEND SPECIFIC CITY DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   All administrative and service functions of the city shall be
classified under departments created by ordinance which shall prescribe the
functions of the department and the duties and responsibilities of the
department head and his employees.
   (B)   The Commission shall at its first regular meeting in each year
designate the Commission member to have superintendence over each department
established under this section.
(KRS 83A.140 (6))
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.20 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Commission and may vote in
all proceedings. (KRS 83A.140(4))
Cross-reference:
   Vacancy in office of Mayor; Mayor Pro Tem, see §
31.21(C), (E)
§ 32.21 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the City Commission shall be conducted at the
Taylor Mill City Building, 5225 Taylor Mill Road, Taylor Mill, Kentucky, at 7:
00 p.m., prevailing time, on the second Wednesday of each calendar month,
unless that day is a legal holiday.
   (B)   Caucus meetings of the City Commission shall be conducted at the
Taylor Mill City Building, 5225 Taylor Mill Road, Taylor Mill, Kentucky, at 10:
00 a.m., prevailing time, on the fourth Wednesday of each calendar month,
unless that day is a legal holiday. There shall be no formal action taken at a
caucus meeting.
(Ord. 6-27-90, passed 6-27-90; Am. Ord. 87(2-28-96), passed 2-28-96; Am. Ord.
108(4-9-97), passed 4-9-97; Am. Ord. 168(1-24-01), passed 1-24-01; Am. Ord. 211
(5-26-04), passed 5-26-04; Am. Ord. 375(02-09-22), passed 2-9-22)
   (C)   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or a majority of the City
Commissioners. In the call, the Mayor or City Commissioners shall designate the
purpose, time, and place of the special meeting with sufficient notice for the
attendance of Commission members and for compliance with KRS Chapter 61.
   (D) At a special meeting no business may be considered other than that set
forth in the designation of purpose.
   (E)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person responsible
for maintaining city records as provided under §
31.36 and by the officer presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.140 (7))
§ 32.22 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Commission
constitutes a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take
action.
(KRS 83A.060 (6))
Cross reference:
   See Public Meetings,
Chapter 34A
ORDINANCES
§ 32.35 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace but one subject and shall have a title which
shall clearly state the subject.
(KRS 83A.060 (l))
§ 32.36 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled "Be it ordained by the City of Taylor Mill."
(KRS 83A.060 (2))
§ 32.37 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060 (3))
§ 32.38 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance shall
be enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Commission may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.42 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060 (4),(7))
§ 32.39 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Commission may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or
nationally recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance which identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, provided a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance
and is made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060 (5))
§ 32.40 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Commission is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Commission shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Commission has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.36(C) and
32.41, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk/Tax Collector and the presiding officer shall sign the
official record of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060 (8))
§ 32.41 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted by the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk/Tax Collector in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060 (8))
§ 32.42 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.38(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   The publication requirements for ordinances, including all bond and
zoning ordinances, may be satisfied by publication in full or in summary as
designated by the Council.
   (C)   The requirements for summary publication are satisfied by publication
of the title, a brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance
in a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and
understandable manner of the meaning of the ordinance, and the full text of
each section that imposed fines, penalties, forfeitures, taxes, or fees
prepared and certified by an attorney licensed to practice law in the
Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (D)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks such as streets or roads,
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060 (9))
§ 32.43 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060 (10))
§ 32.44 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent,
and invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060 (11))
§ 32.45 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   The Commission may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall
be in writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be
amended only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted
shall be maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the Commission has control.
(KRS 83A.060 (12), (13))
§ 32.46 PROVED BY CITY CLERK/TAX COLLECTOR; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk/Tax Collector; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of
ordinances by authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in
evidence by any state court without further proof of such ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060 (14))
§ 32.47 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, City Commissioners shall be entitled to the
same immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060 (15))
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
   
33.06   Policy on bad checks sent to city
Improvements
   
33.10   Definitions
   
33.11   Financing of improvements
   
33.12   Apportionment of cost
   
33.13   Comprehensive report required
   
33.14   Public hearing required
   
33.15   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.16   Affected owner may contest
   
33.17   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.18   Effect of additional property or change in financing
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   "BUDGET." A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   "DEBT SERVICE." The sum of money required to pay installments of principal
and interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a
fiscal year and to maintain sinking funds.
   "ENCUMBRANCES." Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an encumbrance
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   "FISCAL YEAR." The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   "GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS." Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities, and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
(KRS 91A.010(6))
   "GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING." Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010(7))
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles;
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. No money shall
be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund, except in accordance
with a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Monies held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Commission.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in such form and detail as is
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to the Commission not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal
year it covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the
governmental goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain
important features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the
reasons for stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs,
and appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   The Commission may adopt the budget ordinance making
appropriations for the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and
proper, whether greater or less than the sums recommended in the budget
proposal. The budget ordinance may take any form that the Commission finds most
efficient in enabling it to make the necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of
section 157 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   The Commission may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance's adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Commission. Such responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to the Commission of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. These reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
30.02.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer, or employee thereof, may
bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money at that time
appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts, agreements, and
obligations, express or implied, beyond such existing appropriations are void;
nor shall any city officer issue any bond, certificate, or warrant for the
payment of money by the city in any way to any extent, beyond the balance of
any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   Each city shall, after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund
of the city to be audited by the Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified
public accountant. The audit shall be completed by March 1 immediately
following the fiscal year being audited. The city shall forward an electronic
copy of the audit report to the Department for Local Government for information
purposes by no later than April 1 immediately following the fiscal year being
audited.
   (B)   If a city is required by another provision of law to audit its funds
more frequently or more stringently than is required by this section, the city
shall also comply with the provisions of that law.
   (C)   The Department for Local Government shall, upon request, make
available electronic copies of the audit reports and financial statements
received by it under division (A) of this section to the Legislative Research
Commission to be used for the purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975 or to the Auditor
of Public Accounts.
   (D)   Each city required by this section to conduct an annual or biennial
audit shall enter into a written contract with the selected auditor. The
contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall
include but not be limited to requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements,
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual or biennial city audit
report an examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to
the city under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification
with the annual or biennial audit report that the funds were expended for the
purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which include tests of the accounting
records and auditing procedures considered necessary in the circumstances.
Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal funds, appropriate
state or Federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor's opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit;
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the city legislative body at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant's work papers upon request.
   (E)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to a
city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (F)   Each city shall, within thirty (30) days after the presentation of an
audit to the city legislative body, publish an advertisement in accordance with
KRS Chapter 424 containing:
      (1)   The auditor's opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules-Major Funds,” which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at city hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from city hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed twenty-five cents ($0.25) per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220, when a financial statement is required by KRS
424.220, are available to the public at no cost at the business address of the
officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (G)   Any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city may
bring an action in the Circuit Court to enforce the provisions of this section.
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined not less
than fifty dollars ($50) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500). In
addition, any officer who fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
section shall, for each failure, be subject to a forfeiture of not less than
fifty dollars ($50) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500), in the
discretion of the court, which may be recovered only once in a civil action
brought by any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city.
The costs of all proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the attorney of
the resident or property owner bringing the action, shall be assessed against
the unsuccessful party.
   (H)   In the event of extenuating circumstances that prevent a city from
completing and submitting a required audit or financial statement in compliance
with the applicable deadlines in division (A) of this section, the city may
submit a written request for an extension of time to the Department for Local
Government on a form prescribed by the Department for Local Government. The
Department for Local Government shall approve the request if it is submitted on
or before the applicable deadline and, in the judgment of the Department for
Local Government, the request is warranted by extenuating circumstances beyond
the control of the city. Extensions granted under this subsection shall not
exceed nine (9) months from the original due date of the audit or financial
statement. If the Department for Local Government approves an extension for a
city and the city fails to complete and submit the required audit or financial
statement in compliance with that extended deadline, then the provisions of
division (I) of this section shall apply.
   (I)   If a city fails to complete an audit or financial statement and submit
it to the Department for Local Government as required in divisions (A) and (H)
of this section, the Department for Local Government shall notify the Finance
and Administration Cabinet that the city has failed to comply with the audit
requirements of this section, and that any funds in the possession of any
agency, entity, or branch of state government shall be withheld from the city
until further notice. The Department for Local Government shall immediately
notify the Finance and Administration Cabinet when the city complies with the
requirements of divisions (A) and (H) of this section for all prior fiscal
years it has failed to comply with the audit requirements of this section, and
the Finance and Administration Cabinet shall direct the reinstatement of
payments to the city, including any funds that were withheld due to the
noncompliance.
   (J)   Within a reasonable time after the completion of a special audit or
examination conducted pursuant to KRS 43.050, the Auditor shall bill the city
for the actual expense of the audit or examination conducted. The actual
expense shall include the hours of work performed on the audit or examination
as well as reasonable associated costs, including but not limited to travel
costs. The bill submitted to the city shall include a statement of the hourly
rate, total hours, and total costs for the entire audit or examination.
(KRS 91A.040)
   (K)   In lieu of the auditing requirements set forth in KRS 91A.040, if the
city for the fiscal year in question receives and expends, from all sources,
and for all purposes, less than $25,000, and which has no long-term debt,
whether general obligation or revenue debt, the city may comply fully with the
provisions of KRS 424.220 in lieu of the requirements listed in divisions (A)
through (I) above.
(KRS 91A.041)
   (L)   Any city may, when the cost of the newspaper publication exceeds the
cost of postage, supplies, and reproduction for the alternative method of
publication, in lieu of newspaper publication of advertisement, substitute
delivery of a copy of the advertisement by first class mail to each residence
within the publication area. Any city electing to use the alternative
publication methods authorized by this section shall forward an electronic copy
of its audit report or an electronic copy of its financial statement, whichever
is applicable, to the Department for Local Government in accordance with KRS
91A.040 and 424.220.
(KRS 424.190(2))
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Commission shall designate as the city's official depositories one
or more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the Commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with 12 U.S.C. sec. 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any
obligations, including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Commission which
states the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the
payment and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization
shall be numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060)
§ 33.06 POLICY ON BAD CHECKS SENT TO CITY.
   (A)   Nobody shall cause, promote, aid, assist, encourage, allow or engage
in the issuance of a check to the city without maintaining sufficient funds on
deposit in the account for the payment thereof.
   (B)   For each check returned to the city for insufficient funds, there is
hereby established a fee of $13.00 for the additional administrative expenses
of the city as a consequence thereof, which shall be added to the taxes, fines,
fees or penalties for which the returned check was issued.
(Ord. 146(3-24-99), passed 3-24-99)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.10 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   "ASSESSED VALUE BASIS." The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property
bears to the total assessed value of all such properties.
   "BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS." The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by the Commission of the special benefit
received by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis,
front foot basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may
include consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different
classes of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received,
and other factors affecting benefits received.
   "COST." All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs, and publication expenses.
   "FAIR BASIS." Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   "FRONT FOOT BASIS." The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to such front footage of all such properties.
   "IMPROVEMENT." Construction of any facility for public use or services or
any addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by such facility.
   "PROPERTY." Any real property benefitted by an improvement.
   "SPECIAL ASSESSMENT" or "ASSESSMENT." A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   "SQUARE FOOT BASIS." The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all such property.
(KRS 91A.210)
§ 33.11 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement, in whole or in part, through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes. (KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
Statutory reference:
   Improvements; alternate methods, see KRS Ch. 107
§ 33.12 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization. The
Commission may assess such property in the same manner as for privately owned
property or it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230)
§ 33.13 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240)
§ 33.14 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   After preparation of the report required by §
33.13, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard. Notice of the
hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, and mailed to each
affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall
include:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   Description of area of the improvement;
   (C)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in whole
or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
   (D)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
   (E)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250)
§ 33.15 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.13 and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage the city shall
publish such ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by certified
mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to proceed with
the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to
the property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the
total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260)
§ 33.16 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.15, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his property in the improvement, or the amount of his
assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by the
special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution are final and binding with respect to such
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270)
§ 33.17 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.16, or after favorable final judgment in any such action, whichever comes
later, the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the
action, including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment
thereon and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The
first installment may be apportioned so that the other payments will coincide
with payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Commission shall
exempt any benefitted property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280)
§ 33.18 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that§ §
33.13 through
33.17 applies if additional property is included in the improvement or if
change is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property
may be included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof
without compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost
apportioned to any other property, or any other change may be made without such
compliance if all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.05   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.06   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.07   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.08   Format of copies
   
34.09   Fees for copies
   
34.10   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
34.11   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
34.12   Public records protected from disclosure
   
34.13   Rules and regulations for the inspection and/or copying of public
records
GENERAL
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   "CITY." The city government of this city.
   "COMMERCIAL PURPOSE." The direct or indirect use of any public record or
records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease of a
service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. "COMMERCIAL PURPOSE" shall not include publication
or related use of a public record by a newspaper or periodical; use of a public
record by a radio or television station in its news or other informational
programs; or use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   "CUSTODIAN." The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records. The "CUSTODIAN" having personal custody
of most of the public records of this city is the City Clerk/Tax Collector.
   "OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN." The chief administrative officer or any other officer
or employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care,
and keeping of public records, regardless of whether the records are in his
actual personal custody and control. The "OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN" of this city
shall be the Mayor.
   "MECHANICAL PROCESSING." Any operation or other procedure which is
transacted on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier,
computer, recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
   "MEDIA." The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
   "PERSON." A human being who makes a request for inspection of public
records.
   "PUBLIC AGENCY." Every city government board, commission, and authority;
every city board, commission and committee; every school district board,
special district board, and municipal corporation; every city government
agency, including the policy-making board of an institution of education
created by or pursuant to state or local statute, executive order, ordinance,
resolution, or other legislative act; any body created by or pursuant to state
or local statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or other legislative
act in the legislative or executive branch of government; any entity when the
majority of its governing body is appointed by a "public agency," as defined by
this section; a member or employee of a "public agency," a state or local
officer, or any combination thereof; any board, commission, committee,
subcommittee, ad hoc committee, advisory committee, council or agency, except
for a committee of a hospital medical staff or a committee formed for the
purpose of evaluating the qualifications of public agency employees,
established, created, or controlled by a "public agency" as defined in this
section; an interagency body of two (2) or more public agencies where each
"public agency" is defined in this section.
(KRS 61.805(2))
   "PUBLIC RECORDS." All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of,
or retained by a public agency. "PUBLIC RECORDS" shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for a body referred to in subsection (1)(h) of KRS
61.870 that are not related to functions, activities, programs, or operations
funded by state or local authority nor any records that may be excluded by §
34.12.
   "REASONABLE FEE" or "FEE." The fair payment required by a public agency for
making copies of non exempt public records requested for noncommercial purposes
which shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the cost of
media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but not
including the cost of staff. If a public agency is asked to produce a record in
a nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request of an
individual or a group, the public agency may at its discretion provide the
requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs incurred.
   "REQUEST." An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the city.
   "SOFTWARE." The program code which makes a computer system function, but
does not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency's computer system. "SOFTWARE" consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency. (KRS 61.870)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.05 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   The principal office of the city is in the city building at 5225
Taylor Mill Road, and the regular office hours thereof are after 8:30 a.m. and
before 5:00 p.m., prevailing time, on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays
and Fridays, which aren't holidays.
   (B)   The official custodian of the records of the city is the City Clerk,
pursuant to KRS 83A.085(3); and the address thereof is 5225 Taylor Mill Road.
   (C)   All public records shall be open for inspection by any person except
as otherwise provided by KRS 61.870 to 61.884, and suitable facilities shall be
made available by the city for the exercise of this right.
   (D)   The public records requested shall be described in a written
application therefor, which shall be signed by the applicant, with the name
thereof printed legibly on the application, and which shall be either hand
delivered, mailed, or sent via facsimile to the city.
   (E)   The public records described in the written application therefor may
be inspected during the regular office hours of the city; or by receiving
copies therefor from the city through the mail.
   (F)   Nobody shall remove original copies of public records from the offices
of the city.
   (G)   If the public record requested is in active use, in storage or not
otherwise available, the City Clerk shall immediately so notify the applicant
and shall designate a place, time and date, for the inspection of the public
records, not to exceed three days from the receipt of the application unless a
detailed explanation of the cause is given for further delay and the place,
time and earliest date on which the public record will be available for
inspection.
   (H)   If the application placed is an unreasonable burden on the city in
producing the public records requested, or if the city clerk has reason to
believe that repeated requests are intended to disrupt other essential
functions of the city, the City Clerk may refuse to permit inspection of the
public records or mail copies thereof.
(Ord. 147, passed 3-24-99)
§ 34.06 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official or employee of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any
record with the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules
and regulations.
§ 34.07 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or in
which he is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate identification,
subject to the provisions of this chapter. (KRS 61.884)
§ 34.08 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of § 34.16. When copies are requested, the
custodian may require a written request and advance payment of the prescribed
fee, including postage where appropriate. If the applicant desires copies of
public records other than written records, the custodian of the records shall
duplicate the records or permit the applicant to duplicate the records;
however, the custodian shall ensure that such duplication will not damage or
alter the original records.
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than 8½ inches x 11 inches in at least one color on white paper, or for
electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard Code for
Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and this format
conforms to the requestor's requirements, the public record may be provided in
this alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(1) - (3))
§ 34.09 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   The public agency may prescribe a reasonable fee for making copies of
nonexempt public records requested for use for noncommercial purposes which
shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of the
media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but not
including the cost of staff required. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request
of an individual or a group, the public agency may at its discretion provide
the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs
incurred.
   (B)   (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) of this section may be
based on one or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing, and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records;
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase, or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(3),(4))
Cross-reference:
   Fees for online access to public records, see §
34.11
§ 34.10 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
34.13;
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.11 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license, or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
34.13.
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 34.12 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations, and shall be subject to inspection
only upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except that no court
shall authorize the inspection by any party of any materials pertaining to
civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the Rules of Civil Procedure
governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy.
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall
not, however, apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
directed by other statute.
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by
an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if opened would permit an unfair commercial advantage to
competitors of the entity that disclosed the records.
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained (I) in conjunction with an
application or the administration of a loan or grant; (ii) in conjunction with
an application for or the administration of assessments, incentives,
inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS Chapter 154; (iii) in
conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise, including mineral
exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable plans,
appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making, preparing,
compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which are trade
commodities obtained from a person; or (iv) for the grant or review of a
license to do business. These exemptions shall not, however, apply to records
the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statutes.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business'
or industry's interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(3) above.
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency's internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods.
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision.
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again.
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action. The exemptions provided by this subdivision
shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the
exercise of rights granted by this chapter.
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency.
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended.
      (11) All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation or state law.
      (12) Public records or information the disclosure of which is prohibited
or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the General
Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of Revenue in
tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure under KRS
131.190.
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Security and response needs assessments;
            5.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include but not be limited to information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage and gas systems.
            6.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division: detailed drawings, schematics,
maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and operating,
utility or security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied, leased
or maintained by a public agency; and
            7.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, TERRORIST ACT means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (a)5.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division, that public agency
shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS
61.880(1), to the executive director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law.
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapter 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited;
      (16)   Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Chapter 31;
      (17)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function; and
      (18)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of:
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party;
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for a person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos.
      (19)   Records confidentially maintained by a law enforcement agency in
accordance with a wellness program, including an early intervention system, as
described in this chapter; and
      (20)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person.
   (C)   No exemption in this section shall be construed to deny, abridge, or
impede the right of a public agency employee, including university employees,
an applicant for employment, or an eligible on a register to inspect and to
copy any record including preliminary and other supporting documentation that
relates to him or her. The records shall include, but not be limited to, work
plans, job performance, demotions, evaluations, promotions, compensation,
classification, reallocation, transfers, lay-offs, disciplinary actions,
examination scores, and preliminary and other supporting documentation. A
public agency employee, including university employees, applicant, or eligible
shall not have the right to inspect or to copy any examination or any documents
relating to ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by an agency.
   (D)   If any public record contains material which is not excepted under
this section, the public agency shall separate the excepted and make the
nonexcepted material available for examination.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (F)   When material is made available pursuant to a request under division
(A)(18) of this section, the public agency shall not be required to make a copy
of the recording except as provided in KRS 61.169, and the requesting parties
shall not be limited in the number of times they may view the material.
(KRS 61.878)
§ 34.13 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR THE INSPECTION AND/OR COPYING OF THE PUBLIC
RECORDS.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 61.876, the "Rules and Regulations for the Inspection
and/or Copying of the Public Records of the City of Taylor Mill" and the
applications therefore are hereby adopted.
   (B)   Public records inspection.
      (1)   Non-exempt public records of the City of Taylor Mill may be
inspected during the regular office hours of the City (8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.,
prevailing time, Monday through Friday, except for city holidays), provided
that the city receives a written application therefore by hand delivery, mail
or facsimile, which specifically describes the records to be inspected, and
signed by the applicant, with the name of the applicant legibly printed
thereon.
      (2)   If the public record is in active use, in storage or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time and date for inspection of the public records,
not to exceed three days from the receipt of the application, unless a detailed
explanation of the cause is given for further delay and the place, tine and
earliest date on which the public records will be available for inspection is
specified.
      (3)   The principal office of the City of Taylor Mill is at 5225 Taylor
Mill Road, Taylor Mill, Kentucky 41015.
      (4)   The title and address of the official custodian of the records of
the City of Taylor Mill is the City Clerk, 5225 Taylor Mill Road, Taylor Mill,
Kentucky 41015.
   (C)   Copies of the public records of the City of Taylor Mill are available
upon the receipt by the city of a written request therefore, and the advance
payment of any required postage and a fee of $0.10 per page for copies for non-
commercial purposes, and a fee for copies for commercial purposes of the total
of both, (1) the cost to the city of media, mechanical processing and staff
required to produce a copy of the public record or records, and (2) the cost to
the city of the creation, purchase or other acquisition of the record to be
copied, as determined by the City Administrative Officer.
(Ord. 191(7-24-02), passed 7-24-02)
CHAPTER 34A: PUBLIC MEETINGS
Section
General
   
34A.01   Definitions
Public Meeting Requirements
   
34A.05   Meetings open to the public
   
34A.06   Requirements for closed sessions
   
34A.07   Public meeting schedules
   
34A.08   Special meetings
   
34A.09   Video teleconferences
   
34A.10   Enforcement
GENERAL
§ 34A.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   "ACTION TAKEN." A collective decision, a commitment or promise to make a
positive or negative decision, or an actual vote by a majority of the members
of the governmental body.
(KRS 61.805(3))
   "MEETING." All gatherings of every kind, including video teleconferences,
regardless of where the meeting is held, and whether regular or special and
informational or casual gatherings held in anticipation of or in conjunction
with a regular or special meeting.
(KRS 61.805(1))
   "MEMBER." A member of the governing body of a public agency. "Member" does
not include employees or licensees of the agency.
(KRS 61.805(4))
   "PUBLIC AGENCY." Every city government board, commission, and authority;
every city, commission and committee; every school district board, special
district board, and municipal corporation; every city government agency,
including the policy-making board of an institution of education created by or
pursuant to state or local statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or
other legislative act; any body created by or pursuant to state or local
statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or other legislative act in
the legislative or executive branch of government; any entity when the majority
of its governing body is appointed by a "public agency", as defined by this
section; a member or employee of a "public agency", a state or local officer,
or any combination thereof; any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad
hoc committee, advisory committee, council or agency, except for a committee of
a hospital medical staff or a committee formed for the purpose of evaluating
the qualifications of public agency employees, established, created, or
controlled by a "public agency" as defined in this section; an interagency body
of two or more public agencies where each "public agency" is defined in this
section.
(KRS 61.805(2))
   "VIDEO TELECONFERENCE." One meeting, occurring in two or more locations,
where individuals can see and hear each other by means of video and audio
equipment.
(KRS 61.805(5))
PUBLIC MEETING REQUIREMENTS
§ 34A.05 MEETINGS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
   (A) All meetings of a quorum of the members of any public agency at which
any public business is discussed or at which any action is taken by the agency,
shall be public meetings, open to the public at all times, except for the
following:
      (1)   Deliberations on the future acquisition or sale of real property by
a public agency, but only when publicity would be likely to affect the value of
a specific piece of property to be acquired for public use or sold by a public
agency;
      (2)   Discussions of proposed or pending litigation against or on behalf
of the public agency;
      (3)   Collective bargaining negotiations between public employers and
their employees or their representatives;
      (4)   Discussions or hearings which might lead to the appointment,
discipline, or dismissal of an individual employee, member, or student without
restricting that employee's, member's or student's right to a public hearing if
requested. This exception shall not be interpreted to permit discussion of
general personnel matters in secret;
      (5)   Discussions between a public agency and a representative of a
business entity and discussions concerning a specific proposal, if open
discussions would jeopardize the siting, retention, expansion, or upgrading of
the business;
      (6)   Local cabinet meetings and executive cabinet meetings;
      (7)   Deliberations of quasi-judicial bodies regarding individual
adjudications or appointments, at which neither the person involved, his
representatives, nor any other individual not a member of the agency's
governing body or staff is present, but not including any meetings of planning
commissions, zoning commissions, or boards of adjustment;
      (8)   That portion of a meeting devoted to a discussion of a specific
public record exempted from disclosure under KRS 61.878(1)(m). However, that
portion of any public agency meeting shall not be closed to a member of the
Kentucky General Assembly;
      (9)   Meetings which federal or state law specifically require to be
conducted in privacy; and
      (10)   Meetings which the Constitution provides shall be held in secret.
      (11)   Meetings of any selection committee, evaluation committee, or
other similar group established under KRS Chapter 45A or 56 or other state or
local law to select a successful bidder for award of a state or local contract.
   (B) Any series of less than quorum meetings, where the members attending one
or more of the meetings collectively constitute at least a quorum of the
members of the public agency and where the meetings are held for the purpose of
avoiding the requirements of subsection (A) of this section, shall be subject
to the requirements of subsection (A) of this section. Nothing in this
subsection shall be construed to prohibit discussion between individual members
where the purpose of the discussions is to educate the members on specific
issues.
(KRS 61.810)
§ 34A.06 REQUIREMENTS FOR CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   The following requirements shall be met as a condition for conducting
closed sessions by those public agencies authorized by §
34A.05(A)(1) and (4) except as (4) relates to students:
      (1)   Notice shall be given in regular open meetings of the general
nature of the business to be discussed in closed session, the reason for the
closed session, and the specific provision of §
34A.05 authorizing the closed session;
      (2)   Closed sessions may be held only after a motion is made and carried
by a majority vote in open, public session;
      (3)   No final action may be taken in closed session; and
      (4)   No matters may be discussed at a closed session other than those
publicly announced prior to convening the closed session.
   (B)   Public agencies and activities identified in §
34A.05(A) paragraphs (2), (3), (4), but only so far as (4) relates to students,
(5), (6), (7), (8), (9) and (10) are excluded from the requirements of
subsection (A) of this section.
(KRS 61.815)
§ 34A.07 PUBLIC MEETING SCHEDULES.
   (A)   All meetings of a public agency shall be held at specified times and
places which are convenient to the public. In considering locations for public
meetings, the agency shall evaluate space requirements, seating capacity, and
acoustics.
   (B)   All public agencies shall provide for a schedule of regular meetings
by ordinance, order, resolution, by laws or by whatever other means may be
required for the conduct of business of the public agency. The schedule of
regular meetings shall be made available to the public.
(KRS 61.820)
§ 34A.08 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided by subsection (B) of this section, the following
requirements shall govern special meetings of public agencies:
   (B)   The presiding officer or a majority of the members of the public
agency may call a special meeting;
   (C)   The public agency shall provide written notice of the special meeting
containing the date, time, place of the special meeting and the agenda.
Discussions and action at the meeting shall be limited to items listed on the
agenda in the notice.
   (D)   (1)   As soon as possible, written notice shall be delivered
personally, transmitted by facsimile, or mailed to every member of the public
agency as well as each media organization which has filed a written request,
including a mailing address, to receive notice of special meetings. The notice
shall be received at least twenty-four (24) hours before the special meeting.
The public agency may periodically, but no more often than once in a calendar
year, inform media organizations that they will have to submit a new written
request or no longer receive written notice of special meetings until a new
written request is filed.
      (2)   A public agency may satisfy the requirements of subsection (1) of
this section by transmitting the written notice by electronic mail to public
agency members and media organizations that have filed a written request with
the public agency indicating their preference to receive electronic mail
notification in lieu of notice by personal delivery, facsimile machine, or
mail. The written request shall include the electronic mail address or
addresses of the agency member or media organization.
      (3)   As soon as possible, written notice shall also be posted in a
conspicuous place in the building where the special meeting will take place and
in a conspicuous place in the building which houses the headquarters of the
agency. The notice shall be posted at least twenty-four (24) hours before the
special meeting.
   (E)   In the case of an emergency which prevents compliance with the notice
requirements in this section, this subsection shall govern a public agency's
conduct of a special meeting. The special meeting shall be called pursuant to
subsection (B) of this section. The public agency shall make a reasonable
effort, under emergency circumstances, to notify the members of the agency,
media organizations which have filed a written request pursuant to this
section, and the public of the emergency meeting. At the beginning of the
emergency meeting, the person chairing the meeting shall briefly describe for
the record the emergency circumstances preventing compliance with the notice
requirements of this section. These comments shall appear in the minutes.
Discussion and action at the emergency meeting shall be limited to the
emergency for which the meeting is called.
(KRS 61.823)
§ 34A.09 VIDEO TELECONFERENCES.
   (A)   A public agency may conduct any meeting through video teleconference.
   (B)   Notice of a video teleconference meeting shall:
      (1)   Comply with the requirements of KRS 61.820 or 61.823 as
appropriate;
      (2)   Clearly state that the meeting will be a video teleconference;
      (3)   Provide specific information on how any member of the public or
media organization may view the meeting electronically; and
      (4)   In any case where the public agency has elected to provide a
physical location, or in any circumstance where two (2) or more members of the
public agency are attending a video teleconference meeting from the same
physical location, precisely identify a primary physical location of the video
teleconference where all members can be seen and heard and the public may
attend in accordance with KRS 61.840.
   (C)   The same procedure with regard to participation, distribution of
materials, and other matters shall apply in all video teleconference locations.
Members of the public agency who participate in a video teleconference shall
remain visible on camera at all times that business is being discussed.
   (D)   Any interruption in the video or audio broadcast of a video
teleconference at any location shall result in the suspension of the video
teleconference until the broadcast is restored.
   (E)   If a regular meeting is changed to a video conference, the meeting
shall remain a regular meeting if the meeting occurs on the same date and time
as originally scheduled and the public agency follows the provisions of KRS
61.823(4) to provide a notice that meets the requirements of subsection (B)(2)
to (4) of this section.
(KRS 61.826)
§ 34A.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced pursuant to KRS 61.846 and
61.848 for enforcing KRS 61.805 to 61.850.
Cross-reference:
   Rules of Procedure, see §§
32.20 -
32.22
CHAPTER 35: DEPARTMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Administrative and service functions classified into departments
   
35.02   Responsibilities of department heads
   
35.03   Responsibilities of employees
Police Department
   
35.15   Establishment; functions
   
35.16   Qualifications
   
35.17   Authority to carry concealed deadly weapons
   
35.18   Auxiliary Police Force
   
35.19   Police Department Rules and Regulations
   
35.20   Employment; training costs
   
35.21   Conditions for employment of untrained applicants as police officers
Fire Department
   
35.30   Establishment; functions
Other Administrative Departments
   
35.40   Finance Department
   
35.41   Land Use Planning and Zoning Department
   
35.42   Office Administration Department
   
35.43   Park and Recreation Department
   
35.44   Public Utilities Department
   
35.45   Public Works Department
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 ADMINISTRATIVE AND SERVICE FUNCTIONS CLASSIFIED INTO DEPARTMENTS.
   All administrative and service functions of the city are hereby classified
into the following departments established pursuant to KRS 83A.140 (6):
   (A)   Office Administration Department.
   (B)   Finance Department.
   (C)   Land Use Planning and Zoning Department.
   (D)   Police Department.
   (E)   Fire Department.
   (F)   Public Works Department.
   (G)   Public Utilities Department.
   (H)   Park and Recreation Department.
(Ord. 1-1-86, passed 1- -86)
§ 35.02 RESPONSIBILITIES OF DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   (A)   Subject to the budget therefor and the legislative, executive, and
administrative authority of the City Commission and all other laws and
regulations of any governmental agency having jurisdiction, the heads of the
departments established under §
35.01, other than the heads of the Fire Department, Public Utilities
Department, and the Parks and Recreation Department, shall have the duty and
responsibility for the general operation of the department which they head and
of the organization and supervision of the use of all funds, services, labor,
equipment, and material provided by the City Commission to accomplish the
functions described herein.
   (B)   The duty and responsibility of the heads of the Fire Department,
Public Utilities Department, and the Parks and Recreation Department shall be
limited to service as a liaison between the boards, commissions, or contractors
through which the functions of the department which they head are accomplished
pursuant to the provisions hereof. Periodic reports to the City Commission in
regard to the manner in which the functions of each of these three respective
departments are being accomplished and the compliance by such boards,
commissions, and contractors with the provisions of the ordinances and
contracts of the city and all laws, regulations, and orders of any other
governmental agency having jurisdiction shall also be provided.
(Ord. 1-1-86, passed 1- -86)
§ 35.03 RESPONSIBILITIES OF EMPLOYEES.
   The duties and responsibilities of the employees of each department
established under §
35.01, other than the Fire Department, Public Utilities Department, and the
Park and Recreation Department, shall be to accomplish the work assigned to
them by the head of the department in which they are employed or any authorized
delegate thereof, but subject to the legislative, executive, and administrative
authority of the City Commission and the laws and regulations of any other
governmental agency having jurisdiction. In the Fire Department, Public
Utilities Department, and Parks and Recreation Department, there shall be no
employees of the department; all employees therein shall be employees of the
board, commission, or contractor through which the functions of the department
are accomplished, and shall be subject to the authority thereof.
(Ord. 1-1-86, passed 1- -86)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.15 ESTABLISHMENT; FUNCTIONS.
   Subject to the legislative, executive, and administrative authority of the
City Commission, all other laws and regulations of any other governmental
agency having jurisdiction, and the budget of the city, the function of the
Police Department shall be to provide for the enforcement of law and order
within the city; the prevention of criminal activity and the protection of all
persons and property within the city; and assistance in the prosecution of all
persons involved in any criminal activity in the city.
(Ord. 1-1-86, passed 1- -86)
§ 35.16 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Police Department shall be composed of members who shall be appointed by
ordinance. Members shall be at least 21 years of age, and shall not have been
convicted of any offense that would be punishable as a felony under the laws of
the Commonwealth of Kentucky or any other state. Members shall have high
ethical character and shall conduct themselves in a manner free from
impropriety. They shall at no time conduct themselves in such a manner as to
bring discredit to the police or to the city. Any member hired after July 14,
1992, must be a high school graduate or have received general equivalency
diploma (G.E.D.).
Statutory reference:
   Qualifications, see KRS 95.710
§ 35.17 AUTHORITY TO CARRY CONCEALED DEADLY WEAPONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authorization of KRS 527.020, police officers of the
city are hereby expressly authorized to carry concealed deadly weapons on or
about their person at all times within the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
(Ord. 2-3-82, passed 4-8-82)
   (B)   Further, peace officers may carry concealed weapons on or about their
person when necessary for their protection in the discharge of their official
duties, in accordance with KRS 527.020.
§ 35.18 AUXILIARY POLICE FORCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority of KRS 95.445, there is hereby established
an Auxiliary Police Force to perform special duties within the city.
   (B)   The Auxiliary Police Force shall be composed of no more than ten
members, each of whom shall be:
      (1)   Twenty-one years of age;
      (2)   A resident of the state;
      (3)   Honest, sober, and discreet, and of good reputation in the
community of his occupation and residence;
      (4)   Successful in the completion of standard physical and mental
examinations established and prescribed by the Chief of the Police Department;
and
      (5)   A graduate of an accredited high school or successful in the
completion of generally-recognized high school equivalency tests.
   (C)   The members of the Auxiliary Police Force shall be appointed by the
City Commission. Recommendations of the Chief of Police shall be taken into
consideration when making such appointments.
   (D)   Prior to engaging in any activity as a member of the Auxiliary Police
Force, each member shall take the oath required of police officers by state
law, and thereupon shall be considered to be peace officers of the city with
all of the powers, duties, and authority thereof. The exercise of such powers,
duties, and authority shall be limited to such locations, times, and
circumstances as are specifically designated by the Chief of Police; no member
of the Auxiliary Police Force shall act without such specific designation and
authorization by the Chief of Police.
   (E)   The function and duties of the Auxiliary Police Force shall be
supplementary to rather than in substitution for the function and duties of the
members of the Police Department. In the course thereof, the members of the
Auxiliary Police Force shall be subject to the direction, control, and
supervision of any member of the Police Department with whom any such member of
the Auxiliary Police Force is assigned to any activity.
   (F)   The members of the Auxiliary Police Force shall be subject to the
direct control and supervision of the Chief of Police who shall be responsible
for the operation of the Auxiliary Police Force under the general supervision
of the City Commission, and the training and activities of the members thereof.
There shall be no officers or rank within the membership of the Auxiliary
Police Force.
   (G)   No member of the Auxiliary Police Force shall engage in any activity
thereof unless he is in possession of a badge and identification card provided
by the city and is clothed in the uniform of the Auxiliary Police Force
approved by the Chief of Police, unless he is engaged in an activity in which
the disclosure of his membership in the Auxiliary Police Force would be
detrimental thereto and when such nonuniformed activity is specifically
authorized by the Chief of Police.
   (H)   Upon the failure of any member of the Auxiliary Police Force to comply
with any of the provisions hereof or of any order or direction of the Chief of
Police or any member of the Police Department to which the member of the
Auxiliary Police Force is responsible pursuant to the terms hereof, the City
Commission may either suspend or terminate the membership of that member in the
Auxiliary Police Force after providing the member with an opportunity for a
hearing in regard thereto.
   (I)   The members of the Auxiliary Police Force are hereby declared to be
agents of the city when they are acting within the course and scope of such
membership and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the city and the
Auxiliary Police Force. As such, they shall have all of the rights, privileges,
and immunities thereof. However, such members are not employees of the city but
rather are gratuitous volunteers who are not entitled to any compensation or
other monetary benefits or remuneration for their time, services, or expenses,
unless specifically authorized and approved by the City Commission.
(Ord. 2-5-84, passed - -84)
§ 35.19 POLICE DEPARTMENT RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Taylor Mill Police Department Rules and Regulations originally prepared
by the Northern Kentucky Area Development District in 1979 and revised in 1985
with assistance from the Government Services Institute of NKU, and any
subsequent amendments thereto which are adopted by the city by ordinance, are
made a part hereof by reference, and are made a part of the permanent records
of the city and are adopted as the official police rules and regulations of the
city.
§ 35.20 EMPLOYMENT; TRAINING COSTS.
   No applicant for employment as a police officer with the city who has not
successfully completed the basic training course described in KRS 15.440, shall
be employed without a written agreement signed by the applicant that, in the
event of any subsequent termination of employment as a police officer within
three (3) years, the applicant shall reimburse the city for all costs and
expenses incurred by the city for the applicant's participation in the basic
training course, including, without limitation, all salary and benefits paid to
or for the applicant. The following schedule of reimbursement shall apply:
   (A)   Termination within one (1) year of employment         100% of costs
   (B)   Termination between one (1) and two (2) years of
employment         75% of costs
   (C)   Termination between two (2) and three (3) years of
employment         50% of costs
(Ord. 10-23-91, passed 10-23-91)
§ 35.21 CONDITIONS FOR EMPLOYMENT OF UNTRAINED APPLICANTS AS POLICE OFFICERS.
   In addition to any other rules, regulations, policies and other conditions
of employment as a police officer of the city established by any other
ordinances and municipal orders of the City Commission, an applicant for
employment as a police officer of the City who has not graduated from the
Department of Criminal Justice Training or some other equivalent training
approved by the Kentucky Law Enforcement Commission and the Chief of the Taylor
Mill Police Department; shall also comply with the following requirements; and
no such applicant shall be employed as a police officer of the City without
complying with those requirements:
   (A)   Enter into an employment contract like or similar to the one attached
hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
   (B)   Successfully complete and graduate from the Department of Criminal
Justice Training, or other training approved by both the Kentucky Law
Enforcement Commission and the Chief of the Taylor Mill Police Department
within six months after conditional employment by the city.
(Ord. 343(04-10-2019), passed 4-10-19)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.30 ESTABLISHMENT; FUNCTIONS.
   Subject to the legislative, executive, and administrative authority of the
City Commission, all other laws and regulations of any other governmental
agency having jurisdiction, and the budget of the city, the function of the
Fire Department shall be to provide the following services to all persons and
property within the city through contracts with the Taylor Mill Volunteer Fire
Department as authorized by the City Commission:
   (A)   Protection against fire and other natural hazards;
   (B)   Emergency medical services;
   (C)   Transportation of persons who are sick, injured, or otherwise
physically or medically incapacitated to a hospital or other location for
medical treatment or other health-care services;
   (D)   The administrative enforcement of all ordinances, orders, regulations,
and other laws in regard to the physical safety of persons and property within
the city from the hazards of medical illness or accidental physical injury
enacted by the city or by any other governmental agency with the city having
authority for the enforcement thereof.
(Ord. 1-1-86, passed 1- -86)
OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS
§ 35.40 FINANCE DEPARTMENT.
   Subject to the legislative, executive, and administrative authority of the
City Commission and all other laws and regulations of any other governmental
agency having jurisdiction, and the budget of the city therefor, the function
of the Department of Finance established hereby shall be to provide the
following:
   (A)   The identification and analysis of all sources of revenue available to
the city; and the preparation of all ordinances, applications, contracts, or
other documents necessary therefor; and
   (B)   The development and maintenance of all accounting and financial
procedures and records which are either required by law or necessary for the
responsible fiscal operation and administration of the city, including but not
limited to the development and implementation of an annual budget therefor.
(Ord. 1-1-86, passed 1- -86)
§ 35.41 LAND USE PLANNING AND ZONING DEPARTMENT.
   Subject to the legislative, executive, and administrative authority of the
City Commission, all other laws and regulations of any other governmental
agency having jurisdiction, and the budget of the city therefor, the function
of the Land Use Planning and Zoning Department shall be to provide for:
   (A)   The preparation of a plan for the development and use of all land
within the city consistent with the requirements of all laws in regard thereto;
and the amendment thereof from time to time according to law, as the health,
benefit, and welfare of the citizens and residents of the city may require;
   (B)   The coordination of all agencies, offices, departments, and
commissions of the city and other governmental agencies with the activities,
goals, and objectives of the owners of land within the city in order to promote
and accomplish the development and use of such land according to the plan
described in division (A); and
   (C)   Subject to the authority of the City Commission, to administer all
ordinances, orders, regulations, and other laws in regard to the development
and use of land within the city and the construction and maintenance of
buildings and other structures thereon enacted by the city or any other
authorized governmental agency.
(Ord. 1-1-86, passed 1- -86)
§ 35.42 OFFICE ADMINISTRATION DEPARTMENT.
   Subject to the legislative, executive, and administrative authority of the
City Commission, all other laws and regulations of any other governmental
agency having jurisdiction, and the budget of the city therefor, the function
of the Office Administration Department shall be to provide the following:
   (A)   The maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city
and, in conjunction with this, to perform the duties of "Official Custodian" or
"Custodian" pursuant to Chapter 34 through the office of City Clerk/Tax
Collector;
   (B)   The clerical and secretarial services required by the City Commission
or other departments of the city for which no funds for such services have been
separately budgeted; and
   (C)   The civil administration and enforcement of all ordinances, orders,
and regulations of the city, the administration and enforcement of which are
not included in the function of any other department of the city pursuant to
the provisions hereof.
(Ord. 1-1-86, passed 1- -86)
Cross-reference:
   City Administrative Officer, §
31.38
§ 35.43 PARK AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Park and Recreation Department. Subject to the legislative, executive,
and administrative authority of the City Commission, all other laws and
regulations of any other governmental agency having jurisdiction, and the
budget of the city therefor, the function of the Parks and Recreation
Department shall be to provide public parks, playgrounds, recreational
programs, projects, and activities to the citizens and residents of the city
through the Park Board established by division (B) below. (Ord. 1-1-86, passed
1- -86)
   (B)   Park Board.
      (1)   Pursuant to the authority of KRS 97.550, there is hereby
established a Park Board to be known as the Taylor Mill Park Board consisting
of five members who shall each be at least 21 years of age and a resident of
the city for at least one year prior to the date of the appointment and who
shall each subscribe to the oath required by KRS 97.560.
      (2)   The terms of office of the members of the Park Board shall be for
two years and until their successors are appointed and qualified except that
three members of the first Board appointed hereby shall be appointed for terms
of only one year. The members of the Board shall not receive any salary for
their services.
      (3)   Pursuant to KRS 97.550, the Park Board shall be a corporation with
perpetual succession and may, in its corporate name, contract and be contracted
with, sue and be sued, have and use a corporate seal and alter and renew it at
pleasure.
      (4)   The members of the Park Board shall meet annually and choose a
President and a Secretary from among the members, each to serve for a term of
one year. The duties of such officers shall be the usual duties incumbent upon
such an office and such other duties as the Board prescribes. (KRS 97.570)
      (5)   The Park Board shall have responsibility for the care, management,
and control of all parks and playgrounds within the limits of the city, shall
lay out and improve them with walks, drives, roads, and trees, provide
appliances and equipment for playgrounds, and provide for the proper lighting
of the parks and playgrounds. (KRS 97.580)
      (6)   The Park Board shall keep a set of books showing the receipts and
expenditures of the Board. The books shall, at all times, be subject to
examination by the City Commission, either by themselves or by a certified
public accountant. The Park Board shall, each January, transmit to the City
Commission a full and detailed report and statement of the acts of the Board
for the preceding year, with a complete and itemized account of all receipts
and disbursements of money, and an itemized estimate of the money needed for
park and playground purposes. (KRS 97.600)
(Ord. 3-10-79, passed 10-11-79; Ord. 1-3-82, passed 3- -82)
§ 35.44 PUBLIC UTILITIES DEPARTMENT.
   Subject to the legislative, executive, and administrative authority of the
City Commission, all other laws and regulations of any other governmental
agency having jurisdiction, and the budget of the city therefor, the function
of the Public Utilities Department shall be to provide water distribution and
sewage collection services through the Taylor Mill Utilities Commission and the
Winston Park Water Commission established by previous ordinances of the city,
which shall continue to exist according to the provisions of such ordinances
with all of the authority, responsibility, and duties described therein.
(Ord. 1-1-86, passed 1- -86)
§ 35.45 PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT.
   Subject to the legislative, executive, and administrative authority of the
City Commission, all other laws and regulations of any other governmental
agency having jurisdiction, and the budget of the city therefor, the function
of the Department of Public Works shall be to provide for the maintenance and
repair of all land, property, buildings, and equipment owned or used by the
city and such public roads, easements, and ways within the city as have been
accepted for maintenance by the city.
(Ord. 1-1-86, passed 1- -86; Am. Ord. 110(05-14-97), passed 5-14-97)
CHAPTER 36: AD VALOREM TAXATION
Section
   
36.01   Use of county assessment
   
36.02   Levy of tax
   
36.03   Due date; delinquency penalty
   
36.04   Lien for delinquency
   
36.05   Disposition of funds
§ 36.01 USE OF COUNTY ASSESSMENT.
   The city hereby provides for the assessment of the value of all real and
personal property within the city, which is subject to taxation thereby, for
each fiscal year beginning on July 1, by the use of the last annual assessment
thereof by the Kenton County Property Valuation Administrator.
(Ord. 2-9-86, passed - -; Am. Ord. 121(9-5-97), passed 9-5-97; Am. Ord. 138(9-
9-98), passed 9-9-98; Am. Ord. 154(9-8-99), passed 9-8-99; Am. Ord. 162(9-13-
00), passed 9-13-00; Am. Ord. 179(9-12-01), passed 9-12-01; Am. Ord. 192(9-9-
02), passed 9-9-02; Am. Ord. 203(9-4-03), passed 9-4-03; Am. Ord. 216(9-7-04),
passed 9-7-04; Am. Ord. 228(10-12-05), passed 10-12-05; Am. Ord. 239(9-13-06),
passed 9-13-06; Am. Ord. 248(9-14-07), passed 9-14-07; Am. Ord. 258(9-10-08),
passed 9-10-08; Am. Ord. 268(10-19-09), passed 10-19-09; Am. Ord. 274(10-13-
10), passed 10-13-10; Am. Ord. 282(10-25-11), passed 10-25-11; Am. Ord. 286(10-
26-12), passed 10-26-12; Am. Ord. 294(10-09-2013), passed 10-9-13; Am. Ord. 302
(11-28-2014), passed 11-28-14; Am. Ord. 309(11-11-2015), passed 11-11-15; Am.
Ord. 3015 (11-09-2016), passed 11-9-16; Am. Ord. 327(11-8-2017), passed 11-8-
17; Am. Ord. 336(10-10-18), passed 10-10-18; Am. Ord. 350(09-11-19), passed 9-
11-19; Am. Ord. 362(09-14-2020), passed 9-14-20; Am. Ord. 371(09-08-2021),
passed 9-8-21; Am. Ord. 381(09-28-2022), passed 9-28-2022; Am. Ord. 390(09-28-
2023), passed 9-28-23; Am. Ord. 400(09-11-2024), passed 9-11-24)
§ 36.02 LEVY OF TAX.
   The following ad valorem taxes for the fiscal year beginning on July 1,
2024, and ending on June 30, 2025, are hereby levied, assessed and imposed by
and for the city, upon the following described property which is subject to
taxation within the city, and the owners thereof, jointly and severally:
   (A)   An ad valorem tax on real property, at the rate of $0.372 for each
$100 of the value thereof, as assessed pursuant to the terms and provisions
hereof; and
   (B)   An ad valorem tax on all personal property at the rate of $0.535 for
each $100 of the value thereof, as assessed pursuant to the terms and
provisions hereof.
(Ord. 2-9-86, passed - -; Am. Ord. 121(9-5-97), passed 9-5-97; Am. Ord. 138(9-
9-98), passed 9-9-98; Am. Ord. 154(9-8-99), passed 9-8-99; Am. Ord. 162(9-13-
00), passed 9-13-00; Am. Ord. 179(9-12-01), passed 9-12-01; Am. Ord. 192(9-9-
02), passed 9-9-02; Am. Ord. 203(9-4-03), passed 9-4-03; Am. Ord. 216(9-7-04),
passed 9-7-04; Am. Ord. 228(10-12-05), passed 10-12-05; Am. Ord. 239(9-13-06),
passed 9-13-06; Am. Ord. 248(9-14-07), passed 9-14-07; Am. Ord. 258(9-10-08),
passed 9-10-08; Am. Ord. 268(10-19-09), passed 10-19-09; Am. Ord. 274(10-13-
10), passed 10-13-10; Am. Ord. 282(10-25-11), passed 10-25-11; Am. Ord. 286(10-
26-12), passed 10-26-12; Am. Ord. 294(10-09-2013), passed 10-9-13; Am. Ord. 302
(11-28-2014), passed 11-28-14; Am. Ord. 309(11-11-2015), passed 11-11-15; Am.
Ord. 3015 (11-09-2016), passed 11-9-16; Am. Ord. 327(11-8-2017), passed 11-8-
17; Am. Ord. 336(10-10-18), passed 10-10-18; Am. Ord. 350(09-11-19), passed 9-
11-19; Am. Ord. 362(09-14-2020), passed 9-14-20; Am. Ord. 371(09-08-2021),
passed 9-8-21; Am. Ord. 381(09-28-2022), passed 9-28-2022; Am. Ord. 390(09-28-
2023), passed 9-28-23; Am. Ord. 400(09-11-2024), passed 9-11-24)
§ 36.03 DUE DATE; DELINQUENCY PENALTY.
   The taxes levied pursuant to the terms hereof shall be due and payable on
December 31, 2024, at the office of the City Clerk at 5225 Taylor Mill Road,
Taylor Mill, Kentucky. The taxes shall become delinquent on January 1, 2025;
and thereafter there shall be added thereto a penalty of 15% thereof, plus
interest thereon at the rate of 15% per annum from January 1, 2025, until paid,
plus the costs of collection, including without limitation, court costs and
attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 2-9-86, passed - -; Am. Ord. 121(9-5-97), passed 9-5-97; Am. Ord. 138(9-
9-98), passed 9-9-98; Am. Ord. 154(9-8-99), passed 9-8-99; Am. Ord. 162(9-13-
00), passed 9-13-00; Am. Ord. 179(9-12-01), passed 9-12-01; Am. Ord. 192(9-9-
02), passed 9-9-02; Am. Ord. 203(9-4-03), passed 9-4-03; Am. Ord. 216(9-7-04),
passed 9-7-04; Am. Ord. 228(10-12-05), passed 10-12-05; Am. Ord. 239(9-13-06),
passed 9-13-06; Am. Ord. 248(9-14-07), passed 9-14-07; Am. Ord. 258(9-10-08),
passed 9-10-08; Am. Ord. 268(10-19-09), passed 10-19-09; Am. Ord. 274(10-13-
10), passed 10-13-10; Am. Ord. 282(10-25-11), passed 10-25-11; Am. Ord. 286(10-
26-12), passed 10-26-12; Am. Ord. 294(10-09-2013), passed 10-9-13; Am. Ord. 302
(11-28-2014), passed 11-28-14; Am. Ord. 309(11-11-2015), passed 11-11-15; Am.
Ord. 3015 (11-09-2016), passed 11-9-16; Am. Ord. 327(11-8-2017), passed 11-8-
17; Am. Ord. 336(10-10-18), passed 10-10-18; Am. Ord. 350(09-11-19), passed 9-
11-19; Am. Ord. 362(09-14-2020), passed 9-14-20; Am. Ord. 371(09-08-2021),
passed 9-8-21; Am. Ord. 381(09-28-2022), passed 9-28-2022; Am. Ord. 390(09-28-
2023), passed 9-28-23; Am. Ord. 400(09-11-2024), passed 9-11-24)
§ 36.04 LIEN FOR DELINQUENCY.
   The city has a lien upon all of the property upon which ad valorem taxes are
hereby levied to secure the payment thereof, and all penalties, interest, fees,
commissions, charges and other expenses, including, without limitation, court
costs and attorney’s fees incurred by the reason of any delinquency in the
payment thereof and in the process of the collection thereof. Such lien has
priority over all other liens, obligations and liabilities to which the
property is subject.
(Ord. 2-9-86, passed - -; Am. Ord. 121(9-5-97), passed 9-5-97; Am. Ord. 138(9-
9-98), passed 9-9-98; Am. Ord. 154(9-8-99), passed 9-8-99; Am. Ord. 162(9-13-
00), passed 9-13-00; Am. Ord. 179(9-12-01), passed 9-12-01; Am. Ord. 192(9-9-
02), passed 9-9-02; Am. Ord. 203(9-4-03), passed 9-4-03; Am. Ord. 216(9-7-04),
passed 9-7-04; Am. Ord. 228(10-12-05), passed 10-12-05; Am. Ord. 239(9-13-06),
passed 9-13-06; Am. Ord. 248(9-14-07), passed 9-14-07; Am. Ord. 258(9-10-08),
passed 9-10-08; Am. Ord. 268(10-19-09), passed 10-19-09; Am. Ord. 274(10-13-
10), passed 10-13-10; Am. Ord. 282(10-25-11), passed 10-25-11; Am. Ord. 286(10-
26-12), passed 10-26-12; Am. Ord. 294(10-09-2013), passed 10-9-13; Am. Ord. 302
(11-28-2014), passed 11-28-14; Am. Ord. 309(11-11-2015), passed 11-11-15; Am.
Ord. 3015 (11-09-2016), passed 11-9-16; Am. Ord. 327(11-8-2017), passed 11-8-
17; Am. Ord. 336(10-10-18), passed 10-10-18; Am. Ord. 350(09-11-19), passed 9-
11-19; Am. Ord. 362(09-14-2020), passed 9-14-20; Am. Ord. 371(09-08-2021),
passed 9-8-21; Am. Ord. 381(09-28-2022), passed 9-28-2022; Am. Ord. 390(09-28-
2023), passed 9-28-23; Am. Ord. 400(09-11-2024), passed 9-11-24)
§ 36.05 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   The taxes levied and collected pursuant to the terms of this chapter shall
be deposited in the General Fund of the city, and appropriated and used for the
general operating expenses of the city for the current fiscal year.
(Ord. 2-9-86, passed - -; Am. Ord. 121(9-5-97), passed 9-5-97; Am. Ord. 138(9-
9-98), passed 9-9-98; Am. Ord. 154(9-8-99), passed 9-8-99; Am. Ord. 162(9-13-
00), passed 9-13-00; Am. Ord. 179(9-12-01), passed 9-12-01; Am. Ord. 192(9-9-
02), passed 9-9-02; Am. Ord. 203(9-4-03), passed 9-4-03; Am. Ord. 216(9-7-04),
passed 9-7-04; Am. Ord. 228(10-12-05), passed 10-12-05; Am. Ord. 239(9-13-06),
passed 9-13-06; Am. Ord. 248(9-14-07), passed 9-14-07; Am. Ord. 258(9-10-08),
passed 9-10-08; Am. Ord. 268(10-19-09), passed 10-19-09; Am. Ord. 274(10-13-
10), passed 10-13-10; Am. Ord. 282(10-25-11), passed 10-25-11; Am. Ord. 286(10-
26-12), passed 10-26-12; Am. Ord. 294(10-09-2013), passed 10-9-13; Am. Ord. 302
(11-28-2014), passed 11-28-14; Am. Ord. 309(11-11-2015), passed 11-11-15; Am.
Ord. 3015 (11-09-2016), passed 11-9-16; Am. Ord. 327(11-8-2017), passed 11-8-
17; Am. Ord. 336(10-10-18), passed 10-10-18; Am. Ord. 350(09-11-19), passed 9-
11-19; Am. Ord. 362(09-14-2020), passed 9-14-20; Am. Ord. 371(09-08-2021),
passed 9-8-21; Am. Ord. 381(09-28-2022), passed 9-28-2022; Am. Ord. 390(09-28-
2023), passed 9-28-23; Am. Ord. 400(09-11-2024), passed 9-11-24)
CHAPTER 37: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
37.01   Adoption by reference
   
37.02   Participation in retirement system authorized
§ 37.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The city hereby adopts personnel policies as prepared by the Northern
Kentucky Area Development District, by reference as if fully suet out herein. A
copy of the policies are on file in the office of the City Clerk/Tax Collector.
   (B)   A schedule of personnel policy amendments is set out in
T.S.O. VIII.
(Ord. 37(4-22-94), passed 4-22-92; Am. Ord. 136(6-17-98), passed 6-17-98)
§ 37.02 PARTICIPATION IN RETIREMENT SYSTEM AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The city is hereby authorized and directed to participate in the
County Employee Retirement System of Kentucky with hazardous duty coverage for
all eligible members of the police and fire departments. All eligible full time
officers and employees of the city are hereby authorized and directed to comply
with the statutory requirements of the County Employees Retirement System of
Kentucky.
   (B)   All employees of the city, whose duties require an average of one
hundred hours during each working month shall be considered as "regular full
time" employees for the purposes of the County Employee Retirement System,
except those other persons who are employed as "temporary," "part time" and
"seasonal" workers, as defined in KRS 78.510 (21) of the County Employee
Retirement Laws.
(Ord. 24(7-10-91), passed 7-10-91; Am. Ord. 25(8-14-91), passed 8-14-91)
CHAPTER 38: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PLAN
Section
   
38.01   Statement of policy
   
38.02   Dissemination of policy
   
38.03   Personnel actions
   
38.04   Workforce utilization
   
38.05   Responsibility for implementation
   
38.06   Evaluation and reports
§ 38.01 STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   The affirmative action policy of the city is to promote equal employment
opportunity; to prohibit discrimination in employment on account of race,
color, religion, national origin, sex, age, or disability status; and to bring
about a fair representation and utilization of females and minorities on all
levels of city employment.
('78 Code, 220.1, § I) (Res. 2-10-77, passed 10-13-77)
§ 38.02 DISSEMINATION OF POLICY.
   The city will advise all employees as well as applicants for employment of
this policy and will post it in a conspicuous place. The city will make known
to the public that employment opportunities are available on the basis of
individual ability and will encourage all persons who are employed by the city
to strive for advancement on that basis.
('78 Code, 220.1, § II) (Res. 2-10-77, passed 10-13-77)
§ 38.03 PERSONNEL ACTIONS.
   The city will actively recruit qualified or qualifiable persons among
females and minorities on a nondiscriminatory basis for all available job
openings at every level. Further, the city will ensure every employee equal
treatment in respect to terms and conditions of employment, job assignments,
compensation, access to training, and promotions.
('78 Code, 220.1, § III) (Res. 2-10-77, passed 10-13-77)
§ 38.04 WORKFORCE UTILIZATION.
   The city will analyze the utilization of females and minorities in its
workforce and compare it with the utilization by all employers in the county
according to the latest official census. The goal of the city is to bring about
comparable utilization in all categories within the next five years, and then
to maintain such comparable utilization.
('78 Code, 220.1, § IV) (Res. 2-10-77, passed 10-13-77)
§ 38.05 RESPONSIBILITY FOR IMPLEMENTATION.
   Under the general supervision of the City Commission, the authorized city
official shall be responsible for implementation of this chapter, including
maintenance of the workforce analysis and job roster and the hearing of
complaints of discrimination by any employees or prospective employees of the
city. Final appeals will be heard by the City Commission.
('78 Code, 220.1, § V) (Res. 2-10-77, passed 10-13-77)
§ 38.06 EVALUATION AND REPORTS.
   The person given responsibility for implementation of this chapter shall
examine its operation periodically and report the progress being made, together
with recommendations for improvements in the plan, to the City Commission at
least once every year.
('78 Code, 220.1, § VI) (Res. 2-10-77, passed 10-13-77)
CHAPTER 39: CODE OF ETHICS
General Provisions
   
39.01   Title
   
39.02   Findings
   
39.03   Purpose and authority
   
39.04   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
39.10   Conflicts of interests in general
   
39.11   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
39.12   Incompatible offices
   
39.13   Withdrawal from participation
   
39.14   Receipt of gifts
   
39.15   Use of city property, equipment and personnel
   
39.16   Nepotism prohibited
   
39.17   Representation of interests before city government
   
39.18   Misuse of confidential information
   
39.19   Political solicitation
   
39.20   Patronage
   
39.21   Outside employment
   
39.22   Post-employment restriction
   
39.23   Fees and honoraria
   
39.24   Endorsements
   
39.25   Complicity with or knowledge of others’ violations
   
39.26   Falsely impugning reputation
   
39.27   Meeting attendance
   
39.28   Social media
   
39.29   Email
Financial Disclosure
   
39.40   Who must file
   
39.41   When to file statements; amended statements
   
39.42   Form of the statement of financial interest
   
39.43   Control and maintenance of the statements of financial interests
   
39.44   Contents of the financial interest statement
   
39.45   Noncompliance with filing requirement
Enforcement
   
39.60   Ethics Board created
   
39.61   Training and education
   
39.62   Annual reports and annual review of ethics code
   
39.63   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
39.64   Notice of hearings
   
39.65   Hearing procedure
   
39.66   Appeals
   
39.67   Limitation of actions
   
39.68   Advisory opinions
   
39.69   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
 
   
39.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 39.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "City of Taylor Mill,
Kentucky, Code of Ethics."
(Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.02 FINDINGS.
   The city legislative body finds and declares that:
   (A)   Public office and employment of the city are public trusts.
   (B)   The vitality and stability of the city government depends upon the
public's confidence in the integrity of its elected and appointed officers and
employees. Whenever the public perceives a conflict between the private
interests and public duties of a city officer or employee, that confidence is
imperiled.
   (C)   The city government has a duty to provide its citizens with standards
by which they may determine whether public duties are being faithfully
performed, and to make its officers and employees aware of the standards which
the citizenry rightfully expects them to comply with while conducting their
public duties.
(Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.03 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of the city shall be clearly established, uniform in their
application and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees of the
city with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest
which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS 65.003 as enacted by the 1994 Kentucky General Assembly and any amendments
made subsequent to that date.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.003.
(Ord. 72(12-20-94), passed 12-20-94; Am. Ord. 165(10-25-00), passed 10-25-00;
Am. Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.04 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning:
   "BUSINESS." Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation, or any legal entity through which business is conducted for
profit.
   "CANDIDATE." Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city
office. An individual is a candidate when the individual files a notification
and declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration
of intent to be a write-in candidate with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State.
   "CITY." The City of Taylor Mill, Kentucky.
   "CITY AGENCY." Any board, commission, authority, non-stock corporation, or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by this city.
   "CITY BUSINESS." Any discussion of specific city issues that goes beyond
general information.
   "CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION." Information obtained in the course of holding
public office or employment, or as a contractor to the city, which is not
available to members of the public and which the officer or employee is not
authorized to disclose, except to designated individuals or bodies, including
written and non-written information. When such information is also available
through channels open to the public, officers and employees are not prohibited
from disclosing the availability of those channels.
   "CONSULTANT." An independent contractor or professional person, or entity
engaged by the city or advising a city officer, and in a position to influence
a city decision or action or have access to confidential information.
   "CUSTOMER" or "CLIENT."
      (1)   Any person or entity to which a person or entity has supplied goods
or services during the previous twenty-four (24) months, having a total value
greater than one thousand dollars ($1,000); or
      (2)   Any person or entity to which an officer or employee's outside
employer or business has supplied goods or services during the previous twenty-
four (24) months, having a total value greater than one thousand dollars
($1,000), but only if the officer or employee knows or has reason to know the
outside employer or business supplied the goods or services.
   "DOMESTIC PARTNER." An adult, unrelated by blood, with which an unmarried or
separated officer or employee has an exclusive committed relationship,
maintains a mutual residence, and shares basic living expenses.
   "EMPLOYEE." Any person, whether full-time or part-time, seasonal or
temporary, and whether paid or unpaid, who is employed by or provides service
to the city. The term "EMPLOYEE" shall not include any contractor or
subcontractor or any of their employees.
   "ETHICS BOARD" or "BOARD." The Northern Kentucky Regional Ethics Authority
and the Northern Kentucky Ethics Enforcement Committee which is vested by
interlocal cooperation agreement with the responsibility of enforcing the
requirements of the city's code of ethics.
   "FAMILY MEMBER." A spouse, domestic partner, parent, child, stepchild,
brother, stepbrother, sister, stepsister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-
law, daughter-in-law, grandparent or grandchild.
   "FINANCIAL BENEFIT." Includes any money, service, license, permit, contract,
authorization, loan, discount, travel, entertainment,
hospitality, gratuity, or any promise of any of these, or anything else of
value. This term does not include campaign contributions authorized by law.
   "FINANCIAL INTEREST." A relationship to something such that a direct or
indirect financial benefit has been, will be, or might be received as a result
of it.
   "HOUSEHOLD." Includes anyone whose primary residence is in the officer or
employee's home, including nonrelatives who are not rent payers or staff.
   "IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER." A spouse, domestic partner, a child or stepchild
who is not emancipated and who resides in the officer's or employee's
household, or a person claimed by the officer or employee, or the officer's or
employee's spouse or domestic partner, as a dependent for tax purposes.
   "OFFICER." Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   A legislative body member;
      (3)   The City Clerk;
      (4)   The City Treasurer;
      (5)   The City Administrator;
      (6)   The Police Chief;
      (7)   The Fire Chief;
      (8)   The Public Works Director;
      (9)   Any person who occupies a nonelected office created under KRS
83A.080; or
      (10)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency by the city.
   "OFFICIAL ACT." Any legislative, administrative, appointive or discretionary
act of any public official or employee of the city, or of any agency, board,
committee or commission thereof.
   "PERSONAL BENEFIT." Includes benefits other than those that are directly
financially advantageous. These include financial benefits to immediate family
members, business associates, as well as non-financial benefits to these people
and to oneself, including such things as reputation and the success of one's
career.
   "PERSONAL INTEREST." A relationship to something such that a personal
benefit has been, will be, or might be obtained by certain action or inaction
with respect to it.
   "SOCIAL MEDIA." Content created by individuals, using the internet. Examples
of social media include Facebook, blogs, Instagram, RSS, YouTube, Second Life,
Twitter, LinkedIn, and Flickr.
   "SUBORDINATE." Another official or employee over whose activities an
official or employee has direction, supervision or control.
   "SUBSTANTIAL DEBTOR OR CREDITOR." Any person or business owed more than ten
thousand dollars ($10,000), except from debts arising from the purchase of a
primary residence or the purchase of consumer goods which are bought or used
primarily for personal, familial or household purposes.
   "TRANSACTION." Any matter, including but not limited to, contracts, work or
business with the city, the sale or purchase of real estate by the city, and
any request for zoning amendments, variances, or special permits pending before
the city, upon which a public officer or employee performs an official act or
action.
(Ord. 72(12-20-94), passed 12-20-94; Am. Ord. 165(10-25-00), passed 10-25-00;
Am. Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 39.10 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN GENERAL.
   Every officer and employee of the city and every city agency shall comply
with the following standards of conduct:
   (A)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of any officer
or employee, shall have an interest in a business or engage in any business,
transaction or activity which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of the officer's or employee's public duties.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted (or unsolicited)
privileges or advantages for himself or herself or others.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or fail to take any
discretionary action, or agree to take or fail to take any discretionary
action, or influence or attempt to influence any other officer or employee to
take or fail to take any discretionary action, on any matter before the city in
order to obtain a personal or financial benefit for any of the following:
      (1)   The officer or employee.
      (2)   A family member.
      (3)   An outside employer.
      (4)   Any business in which the officer or employee, or any family member
has a financial interest, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   An outside employer or business of his or hers, or of his or her
family member, or someone who works for such outside employer or business;
         (b)   A customer or client; or
         (c)   A substantial debtor or creditor of his or hers, or of his or
her family member.
      (5)   Any business with which the officer or employee or any family
member is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or
professional relationship.
      (6)   A person or entity from whom the officer or employee has received
an election campaign contribution of a total of more than two hundred dollars
($200) during the past election cycle (this amount includes contributions from
a person's immediate family or business as well as contributions from an
entity's owners, directors, or officers, as well as contributions to the
officer or employee's party committee or noncandidate political committee).
      (7)   A nongovernmental civic group, social, charitable, or religious
organization of which he or she, or his or her immediate family member, is an
officer or director.
   (D)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
in this section if, by reason of the officer's or employee's participation,
vote, decision, action or inaction, no personal or financial benefit accrues to
the officer or employee, a family member, an outside employer, or a business as
defined in division (C)(4), (5) of this section, as a member of any business
occupation, profession, or other group, to any greater extent than any gain
could reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member of the business,
occupation, profession, or other group.
   (E)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected
by his or her participation, vote, decision or other action taken within the
scope of his or her public duties shall disclose the precise nature and value
of the interest, in writing, to the governing body of the city or city agency
served by the officer or employee, and the disclosure shall be entered on the
official record of the proceedings of the governing body. The officer or
employee shall refrain from taking any action with respect to the matter that
is the subject of the disclosure pursuant to § 39.13.
(Ord. 72(12-20-94), passed 12-20-94; Am. Ord. 165(10-25-00), passed 10-25-00;
Am. Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.11 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 61.252, no officer or employee of the city or any city
agency shall directly or through others undertake, execute, hold, or enjoy, in
whole or in part, any contract made, entered into, awarded, or granted by the
city or a city agency, except as follows:
      (1)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply to
contracts entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for city
office, before an appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency
office, or before an employee was hired by the city or a city agency. However,
if any contract entered into by a city or city agency officer or employee
before he or she became a candidate, was appointed to office, or was hired as
an employee, is renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes the
appointed office, or is hired as an employee, then the prohibition in division
(A) of this section shall apply to the renewal of the contract.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply if
the contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the
officer or employee is authorized to participate in establishing the contract
specifications, awarding the contract, or managing the contract performance
after the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any of the
authorities as set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or
employee shall have no interest in the contract, unless the requirements set
forth in division (A)(3) below are satisfied.
      (3)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply in
any case where the following requirements are satisfied:
         (a)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer's or employee's interest in the contract are publicly disclosed
at a meeting of the governing body of the city or city agency.
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
         (c)   A finding is made by the governing body of the city or city
agency that the contract with the officer or the employee is in the best
interests of the public and the city or city agency before the contract is
executed.
         (d)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor,
and upon conviction, the court may void any contract entered into in violation
of this section. Additionally, violation of this section shall be grounds for
removal from office or employment with the city in accordance with any
applicable provisions of state law and the ordinances, rules or regulations of
the city.
(Ord. 72(12-20-94), passed 12-20-94; Am. Ord. 165(10-25-00), passed 10-25-00;
Am. Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.12 INCOMPATIBLE OFFICES.
   (A)   Pursuant to Section 165 of the Kentucky Constitution, no officer or
employee of the city may also be a state officer, deputy state officer or
member of the General Assembly or may fill more than one (1) municipal office
at the same time, whether in the same or a different city.
   (B)   Pursuant to KRS 61.080, no city officer may also hold a county office.
In addition, the statute also states that the following city and consolidated
local government offices are incompatible with any other public office:
      (1)   Member of the legislative body of cities of the first class;
      (2)   Mayor and member of the legislative council of a consolidated local
government; and
      (3)   Mayor and member of the legislative body in cities of the home rule
class.
   (C)   In addition to the constitutional and statutory provisions, there are
common law incompatibilities that have been defined by the courts. City
officers and employment positions are deemed incompatible when one office or
position of employment is inherently inconsistent in function with the other,
when there arises an implication that the duties and responsibilities of both
cannot be performed at the same time with a necessary degree of impartiality
and honesty.
   (D)   KRS 61.090 provides that the acceptance of an incompatible office
operates to vacate the first office.
(Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.13 WITHDRAWAL FROM PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   An officer or employee must refrain from acting on or discussing,
formally or informally, a matter before the city, if acting on the matter, or
failing to act on the matter, may personally or financially benefit any of the
persons or entities listed in § 39.10(C) above. Such an officer or employee
should join the public if the withdrawal occurs at a public meeting or leave
the room if it is a legally conducted closed meeting (executive session) under
KRS 61.810 and KRS 61.815.
   (B)   Withdrawal at a meeting requires the public announcement, on the
record, of the reason for withdrawal.
   (C)   Ongoing conflict. An officer or employee whose outside employment or
other outside activity or relationship can reasonably be expected to require
more than sporadic withdrawal must resign or cease such outside employment or
activity. An officer or employee should not begin employment or an activity or
relationship that can reasonably be expected to require more than sporadic
withdrawal. If a prospective officer or employee is in such a situation, he or
she should not accept the position with the city.
   (D)   Request to withdraw. If an officer or appointed board member is
requested to withdraw from participation in a matter for the reason that he or
she has a conflict of interest, by:
      (1)   Another member;
      (2)   A party to the current matter; or
      (3)   Anyone else who may be affected by a decision relating to this
matter, the member must decide whether to withdraw on the official record. If
the member decides not to withdraw, the challenging member(s) may file a
complaint with the Ethics Board.
(Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.14 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   (A)   No officer, employee or appointee of the city shall, directly or
indirectly, solicit any gift or accept or receive any gift having a value of
seventy-five dollars ($75) or more, whether in the form of money, service,
loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, promise or any other form, under
circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred that the gift was
intended to influence, or could reasonably be expected to influence the
officer, employee or appointee in the performance of his or her official
duties, or was intended as a reward for any official action.
   (B)   Certain items are typically excluded from the prohibition. Examples of
these items include:
      (1)   Gifts received from relatives.
      (2)   Gifts accepted on behalf of the city and transferred to the city.
      (3)   Reasonable travel and travel-related expenses, cost of admission,
food and beverages, and entertainment furnished in connection with certain
specified public events, appearances, ceremonies, economic development
activities, or fact-finding trips related to official government business.
      (4)   Usual and customary loans made in the ordinary course of business.
      (5)   Awards, including certificates, plaques, and commemorative tokens
presented in recognition of public service.
      (6)   Informational, promotional, and educational items.
(Ord. 72(12-20-94), passed 12-20-94); Am. Ord. 165(10-25-00), passed 10-25-00;
Am. Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.15 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any city
time, funds, personnel, equipment or other personal or real property for the
private use of any person, unless the use is available to the general public,
and then only to the extent and upon the terms that it is available to the
general public.
(Ord. 73(2-8-95), passed 2-8-95; Am. Ord. 165(10-25-00), passed 10-25-00; Am.
Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.16 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No family member of any elected or appointed city officer or city
employee shall be appointed to any office or hired as an employee of the city.
   (B)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior the
effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 72(12-20-94), passed 12-20-94; Am. Ord. 165(10-25-00), passed 10-25-00;
Am. Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.17 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall represent
any person, group or business, other than the city, in connection with any
cause, proceeding, application or other matter pending before the city or any
city agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matters concerning his or her own interests.
   (C)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward
or other thing of value is promised to, given to, or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(Ord. 72(12-20-94), passed 12-20-94; Am. Ord. 165(10-25-00), passed 10-25-00;
Am. Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.18 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall intentionally
use or disclose information acquired in the course of his or her official
duties, if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further his or
her personal or financial interest or that of another person or business.
Information shall be deemed confidential if it is not subject to disclosure
pursuant to the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 to 61.884, at the time of
its use or disclosure.
(Ord. 72(12-20-94), passed 12-20-94; Am. Ord. 165(10-25-00), passed 10-25-00;
Am. Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.19 POLITICAL SOLICITATION.
   (A)   An officer, employee, or municipal candidate may not request, or
authorize anyone else to request, that any subordinate or potential future
subordinate participate, or not participate, in any political activity,
including the making of a campaign contribution.
   (B)   An officer, employee, or municipal candidate may not engage in any
political activity for the city, while on duty, or in uniform, using city
funds, supplies, vehicles, or facilities, in uniform, or during any period of
time during which he or she is normally expected to perform services for the
city, for which compensation is paid.
(Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.20 PATRONAGE.
   No officer or employee may promise an appointment or the use of his or her
influence to obtain an appointment to any position as a reward for any
political activity or contribution.
(Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.21 OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   An officer or employee shall not accept any employment or enter into
any contracts that result in a conflict of interest with his or her duties as
an officer or employee of the city.
   (B)   An employee of the city may be self-employed or may take occasional or
part-time jobs if, in the opinion of his or her supervisor and the City
Administrative Officer, there is no conflict with working hours, the employee's
efficiency in his or her city work, or other interest of the city.
   (C)   Employees wishing to take off-duty employment shall have the written
approval of their supervisor and the City Administrative Officer.
   (D)   Employees or officers holding management level positions shall notify
the City Administrative Officer, prior to creating, contracting with, or being
employed by any agency or business firm other than the city, for their written
approval.
   (E)   City employment shall remain the first priority and if at any time the
outside employment interferes with an employee's job requirements or
performance for the city, the employee shall be required to modify the
conditions of the outside employment, or terminate either the off-duty
employment or his or her city employment.
(Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.22 POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTION.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall appear
before the city or any city agency or receive compensation for services
rendered on behalf of any person in relation to any particular matter with
respect to any matter on which the officer or employee personally worked while
in the service of the city or city agency for a period of one (1) year after
the termination of the officer's or employee's service with the city or city
agency.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall make,
participate in making, or use his or her official position to influence a
decision involving the interests of a person with whom he or she is seeking,
negotiating, or securing an agreement concerning future employment.
   (C)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall disclose
or use, without appropriate authorization, any confidential information
acquired in the course of his or her official duties.
(Ord. 165(10-25-00), passed 10-25-00; Am. Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.23 FEES AND HONORARIA.
   (A)   An officer or employee shall not accept any compensation or honorarium
in consideration for an appearance, speech, or article unless the appearance,
speech or article is both related to the officer's or employee's employment or
activities outside of municipal service and is unrelated to the officer's or
employee's service with the city.
   (B)   This section shall not preclude an officer or an employee from
obtaining reasonable travel and travel-related expenses.
(Ord. 72(12-20-94), passed 12-20-94; Am. Ord. 165(10-25-00), passed 10-25-00;
Am. Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.24 ENDORSEMENTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee in his or her official capacity may publicly
endorse products or services for his or her own personal or financial interest,
or for his or her family member's personal or financial interest.
   (B)   However, this does not prohibit an officer or employee from answering
inquiries by other governmental officials, consumer organizations, or product
information services regarding products or services.
(Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.25 COMPLICITY WITH OR KNOWLEDGE OF OTHERS' VIOLATIONS.
   No officer or employee may, directly or indirectly, induce, encourage, or
aid anyone to violate any provision of this code. If an officer or employee
knows or has reasonable suspicion to believe that someone has violated this
code, he or she is required to report it to the Ethics Board pursuant to §
39.67.
(Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.26 FALSELY IMPUGNING REPUTATION.
   An officer or employee may not falsely impugn the reputation of a city
resident, employee or another officer of the city. If an officer or employee
believes his or her accusation to be true, and then learns that it was false,
even in part, he or she should apologize in the same forum the accusations were
made. A failure to apologize within a reasonable period of time after learning
of the falseness of the accusations will create the presumption that the
conduct was fully intentional.
(Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.27 MEETING ATTENDANCE.
   All elected city officers and members of city boards and commissions are
expected to attend their meetings. It is a violation of this code to miss more
than one-third () of the meetings in a twelve (12) month period.
(Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.28 SOCIAL MEDIA.
   (A)   City officials (including members of boards, commissions, etc.) can
maintain a personal presence on social media. However, to be considered
personal, there can be no mention of their status as a city official. Any
mention of their status as a city official potentially changes the nature of
the page, requiring record keeping in accordance with the Kentucky Department
of Library and Archives retention schedule and subjecting the entire page to
open records requests.
   (B)   Elected city officials who want to interact with the community on
social media in their role as city official are required to maintain a separate
account. City officials will notify the City Clerk of any official page(s)
utilized. The City Clerk will maintain an updated list of official pages of
city officials.
   (C)   City officials shall conduct themselves professionally and as a
representative of the city.
   (D)   An example of appropriate guidelines to be posted. In regard to
comments placed on the social media site, the following guidelines are in
force:
      (1)   As a public entity the city must abide by certain standards to
serve all its constituents in a civil and unbiased manner.
      (2)   The city's social media sites prohibit the posting of content and/
or comments containing any of the following:
         (a)   Comments not topically related to the particular site or blog
article being commented upon;
         (b)   Profane language or content;
         (c)   Content that promotes, fosters or perpetuates discrimination on
the basis of race, creed, color, age, religion, gender, marital status, status
with regard to public assistance, national origin, physical or mental
disability or sexual orientation;
         (d)   Sexual content or links to sexual content;
         (e)   Advertisements, solicitations, phishing;
         (f)   Conduct or encouragement of illegal activity;
         (g)   Information that may tend to compromise the safety or security
of the public;
         (h)   Campaign ads or related content advocating for or against a
candidate for office;
         (i)   Comments unrelated to a topic or post as well as multiple off-
topic posts or spam by a single person; or
         (j)   Content that violates a legal ownership interest of any other
party.
   (E)   No comments shall be deleted unless in violation of posted guidelines.
Deleted comments shall be provided to the City Clerk and must be saved for one
(1) year.
   (F)   City officials shall not conduct city business through their social
media sites. If receiving a specific request from a citizen, the city official
shall state: "Thank you for your question. Please email me at [official email
address] or contact me at [phone number]. I look forward to speaking with you."
   (G)   Elected officials shall not discuss issues pending before the city
legislative body. Elected officials may elicit public input but shall not
respond to comments. Engaging in substantive conversations on social media
could require retention of the posts and may violate the Open Meetings Act if
other elected officials are also engaging in the discussion.
   (H)   City employees are bound by the city's social media policies in the
city employee handbook.
(Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.29 EMAIL.
   (A)   City officials shall maintain an official email address and shall
provide the email address to the City Clerk. This must be separate from their
personal email account.
   (B)   No city business shall occur through a personal email account.
   (C)   City officials shall retain emails according to the Kentucky
Department of Library and Archives schedule for emails. City officials shall
direct any record-keeping questions to the City Clerk.
(Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 39.40 WHO MUST FILE.
   The following classes of officers and employees of the city and city
agencies shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the Ethics
Board:
   (A)   Elected city officers.
   (B)   Candidates for elected office.
   (C)   Officers and employees who hold policymaking positions, including
members of municipal boards, such as ethics boards, planning and zoning boards,
boards of adjustment, code enforcement boards, economic development boards, and
parks and recreation boards.
   (D)   Officers or employees whose job descriptions or whose actual duties
involve:
      (1)   The negotiation, authorization, or approval of contracts, leases,
franchises, revocable consents, concessions, variances, special permits, or
licenses;
      (2)   The purchase, sale, rental, or lease of real property, personal
property, or services, or a contract for any of these; and
      (3)   The obtaining of grants of money or loans.
(Ord. 72(12-20-94), passed 12-20-94; Am. Ord. 96(9-25-96), passed 9-25-96; Am.
Ord. 104(01-22-97), passed 1-22-97; Am. Ord. 165(10-25-00), passed 10-25-00;
Am. Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.41 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this section
shall be filed with the Ethics Board, or the administrative official designated
as the custodian of its records by the Ethics Board on the schedule as
prescribed by the Board.
      (1)   An officer or employee newly appointed to fill an office or
position of employment with the city or a city agency shall file his or her
initial statement no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the
appointment.
      (2)   A candidate for city office shall file his or her initial statement
no later than thirty (30) days after the date on which the person becomes a
candidate for elected office.
   (B)   The Ethics Board may grant a reasonable extension of time for filing a
statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board, the officer or
employee shall, no later than thirty (30) days after becoming aware of the
material change, file an amended statement with the Board.
   (D)   Annually, the Ethics Board must review all annual financial disclosure
statements filed with it to determine whether any person required to file such
a statement has failed to file it, has filed a deficient statement, or has
filed a statement that reveals a possible or potential violation of this code.
If the Board determines that an annual or transactional disclosure statement is
deficient or reveals a possible or potential violation of this code, the Board
will notify the person in writing of the deficiency or possible or potential
violation, and of the penalties for failure to comply with this code.
(Ord. 72(12-20-94), passed 12-20-94; Am. Ord. 96(9-25-96), passed 9-25-96; Am.
Ord. 104(01-22-97), passed 1-22-97; Am. Ord. 165(10-25-00), passed 10-25-00;
Am. Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.42 FORM OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTEREST.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form
prescribed by the Ethics Board, or the administrative official designated by
the Ethics Board.
   (B)   The Ethics Board, along with the City Clerk, will annually review the
list of officials and employees required to file annual disclosure statements,
to determine whether the lists are complete and accurate. Within ninety (90)
days after it has been formed, and by February 1 each year thereafter, the
Ethics Board, along with the City Clerk, must create a list of the names and
offices, or positions, of all officials and employees and others required to
file annual disclosure statements pursuant to § 39.40; and notify all such
persons of their obligation to file an annual disclosure statement.
   (C)   The Board, or the designated administrative official, shall deliver a
copy of the form to each officer and employee required to file the statement,
by first class mail, email or hand delivery, annually on a date prescribed by
the Board.
   (D)   The failure of the Board, or the designated administrative official,
to deliver a copy of the form to any officer or employee shall not relieve the
officer or employee of the obligation to file the statement.
(Ord. 72(12-20-94), passed 12-20-94; Am. Ord. 165(10-25-00), passed 10-25-00;
Am. Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.43 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF THE STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The Ethics Board shall be the "official custodian" of the statements
of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance of the
statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests shall
be maintained by the Board, or the administrative official designated by the
Board as the "custodian" of public documents, available for public inspection
immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the Board or
the designated administrative official pursuant to the Kentucky Department of
Libraries and Archives schedule as follows:
      (1)   Upon the expiration of two (2) years after a person ceases to be an
officer or employee of the city or a city agency, the Board shall cause to be
destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those statements
filed by the person.
      (2)   Upon the expiration of two (2) years after any election at which a
candidate for elected city office was not elected or nominated, the Board shall
cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those
statements filed by the person.
(Ord. 72(12-20-94), passed 12-20-94; Am. Ord. 165(10-25-00), passed 10-25-00;
Am. Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.44 CONTENTS OF THE FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number, and
home address of the filer;
      (2)   The title of the filer's office, office sought, or position of
employment;
      (3)   The occupation of the filer and the filer's spouse or domestic
partner;
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer and
the filer's immediate family members exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000)
during the preceding calendar year, and the nature of the income (e.g., salary,
commission, dividends, retirement fund distribution, etc.);
      (5)   The name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer or any member of the filer's immediate family had at any time
during the preceding calendar year an interest of ten thousand dollars
($10,000) at fair market value or five percent (5%) ownership interest or more;
      (6)   The name and address of any business located outside of the state,
if the business has engaged in any business transactions with the city during
the past three (3) years, or which is anticipated to engage in any business
transactions with the city, in which the filer or any member of the filer's
immediate family had at any time during the preceding calendar year an interest
of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) at fair market value or five percent (5%)
ownership interest or more;
      (7)   A designation as commercial, residential, or rural, and the
location of all real property within the county, other than the filer's primary
residence, in which the filer or any member of the filer's immediate family had
during the preceding calendar year an interest often thousand dollars ($10,000)
or more;
      (8)   Each source by name and address of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of two hundred dollars ($200) or more from any
single source, excluding gifts received from family members, received by the
filer or any member of the filer's immediate family during the preceding
calendar year;
      (9)   Each source by name and address of campaign contributions having an
aggregate fair market value of two hundred dollars ($200) or more from any
single source, excluding contributions received from family members, during the
preceding calendar year;
      (10)   The name and address of any substantial debtor or creditor owed
more than ten thousand dollars ($10,000), except debts arising from the
purchase of a primary residence or the purchase of consumer goods bought or
used primarily for personal, familial or household purposes.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts, nor the names of individual
clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income.
(Ord. 72(12-20-94), passed 12-20-94; Am. Ord. 165(10-25-00), passed 10-25-00;
Am. Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.45 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Ethics Board, or the designated administrative official, shall
notify by certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial
interests who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete
statement, or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed by the
Board. The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall
establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied, and
shall advise the person of the penalties for a violation.
   (B)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who fails or
refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice under
division (A) within the time established in the notice shall be guilty of a
civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed by the Board in an
amount not to exceed twenty-five dollars ($25) per day, up to a maximum civil
fine of five hundred dollars ($500). Any civil fine imposed by the Board under
this section may be recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of
debt if the offender fails or refuses to pay the penalty within a prescribed
period of time.
   (C)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial interests
which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally omits
required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 72(12-20-94), passed 12-20-94; Am. Ord. 165(10-25-00), passed 10-25-00;
Am. Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 39.60 ETHICS BOARD CREATED.
   Attached to Ordinance 355 and incorporated herein by reference is an
interlocal cooperation agreement authorized by KRS 65.210 et seq., which the
Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to sign on behalf of the city. The
provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the Northern Kentucky Regional
Ethics Authority and the Northern Kentucky Ethics Enforcement Committee
according to the provisions thereof.
(Ord. 72(12-20-94), passed 12-20-94; Am. (10-25-00), passed 10-25-00; Am. Ord.
355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.61 TRAINING AND EDUCATION.
   (A)   The Ethics Board will, within one (1) year after its passage, make
this code, and explanations of its provisions (including information on how to
fill out all forms and statements), available (including, but not limited to,
on the city website) to all officials and employees, candidates, and to
municipal residents, and will develop educational materials and a required
educational program for the officials and employees of the city regarding the
provisions of this code. The educational program must begin within eighteen
(18) months after this code goes into effect.
   (B)   In addition, the Ethics Board will attempt to hold annual workshops
for new and experienced officials and employees to discuss this code, its
values and goals, its enforcement, and the ways in which it has affected their
work and the working of the city government.
(Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.62 ANNUAL REPORTS AND ANNUAL REVIEW OF ETHICS CODE.
   (A)   The Ethics Board must prepare and submit an annual report to the
legislative body, summarizing the activities, decisions, and advisory opinions
of the Board. The report may also recommend changes to the text or
administration of this code. The report must be submitted no later than October
31 of each year, covering to the year ended August 31, and must be filed with
the City Clerk and made available on the city website.
   (B)   The Ethics Board will periodically (no less than every five (5) years)
review this code, its enforcement, and the Board's rules, regulations, and
administrative procedures to determine whether they promote integrity, public
confidence, and participation in city government, and whether they set forth
clear and enforceable, common sense standards of conduct.
(Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.63 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Ethics Board, or the administrative official
designated by the Ethics Board. All complaints shall be in writing, signed by
the complainant, and shall meet any other requirements established by the
Board. The Board shall acknowledge receipt of a complaint to the complainant
within ten (10) working days of the date of its receipt. Within ten (10)
working days, the Board shall forward to each officer or employee of the city
or city
agency who is the subject of the complaint, a copy of the complaint and a
general statement of the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Ethics Board may, on its own initiative, determine through an
inquiry into informal allegations or information provided directly to the
Board, by referral, in the public news media or otherwise, that a violation of
this code may exist and prepare a complaint of its own. The Ethics Board may
also amend a complaint that has been filed with it by adding further
allegations, by adding respondents involved in the same conduct, directly or
indirectly, by action or inaction, or by deleting allegations that would not
constitute a violation of this code, have been made against persons or entities
not covered by this code, or do not appear to be supported by the facts. The
Ethics Board may also consolidate complaints where the allegations are
materially related. Amended complaints must be sent to the complainant and
respondent by the Ethics Board.
   (C)   Within thirty (30) days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the
Ethics Board shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations
contained in the complaint. The Board shall afford a person who is the subject
of the complaint an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the complaint.
The person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to appear and be
heard under oath, and to offer evidence in response to the allegations.
   (D)   The person who is the subject of the complaint (respondent) may file
with the Ethics Board a response to the complaint within thirty (30) days after
his or her receipt of the complaint. The response, if any, must be sent to the
person filing the original complaint (complainant) by the Ethics Board within
five (5) days after its filing. Within fifteen (15) days after receipt, the
complainant may also file with the Ethics Board a response to the respondent's
response, which the Ethics Board must send to the respondent within five (5)
days after its filing.
   (E)   Extensions of time to any of the time limitations specified in this
section may be granted by the Ethics Board upon a vote of the majority of the
members. If no meeting can be held before such time limit runs out, the chair
may extend the time frame until the following meeting. The Ethics Board must
give written notice of any extension(s) of time to the respondent and the
complainant.
   (F)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Ethics Board shall be confidential until a final determination
is made by the Board, except:
      (1)   The Board may turn over to the commonwealth's attorney or County
Attorney evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings.
      (2)   If the complainant or alleged violator publicly discloses the
existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Board may publicly confirm the
existence of the inquiry, and, at its discretion, make public any documents
issued to either party.
   Based on its preliminary inquiry, the Board shall make a determination
whether the complaint is within its jurisdiction and, if so, whether it alleges
a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation of this chapter. If the Board
concludes that the complaint is outside of its jurisdiction, frivolous or
without factual basis, the Board shall immediately terminate the inquiry,
reduce the conclusion to writing, and transmit a copy of its decision to the
complainant and to all officers or employees against whom the complaint was
filed.
   (G)   If, based upon its preliminary inquiry, the Ethics Board concludes
that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations
sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Board shall notify the officer or employee who is the subject of the complaint,
and may initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation.
   (I)   If a complaint is accepted or prepared pursuant to division (A), the
Ethics Board must conduct an investigation. From this point on, the complainant
may not withdraw his or her complaint, although he or she may request that the
Ethics Board either make a finding of no probable cause or no violation.
   (J)   In conducting an investigation, the Ethics Board may administer oaths
or affirmations, subpoena witnesses, compel their attendance, and require the
production of any books or records it deems relevant and material. The Police
Department and all city agencies, bodies, officials, and employees are required
to respond fully and truthfully to all inquiries and cooperate with all
requests of the Ethics Board or its agents relating to an investigation. It is
a violation of this code for any official or employee to deny access to
information requested by the Ethics Board in the course of an investigation or
a public hearing, except to the extent that such denial is required by federal,
state, or local law.
   (K)   Nothing in this section may be construed to permit the Ethics Board to
conduct an investigation of itself or of any of its members or staff. If the
Ethics Board receives a complaint alleging that the Board or any of its members
or staff have violated any provision of this code, or any other law, the Board
must promptly transmit to the City Administrative Officer a copy of the
complaint.
   (L)   Any person who knowingly files with the Board a false complaint
alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter by an officer or employee
of the city or any city agency shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.64 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   If the Ethics Board determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, the Board shall issue an order setting
the matter for a hearing within thirty (30) days of the date the order is
issued, unless the alleged violator petitions for and the Board consents to a
later date. The order setting the matter for hearing, along with a copy of any
pertinent regulations of the Board relating to the hearing shall be sent to the
alleged violator within twenty-four (24) hours of the time the order setting a
hearing is issued.
(Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.65 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure and the Kentucky Rules of
Evidence shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Ethics Board; however,
the hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in
accordance with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Board so as
to afford all parties the full range of due process rights required by the
nature of the proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the respondent, or his or
her representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Board in connection with the
matter to be heard. The Board shall inform the alleged violator, or his or her
representative, of any exculpatory evidence in its possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a Board hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to call
and examine witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross-examine witnesses, to
submit evidence, and to be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have the
right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Board, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (E)   All hearings of the Ethics Board shall be public, unless the members
vote to go into executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810.
   (F)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Ethics Board shall, as soon
as practicable, begin deliberations in executive session for the purpose of
reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether a violation
of this chapter has been proven. Within thirty (30) days after completion of
the hearing, the Board shall issue a written report of its findings and
conclusions.
   (G)   If the Board concludes in its report that no violation of this chapter
has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this determination to
the officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint and to the party
who filed the complaint.
   (H)   If the Board concludes in its report that, in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing, there is clear and convincing proof of a
violation of this chapter, the Board shall within fifteen (15) days:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation.
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the City Administrative Officer and the City
Commission with which the violator serves.
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the City Administrative Officer and the
City Commission that the violator be sanctioned as recommended by the Board,
which may include a recommendation for discipline or dismissal, or removal from
office.
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000).
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this chapter or state laws
to the County Attorney or Commonwealth Attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
(Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.66 APPEALS.
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the Ethics Board may appeal the finding to the circuit court of the
county, within thirty (30) days after the date of the final action by the
Ethics Board, by filing a petition with the court against the Board. The Board
shall transmit to the clerk of the court all evidence considered by the Board
at the public hearing.
(Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.67 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one (1) year
after the violation is discovered.
(Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.68 ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A)   The Ethics Board may render advisory opinions concerning matters under
its jurisdiction, based upon real or hypothetical facts and circumstances, upon
its own initiative, or when requested by any officer or employee of the city or
a city agency who is covered by this chapter.
   (B)   An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions. The request for an advisory opinion
shall remain confidential unless confidentiality is waived, in writing, by the
requestor.
   (C)   The Board may adopt regulations, consistent with the Kentucky Open
Records Law, to establish criteria under which it will issue confidential
advisory opinions. All other advisory opinions shall be public documents,
except that before an advisory opinion is made public, it shall be redacted so
that the identity of any person associated with the opinion shall not be
revealed.
   (D)   The confidentiality of an advisory opinion may be waived either:
      (1)   In writing by the person who requested the opinion.
      (2)   By majority vote of the members of the Board, if a person makes or
purports to make public the substance or any portion of an advisory opinion
requested by or on behalf of the person. The Board may vote to make public the
advisory opinion request and related materials.
   (E)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be binding on the
Board in any subsequent proceeding concerning the facts and circumstances of
the particular case if no intervening facts or circumstances arise which would
change the opinion of the Board if they had existed at the time the opinion was
rendered. However, if any fact determined by the Board to be material was
omitted or misstated in the request for an opinion, the Board shall not be
bound by the opinion.
   (F)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be admissible in
the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil proceeding for violations of
this chapter for actions taken in reliance on that opinion.
   (G)   Advisory opinions will be indexed and maintained on file by the Ethics
Board and the City Clerk, and will also be available on the city website, with
unnecessary financial and personal details redacted. Officers, employees, and
businesses should be notified about advisory opinions that may directly affect
their conduct.
(Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.69 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall subject to
reprisal or directly or indirectly use, or threaten to use, any official
authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage,
restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce,
or discriminate against any person who in good faith reports, discloses,
divulges, or otherwise brings to the attention of the Ethics Board or any other
agency or official of the city or the commonwealth any facts or information
relative to an actual or suspected violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting disciplinary or
punitive action if an officer or employee of the city or any city agency
discloses information which he knows:
      (1)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity;
      (2)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of the
Kentucky Open Act, KRS 61.870 to 61.884;
      (3)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Ord. 72(12-20-94), passed 12-20-94; Am. Ord. 165(10-25-00), passed 10-25-00;
Am. Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 39.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this chapter
or by state or federal law, any officer or employee of the city or any city
agency who is found by the Ethics Board to have violated any provision of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a civil offense, and may be subject to a
civil fine imposed by the Ethics Board not to exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000), which may be recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of
debt if the offender fails to pay the penalty within a prescribed period of
time.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by
the Ethics Board to have violated any provision of this chapter shall forfeit
to the city or the city agency an amount equal to the economic benefit or gain
which the officer or employee is determined by the Board to have realized as a
result of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be recovered by the
city in a civil action in the nature of debt, if the offender fails to pay the
amount of the forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Ethics Board that an officer or employee of the city
or any city agency is guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be sufficient
cause for removal, suspension, demotion, or other disciplinary action by the
City Commission. Any action to remove or discipline any officer or employee for
a violation of this chapter shall be taken in accordance with all applicable
ordinances and regulations of the city and all applicable laws of the
commonwealth.
(Ord. 72(12-20-94), passed 12-20-94; Am. Ord. 165(10-25-00), passed 10-25-00;
Am. Ord. 355(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
CHAPTER 40: USE OF EMERGENCY MEDICAL AND TRANSPORTATION SERVICES
Section
   
40.01   Imposition of EMS fees
   
40.02   Collection and use of EMS fees
§ 40.01 IMPOSITION OF EMS FEES.
   The following rates and charges for emergency medical or transportation
services shall apply to the services operated by the city, with such listed
rates being increased by 5% on the first day of January of each successive year
beginning January 1, 2024.
   (A)   Basic life support: non-emergency (per patient, per trip). $795 for
response, evaluation, and transport. BLS services include those as defined in
the National EMS Education and Practice Blueprint. These services include care
provided by certified or licensed emergency medical personnel at the EMT-
B level where the response is not initiated as an emergency.
   (B)   Basic life support: emergency (per patient, per trip). $958 for
response, evaluation, and transport. BLS-Emergency Services include those
defined in the National RMS Education and Practice Blueprint. These services
include care provided by certified or licensed emergency medical personnel at
the EMT-B level or higher where the response is initiated as an emergency.
   (C)   Advanced life support: non-emergency (per patient, per trip). $995 for
response, evaluation, and transport. ALS services include those defined in the
National EMS Education and Practice Blueprint. These services include
assessment and care provided by certified or licensed emergency medical
personnel at the paramedic level where the response is not initiated as an
emergency.
   (D)   Advanced life support: level 1 emergency (per patient, per trip).
$1,295 for response, evaluation, and transport. ALS-Level 1 Emergency services
include those defined in the National EMS Educational and Practice Blueprint.
These services include an assessment by certified or licensed emergency medical
personnel at the paramedic level and the furnishing of one or more ALS
interventions where the response is initiated as an emergency.
   (E)   Advanced life support: level 2 emergency (per patient, per trip).
$1,495 for response, evaluation, and transport. ALS-Level 2 services include
those as defined in the National EMS Education and Practice Blueprint. These
services included assessment by certified or licensed emergency medical
personnel at the paramedic level and the administration of at least three
different and/or the provision of one or more of the following ALS procedures:
      (1)   Manual defibrillation/cardioversion;
      (2)   Endotracheal intubation;
      (3)   Central venous line;
      (4)   Cardiac pacing;
      (5)   Chest decompression;
      (6)   Surgical airway;
      (7)   Intraosseous line.
   (F)   Special care transport (SCT) (per patient, per trip). $1,595 for
response, evaluation, and transport. Specialty Care Transport services include
those as defined in the National EMS Education and Practice Blueprint.
Hospital-to-hospital transportation of a critically injured or ill beneficiary
by a ground ambulance vehicle, including the provision of medically necessary
supplies and services, at a level of service beyond the scope of the EMT-
paramedic. SCT is necessary when a beneficiary’s condition requires ongoing
care that must be furnished by one or more health professionals in an
appropriate specialty area, for example, emergency or critical care nursing,
emergency medicine, respiratory care, cardiovascular care, or a paramedic with
additional training.
   (G)   The city shall collect a fee of $17.50 per mile of patient
transportation furnished by the emergency medical treatment unit of the city
fire and emergency services.
CITY FIRE DEPARTMENT AND EMS 2023 RATE SCHEDULE
HCPCS CODE CHARGE DESCRIPTION UNIT PRICE
CITY FIRE DEPARTMENT AND EMS 2023 RATE SCHEDULE
HCPCS CODE CHARGE DESCRIPTION                           UNIT PRICE
A0425      Mileage                                      $17.95
A0428      Base rate, BLS (non-emergent)                $795
A0429      Base rate, BLS (E-response)                  $958
A0426      Base rate, ALS 1 (non-emergent)              $995
A0427      Base rate, ALS 1 (E-response)                $1,295
A0433      Base rate, ALS 2                             $1,495
A0434      Base rate, specialty care                    $1,595
A0998      BLS/ALS 1, no transport (treatment in place) $395
          ALS 2, no transport                          $495
 
   (H)   Five refusals of service in any one calendar year shall cause a $100
nuisance fee.
(Ord. 223(6-8-05), passed 6-8-05; Am. Ord. 265(4-8-09), passed 4-8-09; Am. Ord.
272(08-11-10), passed 8-11-10; Am. Ord. 297(06-11-2014), passed 6-11-14; Am.
Ord. 373(11-10-2021), passed 11-10-21; Am. Ord. 388(06-28-23), passed 6-28-23)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 40.02 COLLECTION AND USE OF EMS FEES.
   The city shall provide for the collection of the fees established in §
40.01 through an independent contractor. The fees established shall be used
first for the payment for the cost and expenses of the collection thereof, with
the balance deposited in the General Fund of the city for the operation of the
city's emergency medical service.
(Ord. 223(6-8-05), passed 6-8-05; Am. Ord. 265(4-8-09), passed 4-8-09; Am. Ord.
272(08-11-10), passed 8-11-10; Am. Ord. 297(06-11-2014), passed 6-11-14; Am.
Ord. 373(11-10-2021), passed 11-10-21; Am. Ord. 388(06-28-23), passed 6-28-23)
CHAPTER 41: CITY POLICIES
Section
Community Center
   
41.01   Definitions
   
41.02   Community center reservation requirements
   
41.03   Prohibitions
 
   
41.99   Penalties
COMMUNITY CENTER
§ 41.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "COMMUNITY CENTER." The real estate and improvements thereon located and
known as 5606 Taylor Mill Road, in the City of Taylor Mill, in Kenton County,
Ky. with PIDN: 058-40-00171.01.
1.3 - 501(c)(3) Organization:
   "ORGANIZATION." Any organization which has been determined by the U.S.
Internal Revenue Service to be exempt from federal income tax pursuant to
Section 501 (a) of the Internal Revenue Code as described in Section 501(c)(3)
thereof.
   "PRIME TIME." Anytime after 3:00 p.m., prevailing time, on any Friday, and
any time on any Saturday or Sunday, and any time on the Christmas Eve,
Christmas, New Year's Day, Easter, Fourth of July, Memorial Day, Labor Day or
Thanksgiving Day.
(Ord. 182(2-13-02), passed 2-13-02)
§ 41.02 COMMUNITY CENTER RESERVATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The use of the community center may be reserved by anybody who is over
twenty-one years of age, for the exclusive use of any group or organization,
for a day at a time, on any day for which there has been no prior reservation,
provided that the city is provided with the following documents, fees and
deposits as a condition thereof:
      (1)   Reservation agreement. A written reservation agreement, which shall
be signed by the person making the reservation, and which shall include:
         (a)   Event description. A description of event for which the
community center is being reserved, including, without limitation, the times at
which the event shall begin and end, no part of which shall be during the
period after midnight and before 7:00 A.M., prevailing time, without a written
authorization therefor signed by the City Administrative Officer; and
         (b)   Additional provisions. Additional provisions in regard to the
requirements and prohibitions established herein, along with any other
provisions determined by the City Administrative Officer to be appropriate in
the circumstances, which are not contrary to any of the provisions hereof.
      (2)   Reservation fee. A non-refundable reservation fee in the amount
indicated in the following schedule; provided, however:
         (a)   The residential rate shall be applicable only to city residents
and schools, churches and businesses with a physical location in the city.
         (b)   The non-residential rate shall be applicable to everyone who is
not a city resident or a school, church, or a business with a physical location
in the city; and
         (c)   The discounted rate for officers and employees of the city is
limited to one such reservation during any one calendar year.
 
                              Resident Rate                    Employee Rate
                              (Residents of    Non-Resident    (One-time
Proposed New Section of House Taylor Mill,     Rate            discounted
Rates                         schools,         (Businesses not rental per
                              churches, and    in Taylor Mill) calendar year)
                              businesses)
Weekend and
Holidays
(Friday,     Whole house      $350 rental $200 $450 rental     $200 rental
Saturday,                     deposit          $200 deposit    $200 deposit
Sunday, and
Holidays)
Weekdays                      $275 rental      $350 rental     $160 rental
(Monday -    Whole house      $200 deposit     $200 deposit    $200 deposit
Thursday)
Weekdays
Monday -                      $75 rental       $150 rental     $37.50 rental
Thursday     Café            $100 deposit     $100 deposit    $100 deposit
(no weekend
rentals)
Shelters                      $60 rental       $75 rental      $30 rental
                              $50 deposit      $50 deposit     $50 deposit
 
      (3)   Security deposit. A security deposit in the amount of $200 for the
whole community center reservations and $100 for café reservations, which shall
be refunded only in the event that within one hour after the event for which
the community center was reserved, the community center is cleaned to the same
condition thereof that existed immediately prior to the event, which shall be
documented by a written check list that shall be signed before the event by the
person who made the reservation and a representative of the city. The cleaning
list will be provided at the time of reservation. A security deposit in the
amount of $50 will be required for the rental of any park shelter, which shall
be refunded only in the event the shelter is left in similar condition as that
at time of rental.
      (4)   In regard to the requirements and prohibitions established herein,
along with any other provisions determined by the City Administrative Officer
to be appropriate in the circumstances, which are not contrary to any of the
provisions hereof.
(Ord. 182(2-13-02), passed 2-13-02; Am. Ord. 348(08-14-19), passed 8-14-19)
Penalty, see §
41.99
§ 41.03 PROHIBITIONS.
   During any event for which the community center has been rented or reserved,
nobody shall cause, promote, aid, assist, allow, encourage or engage in any of
the following actions or occurrences on the premises of the community center:
   (A)   Smoking within any building thereon;
   (B)   Sound amplification to a level determined by any police officer of the
city to be disruptive of the public peace;
   (C)   The operation and use of any musical instrument in combination with
any other musical instrument, without a written authorization of the City
Administrative Officer;
   (D)   The use of any lit candles or other open flames in the building other
than in a fireplace or a glass container, such as a votive light or hurricane
lamp;
   (E)   The use of glitter, rice, confetti or other fine materials;
   (F)   The use of birdseed anywhere other than outside of the building;
   (G)   The use of helium balloons in any room with a ceiling fan;
   (H)   The use of duct tape anywhere;
   (I)   The attachment of decorations to any part of the community center by
any means other than the eye hooks provided by the city;
   (J)   The operation of any vehicles on any surface which isn't paved with
either concrete, blacktop or gravel;
   (K)   The continuation of any event after midnight, without a written
authorization of the city Administrative Officer;
   (L)   The presence of any guest on the premises of the community center more
than one-half hour after the time designated for the end of the event;
   (M)   The presence of anybody else on the premises of the community center
more than one hour after the time designated for the end of the event;
   (N)   The use of any stoves or ovens in the community center for any purpose
other than warming food;
   (O)   The location or use of any tents at the community center, which are
not provided by the city for an additional fee;
   (P)   The location of any sign in front of the building of the community
center, which doesn't comply with the ordinances and regulations of the city in
regard to temporary signs;
   (Q)   Any bubbles or bubble machines within the building of the community
center;
   (R)   The location or use of any glass bottles or containers outside of the
building of the community center; or
   (S)   Any violation of any alcoholic beverage control regulations of the
city, county or state.
(Ord. 182(2-13-02), passed 2-13-02) Penalty, see §
41.99
§ 41.99 PENALTIES.
   Each violation every other failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter shall be a misdemeanor; and each day of the continuation thereof shall
be a separate and distinct offense for which:
   (A)   Everybody convicted thereof in a court of competent jurisdiction shall
be sentenced to pay a criminal fine not to exceed the maximum amount of $500.00
as set forth in KRS 534.050 (2) (a) or a term of imprisonment not to exceed the
maximum period of 12 months as set forth in KRS 532.090 (1), or both; and
   (B)   The offender shall be subject to a civil penalty of $100 plus the
costs of collection, including, without limitation, court costs and reasonable
attorney fees for each offense, which shall be recovered by the City of Taylor
Mill in a civil action in the nature of debt if not paid by the offender within
30 days after citation for the violation or other failure to comply with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 182(2-13-02), passed 2-13-02)
CHAPTER 42: CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
Section
   
42.01   Creation
   
42.02   Meetings
   
42.03   Clerical and administrative personnel
   
42.04   Prohibitions
   
42.05   Ordinance violations
   
42.06   Civil offense
   
42.07   Notice of remediation
   
42.08   Authorization
§ 42.01 CREATION.
   Pursuant to KRS 65.8808, there is hereby created a five member Code
Enforcement Board for the city.
(Ord. 231(2-8-06), passed 2-8-06)
§ 42.02 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of the Code Enforcement Board shall
be conducted at 7:00 p.m. on the third Thursday in the month of January of each
calendar year.
   (B)   Special meetings. Meetings of the Code Enforcement Board other than
the regular meetings thereof shall be special meetings conducted according to
the requirements of the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (C)   Evidentiary hearings. Meetings of the Code Enforcement Board for the
purpose of evidentiary hearings pursuant to KRS 65.882 shall be conducted at 7:
00 p.m. on the third Thursday of the calendar month which is more than seven
days after a request therefore.
   (D)   Location of meetings. All meetings of the Code Enforcement Board shall
be conducted at the Taylor Mill City Building, 5225 Taylor Mill Road, Taylor
Mill, Kentucky.
(Ord. 231(2-8-06), passed 2-8-06)
§ 42.03 CLERICAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE PERSONNEL.
   All clerical and administrative personnel reasonably required by the Code
Enforcement Board shall be provided by the city.
(Ord. 231(2-8-06), passed 2-8-06)
§ 42.04 PROHIBITIONS.
   Nobody shall conspire, cause, permit, promote, allow, aid, assist, encourage
or engage in any non-compliance with any provision of any ordinance of the
city, by either act or omission.
(Ord. 231(2-8-06), passed 2-8-06)
§ 42.05 ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS.
   A violation of an ordinance of the city occurs upon each and every non-
compliance with any provision thereof, by either act or omission. Each and
every separate non-continuing occurrence thereof, and each and every day of
every continuing occurrence thereof is a separate violation of the ordinance.
(Ord. 231(2-8-06), passed 2-8-06)
§ 42.06 CIVIL OFFENSE.
   Except for those city ordinances the violation of which are precluded by KRS
65.8808(3) from classification as a civil offense, and except for those city
ordinances which are parking ordinances within the meaning of KRS 82.600(3),
and except as otherwise provided therein, each separate violation of every
other ordinance is hereby classified as a civil offense for which:
   (A)   The specific civil fine required by KRS 65.8808(2)(b)2. is hereby
established as $100.
   (B)   The maximum civil fine required by KRS 65.8808(2)(b)1. that may be
imposed for each separate violation is hereby established as $500.
(Ord. 231(2-8-06), passed 2-8-06)
§ 42.07 NOTICE OF REMEDIATION.
   Pursuant to KRS 65.8825(2), Code Enforcement Officers are hereby authorized
to give notice that a violation shall be remedied within a specified period of
time, as an alternative to issuing a citation.
(Ord. 231(2-8-06), passed 2-8-06)
§ 42.08 AUTHORIZATION.
   When the Code Enforcement Board determines that a violation has been
committed, the board may either: order the offender to pay a civil fine in an
amount up to $500 or order the offender to remedy a continuing violation within
a specified time, or both.
(Ord. 231(2-8-06), passed 2-8-06)
Statutory reference:
   Authorization for determining violation, see KRS 65.8828(4)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   ELECTRIC UTILITY FRANCHISE FEE
      
53.   WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
Garbage Collection Assessment
   
50.01   Definition
   
50.02   Assessment established; use of service required
   
50.03   Rate of assessment
   
50.04   Billing and duty to pay
   
50.05   Lien for nonpayment
   
50.06   Location of containers
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GARBAGE COLLECTION ASSESSMENT
§ 50.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ANYBODY." Any individual human being, or any combination thereof in the
form of a corporation, partnership, joint venture, unincorporated association
or otherwise.
   "NOBODY." No individual human being, or any combination thereof in the form
of a corporation, partnership, joint venture, unincorporated association or
otherwise.
   "UNIT." A family unit. A one-family dwelling shall constitute one "UNIT."
Each apartment in an apartment building shall be a separate "UNIT."
('78 Code, 810.2, § II; Am. Ord. 45(9-9-92), passed 9-9-92)
§ 50.02 ASSESSMENT ESTABLISHED; USE OF SERVICE REQUIRED.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed an annual waste collection assessment upon
each parcel of real estate within the corporate limits of the city. The fees
and assessments herein set forth shall be in addition to property taxes or any
license or occupational taxes imposed by any other ordinance of the city. ('78
Code, 810.2, §§ II, IV) (Ord. 1-7-73, passed - - )
   (B)   All residents and businesses are required to utilize the city's
garbage collection service.
§ 50.03 RATE OF ASSESSMENT.
   The rate of said assessment shall be two hundred and fifty five ($255)
dollars per year for each single-family residential structure within the city,
which shall be due and payable simultaneously with the ad valorem taxes of the
city.
('78 Code, 810.2, § III) (Ord. 1-7-73, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 4-4-80, passed 4-
10-80; Am. Ord. 1-9-86, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2-6-87, passed 7-9-87; Am. Ord. 9
(9-26-90), passed 9-26-90; Am. Ord. 42(8-26-92), passed 8-26-92; Am. Ord. 123
(9-10-97), passed 9-10-97; Am. Ord. 198(6-11-03), passed 6-11-03; Am. Ord. 214
(7-14-04), passed 7-14-04; Am. Ord. 229(10-12-05), passed 10-12-05; Am. Ord.
240(11-8-06), passed 11-8-06; Am. Ord. 244(6-27-07), passed 6-27-07; Am. Ord.
285(10-26-12), passed 10-26-12; Am. Ord. 303(11-28-2014), passed 11-28-14; Am.
Ord. 310(11-19-2015), passed 11-19-15; Am. Ord. 328(11-8-2017), passed 11-8-17;
Am. Ord. 337(10-10-18), passed 10-10-18; Am. Ord. 363(09-09-2020), passed 9-9-
20; Am. Ord. 372(09-08-2021), passed 9-8-21; Am. Ord. 382(09-28-2022), passed
9-28-22; Am. Ord. 391(09-28-2023), passed 9-28-23; Am. Ord. 401(09-11-2024),
passed 9-11-24)
§ 50.04 BILLING AND DUTY TO PAY.
   The assessment shall be paid in the manner prescribed by the City Clerk/Tax
Collector upon the bill provided therefore. The bill shall be mailed to the
address of the real estate or such other address as is indicated by the owner
on forms provided by the City Clerk/Tax Collector. Any person who has any
interest in any parcel of real estate in the city shall be totally and
severally liable for the waste collection assessment.
('78 Code, 810.2, § VI) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
   Upon any nonpayment of any waste collection assessment, the city shall have
a lien upon the real estate to secure the payment of the assessment.
('78 Code, 810.2, § VII) (Ord. 1-7-73, passed - - )
§ 50.06 LOCATION OF CONTAINERS.
   Nobody shall cause, promote, permit, aid, assist, allow, encourage or engage
in either:
   (A)   The location of any garbage can or any other container for solid waste
material anywhere in the front yard of any lot or parcel of real estate in the
city to which the city provides garbage or other waste collection services at
any time other than the twenty four (24) hour period between 4:00 P.M. on the
day before any day scheduled for the collection of garbage or other solid waste
material and 12:00 P.M. on the day scheduled for collection; or
   (B)   The location of any garbage can or any other container for solid waste
material anywhere in the side yard of any lot or parcel of real estate to which
the city provides any solid waste collection services unless the containers are
concealed from the view of anybody within the right-of-way of any public street
upon which the lot or parcel of real estate abuts.
(Ord. 45(9-9-92), passed 9-9-92)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever fails to pay a waste collection assessment when liable
therefor as set forth in §
50.04 shall be fined no less than $10 nor more than $500 and the costs of
prosecution.
('78 Code, 810.2, § VII) (Ord. 7-7-73, passed )
   (B)   Each violation and every other failure to comply with the provisions
of §
50.06 shall be a misdemeanor. Each day of the continuation shall be a separate
and distinct offense for which:
      (1)   Anybody convicted in a court of competent jurisdiction shall be
sentenced to pay a criminal fine not to exceed that set forth in KRS 532.090
(1), and
      (2)   The offender shall be subject to a civil penalty of one hundred
($100.00) dollars for each offense, which shall be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of debt if not paid by the offender within thirty
(30) days after citation.
(Ord. 45 (9-9-92), passed 9-9-92)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Connection to system, payment of fees required
   
51.03   Compliance with regulations required
   
51.04   Connection to water supply
   
51.05   Permitting water to empty into sewer system
Classification of Users; Fees
   
51.15   Classification of sewer users established
   
51.16   Connection charges
   
51.17   Debt service charges
   
51.18   Basic sewer charge
   
51.19   Due date; penalty for delinquency
   
51.20   Liability for fees for private system connected to sewer system
   
51.21   Fees to be paid to Sanitation District
   
51.22   Disposition of funds
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM." Any system of pipes, drains, and conduits
owned, operated, and maintained by any person other than the city for the
purpose of collection and distribution of liquid waste material from real
estate located within the city.
   "SEWER SYSTEM." That system of pipes, drains, and conduits owned, operated,
or maintained by the city for the collection and distribution of liquid waste
material from real estate located within the city.
   "SEWER USER." Any person who owns real estate within or without the city,
upon which is located a private sewage disposal system which is connected
directly to the city sewer system.
   "SEWERABLE PROPERTY." Any parcel of real estate within the city which abuts
upon any public or private right-of-way or easement at a point where there is
located therein any portion of the city sewer system.
   "UNIT." Each portion of a structure which is occupied or intended to be
occupied by a person or his family, business, or any other association or
organization, whether incorporated or unincorporated, which is exclusively
separate and apart from the remaining portions of the structure, whether the
portion is used for residential, commercial, or industrial purposes.
(Ord. 1-7-80, passed 7-10-80)
§ 51.02 CONNECTION TO SYSTEM, PAYMENT OF FEES REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall cause or permit any sewerable property on which there
is located a private sewage disposal system to be used for any purpose unless
the private sewage disposal system thereon is connected directly to the city
sewage disposal system pursuant to the regulations of the city and until the
fees established by the terms hereof for the use of the sewage disposal system
have been paid.
   (B)   All private sewage disposal systems located on formerly non- sewerable
property shall be connected to the city sewer system within 30 days of the
property's becoming sewerable property as a result of the expansion of the city
sewer system. All owners of sewerable property shall, within 30 days after
connection into the sewer system, destroy or cause to be destroyed any
privately-owned privy, cesspool, or septic tank and shall cause the ground
where such privy, cesspool, or septic tank is located to be covered with lime
or other germ- destroying chemical.
(Ord. 1-7-80, passed 7-10-80) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Utility Commission is hereby authorized to promulgate regulations
governing connection to and use of the city sewer system consistent with this
and any other relevant ordinances of this city, and all persons shall abide by
such regulations.
   (B)   All sewer users shall abide by the rules and regulations promulgated
by Sanitation District No. 1 of Campbell and Kenton Counties, for its customers
and shall pay all fees charged by the District for sewage treatment. All
private sewage disposal systems must comply with all state and local codes.
(Ord. 1-7-80, passed 7-10-80) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 CONNECTION TO WATER SUPPLY.
   Any unit serviced by both the city sewer system and the city water system
shall not be connected to any other source of water supply, including a water
cistern.
(Ord. 1-7-80, passed 7-10-80) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 PERMITTING WATER TO EMPTY INTO SEWER SYSTEM.
   No sewer user shall permit water from any source including surface
rainwater, other than from the principal source of water supply of the
particular unit, to empty into a sewage collection system connected to the city
sewer system.
(Ord. 1-7-80, passed 7-10-80) Penalty, see §
51.99
CLASSIFICATION OF USERS; FEES
§ 51.15 CLASSIFICATION OF SEWER USERS ESTABLISHED.
   The following types of sewer users are established pursuant to KRS 96.910 et
seq.:
   (A)   Type I. Any sewer user not described as a Type II, Type III, or Type
IV sewer user as herein defined.
   (B)   Type II. A sewer user whose property is connected to an internal
public collector line of at least eight inches in diameter which was
constructed as part of a subdivision development at no cost to the city but
which system drains into a sewer line constructed by the city.
   (C)   Type III. A sewer user whose property is connected to an internal
public collector line of at least eight inches in diameter which was
constructed as part of a subdivision development at no cost to the city, which
system does not drain into any portion of a sewer line which was constructed by
the city. Notwithstanding any of the foregoing classifications, all owners of
homes in the Mill Valley Subdivision shall be considered Type III customers in
consideration of the developer's construction of sewer lines for the city.
   (D)   Type IV. A sewer user whose property is located within the old
corporate limits of the former City of Winston Park and which is connected to
that former city's system.
   (E)   Type V. A sewer user whose property is connected to the sanitary sewer
line along Grand Avenue, Winona Drive, Fairview Avenue, and Reidlin Road which
was constructed by the city with a federal grant.
(Ord. 1-7-80, passed 7-10-80; Am. Ord. 6-8-88, passed 8-18-88)
§ 51.16 CONNECTION CHARGES.
   The following charges are established for connection to the city sewer
system:
   (A)   Type I and Type V sewer users shall pay a one-time tapping fee of $400
per connection to the sewer system, the amount to be paid at the time
application for connection is made. The sewer user shall not be permitted to
connect to the system until the fee is paid.
   (B)   Type II, Type III, and Type IV sewer users shall pay a one- time
tapping fee of $200 per connection to be paid upon connection of the
subdivision's internal public collector system to the city sewer system or upon
connection of the sewer user's private sewage disposal system to the city sewer
system, whichever last occurs. If the fee is to be paid upon connection to the
sewer system in accordance with the above, then the fee shall be paid before
connection is permitted. If the fee is to be paid upon connection of the
subdivision internal public collector system to the city sewer system, then the
fee shall be paid by all sewer users of the subdivision system within 30 days
of the connection.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (A) and (B) above, all
sewer users shall pay a one-time tapping fee of $500 per connection instead of
the fee provided for in (A) or (B) of this section, if the city must provide a
connection sleeve to an existing sewer line in order to accommodate the
connection. This fee must be paid at the time the request for connection is
made.
(Ord. 1-7-80, passed 7-10-80; Am. Ord. 1-7-85, passed 9-12-85; Am. Ord. 6-8-88,
passed 8-18-88)
§ 51.17 DEBT SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   In addition to the charges set out in §
51.16, there shall be the following debt service charge to be paid by Type I
and II sewer users.
      (1)   Type I. A charge of $9.00 per month per unit for each and every
month or portion thereof the unit is connected with the city sewer system.
      (2)   Type II. A charge of $4.50 per month per unit for each and every
month or portion thereof the unit is connected with the city sewer system.
   (B)   The charges set out in division (A) above shall be eliminated by
action of the City Commission, upon a determination by the Utility Commission
that all the debt incurred in the construction of the sewer system has been
recovered.
(Ord. 1-7-80, passed 7-10-80)
§ 51.18 BASIC SEWER CHARGE.
   In addition to the charges set out in §§
51.16 and
51.17, every sewer user shall pay a basic sewer charge of $7.50 per calendar
quarter per unit for each and every calendar quarter or portion thereof such
unit is connected with the city sewer system. When the fund created by this
charge reaches $500,000, this basic charge will be eliminated until such fund
is reduced to $300,000, at which time the basic charge will be re-established.
(Ord. 1-7-80, passed 7-10-80; Am. Ord. 1-4-83, passed 5-26-83)
§ 51.19 DUE DATE; PENALTY FOR DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   All charges set out in §§
51.17 and
51.18 are to be paid within 30 days of the end of the calendar quarter in which
the connection exists.
   (B)   All fees and charges unpaid when due, including the fees described in
§
51.16, shall have added thereto a penalty of 10%, plus interest at the rate of
8% per annum, until paid.
(Ord. 1-7-80, passed 7-10-80) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.20 LIABILITY FOR FEES FOR PRIVATE SYSTEM CONNECTED TO SEWER SYSTEM.
   The owners of real estate located within the city upon which is located a
private sewage disposal system which is connected to the city sewage disposal
system shall be jointly and severally liable for the fees established pursuant
to the terms hereof for the use of the sewage disposal system, plus all
penalties and interest in regard thereto and the costs of the collection
thereof, including court costs and attorney fees. In order to secure the
payment of such sums, the city shall have a lien upon the real estate.
(Ord. 1-7-80, passed 7-10-80) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.21 FEES TO BE PAID TO SANITATION DISTRICT.
   All fees, penalties, and interest established pursuant to the terms of this
chapter shall be paid to the city or to Sanitation District No. 1 of Campbell
and Kenton Counties as the collecting agent for the city.
(Ord. 1-7-80, passed 7-10-80)
§ 51.22 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   (A)   All fees, penalties, and interest received by the city, pursuant to §
51.18 shall be deposited in a special fund designated as the Taylor Mill Sewer
System Maintenance Fund, and shall be used only for the maintenance, repair,
replacement, and expansion of the city sewer system.
   (B)   All fees, penalties, and interest received by the city pursuant to §§
51.16 and
51.17 shall be deposited in a special fund designated as the Taylor Mill Sewer
System Debt Retirement Fund, and shall be used only for the construction and
retirement of debt of the city sewer system.
(Ord. 1-7-80, passed 7-10-80)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the terms or provisions of this chapter shall
be, upon conviction, guilty of a misdemeanor and be fined not less than $10 nor
more than $500 or imprisoned for not more than 60 days or both. Each day's
violation shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. 1-7-80, passed 7-10-80)
CHAPTER 52: ELECTRIC UTILITY FRANCHISE FEE
Section
   
52.01   Payment of fee for electricity franchise required; amount
§ 52.01 PAYMENT OF FEE FOR ELECTRICITY FRANCHISE REQUIRED; AMOUNT.
   Any person who has a franchise with the city for the use of the public ways
and grounds of the city for the transmission and distribution of electricity
shall pay to the city within 90 days of the receipt thereof, a fee of 3% of the
gross receipts collected by such person from customers from the sale of
electricity within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 2-7-81, passed 8-13-81)
CHAPTER 53: WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
Section
Winston Park Water Commission
   
53.01   Water commission established
   
53.02   Duties
   
53.03   Term
   
53.04   Compensation
   
53.05   Authority
   
53.06   Liability; payment of debts
Regulations
   
53.15   Installation of meters
   
53.16   Charge for installation
   
53.17   Collection of revenue; use
   
53.18   Water rates
   
53.19   Delinquent payments; termination of service
   
53.20   Application for service
   
53.21   Responsibility for repair
   
53.22   Water cut-off valves
   
53.23   Tampering with water supply prohibited
   
53.24   Use of Class 52 Ductile Iron Pipe for additions to system
Municipal Waterworks System
   
53.30   Rates and charges; connection fees
 
   
53.99   Penalty
WINSTON PARK WATER COMMISSION
§ 53.01 WINSTON WATER PARK WATER COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a board of three (3) commissioners to be known
as the Winston Park Water Commission.
(T.M. Ord. 9-1-73, passed 1-11-73; T.M. Code 1974, § 111.01; Am. Ord. 3-3-89,
passed 3-9-89)
§ 53.02 DUTIES.
   The duties of the water commission shall be to operate, manage, and maintain
the existing water distribution system in the section of the city which lies
north of Banklick Creek. The duties shall be exercised in accordance with the
provisions of KRS Chapter 106.
(T.M. Ord. 9-1-73, passed 1-11-73; T.M. Code 1974, § 111.03; Am. Ord. 3-3-89,
passed 3-9-89)
§ 53.03 TERMS.
   The terms of office of the water commissioners shall be for a period of
three (3) years, and which shall be staggered so that no more than one
commissioner shall be appointed in any year.
(T.M. Ord. 9-1-73, passed 1-11-73; T.M. Code 1974, § 111.05; Am. Ord. 3-3-89;
passed 3-9-89)
§ 53.04 COMPENSATION.
   No compensation shall be paid to any person for serving as a member of the
water commission.
(T.M. Ord. 9-1-73, passed 1-11-73; T.M. Code 1974, § 111.07; Am. Ord. 3-3-89,
passed 3-9-89)
§ 53.05 AUTHORITY.
   The board of commissioners may enter into such contracts and hire such
personnel as are necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter, and
shall conduct all business under the name of the Winston Park Water Commission.
(T.M. Ord. 9-1-73, passed 1-11-73, T.M. Code 1974, § 111.09; Am. Ord. 3-3-89,
passed 3-9-89)
§ 53.06 LIABILITY: PAYMENT OF DEBTS.
   The board of commissioners shall be responsible for the payment of the debts
of the commission only to the extent that there are assets of the commission
available for such purposes. In no event should any member of the Winston Park
Water Commission be personally liable for the payment of any obligation of the
commission.
(T.M. Ord. 9-1-73, passed 1-11-73; T.M. Code 1974, § 111.11; Am. Ord. 3-3-89,
passed 3-9-89)
REGULATIONS
§ 53.15 INSTALLATION OF METERS.
   The water commission shall install water meters in every house in the city
which lies north of Banklick Creek, and which fronts on any street wherein
water mains have been installed.
(W.P. Ord. 9-1933, passed 10-2-33; T.M. Code 1974, § 111.13; Am. Ord. 3-3-89,
passed 3-9-89)
§ 53.16 CHARGE FOR INSTALLATION.
   (A)   A flat charge of twenty-five ($25.00) dollars shall be made for the
installation of a meter and connections thereto for any new house. The charge
is payable before the building permit is granted.
   (B)   The installation of pipes for water service in any building in the
city which lies north of Banklick Creek, shall be made in such a manner that
the meter can be installed, without altering or changing any of the pipes, by
leaving a space of sufficient width for the insertion of the meter. This space,
however, may be filled by a short piece of pipe in such a manner as to make the
short piece of pipe easily removable. The owner of any building or the plumber
performing the work shall, in addition to the flat charge of twenty-five
($25.00) dollars set out above, deposit with the clerk of the city an
additional sum of twenty-five ($25.00) dollars. In the event any installation
of pipes for water service is made without providing a space for the
installation of the meter, the city shall hire a plumber to make whatever
changes are necessary and pay the expense out of the deposit of twenty-five
($25.00) dollars. In the event the installation is properly made, the twenty-
five ($25.00) dollars is to be returned to the party making the deposit.
(W.P. Ord. 2-1950, § 1, passed 4-10-50; T.M. Code 1974, § 111.15; Am. Ord. 3-3-
89; passed 3-9-89)
§ 53.17 COLLECTION OF AUTHORIZED REVENUE; USE.
   The water commission is hereby authorized to collect all water rents and
other charges and to keep the revenue in a separate fund to be known as the
water fund. The revenue derived from water rents and other charges shall be
used only for the purchase of water and water meters and for other necessary
expenses of operating the water system.
(W.P. Ord. 9-1933, § 4, passed 10-2-33; T.M. Code 1974, § 111.17; Am. Ord. 3-3-
89, passed 3-9-89)
§ 53.18 WATER RATES.
   The water commission shall charge a rate of fifteen dollars ($15.00) per
quarter year for the first one thousand (1,000) cubic feet used by the
occupants of each house or apartment, and a further charge of one dollar and
fifty cents ($1.50) per one hundred cubic feet for all water consumed by the
occupants of each house or apartment over and above one thousand (1,000) cubic
feet per quarter year.
(W.P. Ord. 9-1952, § 1, passed 12-3-52; T.M. Code 1974, § 111.19; Am. Ord. 3-3-
89, passed 3-9-89)
§ 53.19 DELINQUENT PAYMENTS; TERMINATION OF WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   The charges for water are payable at the end of each quarter and if
not paid within thirty (30) days after the end of each quarter, a penalty of
ten percent (10%) of the amount of the bill shall be added and the bill placed
in the hands of the police for collection.
   (B)   In the event the amount of the bill plus the ten percent (10%) penalty
is not paid to the police within five (5) days after being notified by the
police that the bill is delinquent, the water commission shall shut off the
water supply. An additional charge of one ($1.00) dollar shall be made when the
water is turned back on.
   (C)   If owing to unemployment or financial reverses any person is unable to
pay the water bill when due, the city council of the city may, if they deem
proper, exempt the person from the penalty herein provided and permit the
person to continue to use water, but the charges will not be remitted.
(W.P. Ord. 9-1952, § 1, passed 12-3-52; T.M. Code 19-4, § 111.21; Am. Ord. 3-3-
89, passed 3-9-89)
§ 53.20 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   Any person, firm, or corporation which lies in the section of the city north
of Banklick Creek desiring to become a consumer of water shall make application
to the Clerk of the city. The application shall be accompanied by a cash
deposit of five ($5.00) dollars as a guarantee that the applicant shall pay for
the water consumed. The five ($5.00) dollar deposit shall be refunded to the
applicant when he ceases to be a consumer of water in the aforementioned area,
providing that all previous water bills have been paid in full.
(W.P. Ord. 9-1952, § 1, passed 12-2-52; T.M. Code 1974, § 111.23; Am. Ord. 3-3-
89, passed 3-9-89)
§ 53.21 RESPONSIBILITY FOR REPAIR.
   (A)   In cases of needed repair to water lines, if any trouble occurs on the
water line from the building to the cut-off valve it is the responsibility of
the property owner. If any trouble occurs in the cut-off valve or in the main
water line it is the responsibility of the city.
(W.P. Ord. 2-1964, passed 3-4-64; T.M. Code 1974, § 111.25; Am. Ord. 3-3-89,
passed 3-9-89)
   (B)   All water meters and cut-off valves shall be maintained by the
customer or the owner of the property or real estate serviced thereby, in a
condition which is visible and accessible to the city, and the Winston Park
Water Commission, and the officers, agents, servants and employees thereof.
(Ord. 3-3-89, passed 3-9-89)
§ 53.22 WATER CUT-OFF VALVES.
   (A)   All water cut-off valves shall be placed at the curb of the street in
front of the building to be supplied with water unless the building inspector
orders the cut-off valve placed at some other secure and convenient place.
Building inspector orders with respect to the placement of water cut-off valves
must be in writing.
   (B)   All water cut-off valves shall be placed in cast iron chambers.
(W.P. Ord. 2-1961, § 1, passed 1-3-61; T.M. Code 1974, § 111.27; Am. Ord. 3-3-
89, passed 3-9-89)
§ 53.23 TAMPERING WITH WATER SUPPLY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to tamper with any
water meter, shut-off valve or box, or to turn off or on the water supply. This
section shall not apply to a duly authorized agent or employee of the water
department in the performance of his duties.
(W.P. Ord. 17-1934, § 2, passed 7-2-34; T.M. Code 1974, § 82.03; Am. Ord. 3-3-
89, passed 3-9-89)
§ 53.24 USE OF CLASS 52 DUCTILE IRON PIPE FOR ADDITIONS TO SYSTEM.
   Nobody shall cause, permit, promote, aid, assist, allow, encourage or engage
in the use of any pipe other than Class 52 Ductile Iron Pipe for connections to
or extensions of the water distribution system owned and operated by the city.
(Ord. 150(6-9-99), passed 6-9-99) Penalty, see §
53.99
MUNICIPAL WATERWORKS SYSTEM
§ 53.30 RATES AND CHARGES: CONNECTION FEES.
   The following fees and charges are hereby established for connections to and
the use of the water system and the receipt of water therefrom:
   (A)   A connection fee is hereby established for all new connections to the
water system after the effective date of this section, which shall be the total
of the following amounts, which must be paid to the city before the connection
will be installed:
      (1)   $750 for each 5/8" or 3/4" meter required for the connection.
      (2)   $1,050 for each 1" meter required for the connection.
      (3)   $150 for each pressure regulator determined by the city to be
reasonably necessary for the connection.
      (4)   110% of the total cost of the city for each connection in excess of
1", including, without limitation, the meter and all labor, materials,
equipment and fuel necessary for the connection.
   (B)   A monthly usage fee is hereby established, at the following rates, for
the amount of water provided by the water system through each connection:
MONTHLY AMOUNT OF WATER PROVIDED WITHIN THE CITY OUTSIDE THE CITY
MONTHLY AMOUNT OF WATER WITHIN THE CITY          OUTSIDE THE CITY
PROVIDED
5/8" BY 3/4" METERS
First 2,000 gallons     $12.95 minimum (without  $13.50 minimum (without
                        exception                exception)
Next 3,000 gallons      $4.66 per 1,000 gallons  $4.86 per 1,000 gallons
Next 5,000 gallons      $3.37 per 1,000 gallons  $3.51 per 1,000 gallons
Next 15,000 gallons     $2.77 per 1,000 gallons  $2.90 per 1,000 gallons
Over 25,000 gallons     $2.29 per 1,000 gallons  $2.39 per 1,000 gallons
1" METER
First 5,000 gallons     $25.91 minimum (without  $26.99 minimum (without
                        exception)               exception)
Next 5,000 gallons      $3.37 per 1,000 gallons  $3.51 per 1,000 gallons
Next 15,000 gallons     $2.77 per 1,000 gallons  $2.90 per 1,000 gallons
Over 25,000 gallons     $2.29 per 1,000 gallons  $2.39 per 1,000 gallons
1-1/2" METER
First 10,000 gallons    $42.55 minimum (without  $44.32 minimum (without
                        exception)               exception)
Next 15,000 gallons     $2.77 per 1,000 gallons  $2.90 per 1,000 gallons
Over 25,000 gallons     $2.29 per 1,000 gallons  $2.39 per 1,000 gallons
ALL METERS OVER 1-1/2"
First 50,000 gallons    $138.43 minimum (without $144.78 minimum (without
                        exception)               exception)
Over 50,000 gallons     $2.29 per 1,000 gallons  $2.39 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (C)   The monthly usage fees hereby established shall be computed according
to the number of gallons of water flowing through each connection to the water
system each month, according to the water meter therefore. In the event that
correct information isn't obtained by the city from a water meter for any
monthly period, regardless of the reason therefor, the meter information for
that monthly period shall be the weighted average of the information for that
meter during the generally corresponding monthly periods for the previous two
calendar years. If only one history period for the month is available it will
be used as the estimate. If a history period for the month is not available the
computer will use the most recent history period. If there is no history
available the operator must key in an estimate.
   (D)   A monthly fire hydrant protection fee is hereby established in the
amount of $1 for each connection to the system, in addition to the monthly
usage fees hereinbefore established, for the availability of a supply of water
at no additional charge from fire hydrants in the system, for the
extinguishment of uncontrolled fires on any parcel of real estate serviced by
the water system.
   (E)   Services charges for the maintenance and repair of connections to the
water system are hereby established at the following rates:
      (1)   $30 per hour, with a minimum of $30 during the period after 7:30
a.m. and before 3:30 p.m. on any day that isn't a Saturday, Sunday or a city
holiday.
      (2)   $50 per hour, with a minimum of $50 during any other time which
isn't on a city holiday.
      (3)   $100 per hour, with a minimum of $100, during any time on any city
holiday.
   (F)   A fee of $30 is hereby established for each time the supply of water
to a connection to the water system is either turned on or turned off by the
city, for any violation of this section or any ordinance of the city, or
pursuant to KRS 220.510, which shall be due and payable before the supply of
water thereto is turned back on.
   (G)   A reinstallation fee of $50 is hereby established for the
reinstallation or remediation of any water meter that has been the subject of
any tampering or any other unauthorized adjustments.
   (H)   A returned check fee of $13 is hereby established for each check
returned to the city without payment thereof.
   (I)   Nobody other than officers, agents, employees and volunteers of the
city, acting within the authority thereof, shall conspire, cause, permit,
promote, allow, aid, assist, encourage or engage in the receipt or use of any
water directly from a fire hydrant of the water system, except for the
extinguishment of uncontrolled fires, without:
      (1)   Renting a water meter from the city, for a specific number of days
at the non-refundable rate of $25 per day, payable in advance;
      (2)   Using the rented water meter to measure the amount of water
obtained from the water system through the fire hydrant thereof; and then
returning the rented water meter to the city, at the end of the period for
which it was rented; and simultaneously therewith, paying the city for the
water obtained at the rate of the city for water meters in excess of two
inches; and
      (3)   Depositing the separate sum of $500 with the city simultaneously
with the water meter rental, to secure both: (1) the return of the rented meter
to the city, at the end of the period for which it was rented, and in the same
condition that it was in when it was rented; and (2) the payment of the
aforedescribed fee of the city for the water obtained through the fire hydrant.
Upon the return of the rented water meter to the city at the end of the period
for which it was rented, and the simultaneous payment of the fees of the city
for the water obtained through the fire hydrant, the $500 security deposit
shall be returned or refunded by the city to the person who paid it; but
otherwise, the $500 security deposit shall be forfeited to the city, in
addition to any other penalties provided for the violation of this section.
   (J)   No water or services shall be provided by the water system through any
connection thereto, unless the owner(s) of the parcel of real estate serviced
thereby have, at least five business days prior to the effective date thereof,
provided the city with their written agreement, on a form provided by the city
to pay all usage fees, taxes, penalties, interest and collection costs incurred
therefor while they are the owners of that parcel of real estate, with the
monthly usage fees and the taxes thereon for any calendar month in which there
is a change in the ownership of that parcel of real estate pro-rated between
the new and old owners, on a daily average basis, for the period of the month
before and after the date of the transfer of ownership. The agreement of the
owner(s) may be terminated only through a written notice thereof, effective no
sooner than two business days after the receipt thereof by the city.
   (K)   Water system bills.
      (1)   Issuance to owners of real estate: At the end of every calendar
month, or shortly thereafter, the city shall issue a bill to the owners of each
parcel of real estate serviced by the water system, for all unpaid water system
fees related to that parcel of real estate, and the taxes thereon, which shall
be immediately due and payable, and which shall become delinquent on the next
following the 15th day of the calendar month, unless payment thereof is
received by the water system prior thereto; and, thereafter, such fees shall be
subject to a penalty of 15% thereof, plus collection costs, including, without
limitation, court costs and reasonable attorney fees.
      (2)   Alternate addresses and recipients: Upon the receipt of a written
authorization therefor from the owners of a parcel of real estate serviced by
the water system, the city shall cause the bills for the water system fees
related to that parcel of real estate to be issued to any other person or
address identified by the owners, but the owners thereof shall not be released
thereby from their obligation for the payment thereof.
      (3)   Accommodation mailing: As an accommodation only, the water system
may attempt to cause water system bills to be delivered to the addressee
thereof through the U. S. Postal Service; but the water system shall have no
responsibility for such delivery; and any failure therein shall not relieve the
owner(s) of the real estate from their responsibility and obligation for the
payment thereof.
   (L)   Termination of water service for non-payment of fees or other
violations of this section. The supply of water through a meter for which any
bill has become delinquent and remains unpaid, or which is any way related to
any violation of this section, or through which water is provided to any parcel
of real estate upon which any violation of any provision of this section has
occurred during the previous 12 months, shall be discontinued and turned off by
the water system; but only after a written notice thereof has been mailed to
the addressee of the water system bills therefor, more than ten days prior
thereto, with a description of the procedure by which the delinquency or
violation may be disputed; provided, however, that in the event that a written
notice that the delinquency or violation is disputed has been received by the
water system before the water is turned off, the water shall not be turned off
until the delinquency or violation is determined to exist, through an
administrative hearing conducted by the City Administrative Officer, which
conforms to all of the constitutional requirements of due process therefore.
   (M)   Nobody other than officers, agents, employees and volunteers of the
city, acting within the authority thereof, shall conspire, cause, permit,
promote, allow, aid, assist, encourage or engage in either:
      (1)   The receipt, possession or use of any water from the water system,
otherwise than through a meter for which the city has a written agreement to
pay the city fees and charges therefor, at the rates and times established by
the city; or
      (2)   Any tampering with or other adjustments to any water meter or other
equipment of the water system.
(Ord. 166(10-25-00), passed 10-25-00; Am. Ord. 201(8-13-03), passed 8-13-03;
Am. Ord. 204(10-8-03), passed 10-8-03)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Each violation and every other failure to comply with the provisions of §§
53.24 and
53.30 shall be a misdemeanor; and each day of the continuation thereof shall be
a separate and distinct offense for which:
   (A)   Everybody convicted thereof in a court of competent jurisdiction shall
be sentenced to pay a criminal fine not to exceed the maximum amount of $500.00
as set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(a) or a term of imprisonment not to exceed the
maximum period of twelve (12) months as set forth in KRS 532.090(1), or both;
and
   (B)   The offender shall be subject to a civil penalty of $100 for each
offense, which shall be recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature
of debt if not paid by the offender within 30 days after citation for the
violation or other failure to comply with the provisions of §§
53.24 and
53.30.
(Ord. 150(6-9-99), passed 6-9-99; Am. Ord. 166(10-25-00), passed 10-25-00)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
   
70.06   Authority to erect signs
   
70.07   Exemptions
   
70.08   Handicapped parking signs
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Signal legends
   
70.16   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.17   Obedience to signals
   
70.18   Interference with signals
   
70.19   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.20   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.21   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
Traffic Citations
   
70.55   Citation in lieu of arrest
   
70.56   Failure to comply with citation
 
   
70.99   General penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ANYBODY." Any human being, or any organization or combination thereof, in
the form of a corporation, partnership, joint venture, unincorporated
association, or otherwise.
   "AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES." Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney's office when on official
business, and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   "BOULEVARD." Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is
required to stop before entering or crossing such boulevard.
   "BUSINESS DISTRICT." Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   "CROSSWALK." That portion of the roadway included within the extension of
the sidewalk across any intersection, and such other portions of the roadway
between two intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and
marked by stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   "CURB." The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   "INTERSECTION." That part of the public way embraced within the extensions
of the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle whether or
not one such street crosses the other.
   "MOTOR VEHICLE." Any wheeled vehicle propelled by any means other than
muscular power.
   "NOBODY." No human being, or any organization or combination thereof, in the
form of a corporation, partnership, joint venture, unincorporated association,
or otherwise.
   "OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES." All signs, signals, warnings,
directions, markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority
of the City Commission.
   "ONE-WAY STREET." A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   "OPERATOR." Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   "PARK." When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   "PEDESTRIAN." Any person afoot.
   "PLAY STREET." Any street or portion thereof so designated by the City
Commission and reserved as a play area for children, from which any traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   "POLICE DEPARTMENT." The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   "PUBLIC WAY." The entire width between property lines of every way,
dedicated passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths
and foot paths.
   "REVERSE TURN." To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to
proceed in the opposite direction.
   "RIGHT-OF-WAY." The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   "ROADWAY." That portion of any street, improved, designated, or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel.
   "SIDEWALK." That portion of the street between the curb and the property
line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   "STOP SIGN." A stop sign designed, made, installed, and maintained according
to the specifications of the Bureau of Highways of the Transportation Cabinet
of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   "STOPPING." As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is
actually necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   "STOP SIGN." A stop sign designed, made, installed, and maintained according
to the specifications of the Bureau of Highways of the Transportation Cabinet
of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   "STREET." Every public way, including alleys.
   "TRAFFIC." Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses, and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   "VEHICLE." Every device in, on, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn on any street except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
(Am. Ord. 71(10-12-94), passed 10-12-94; Am. Ord. 100(10-23-96), passed 10-23-
96; Am. Ord. 109(04-23-97), passed 4-23-97; Am. Ord. 155(10-13-99), passed 10-
13-99; Am. Ord. 187(5-22-02), passed 5-22-02; Am. Ord. 193(9-25-02), passed 9-
25-02)
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate
any of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in
this traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city
in accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or any other signal.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall have authority to issue emergency traffic
regulations as he deems necessary during the fighting of a fire. The Police
Department shall enforce his orders in this respect. ('78 Code, 520.5, § IV
(a))
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the City Commission, Chief of Police, or other
authorized city official shall, at his discretion, have authority to impose
such traffic regulations as he may deem necessary for temporary periods not to
exceed two weeks. If these temporary regulations are necessary for a period
longer than two weeks, the City Clerk/Tax Collector shall be notified in
writing of the extended order.
§ 70.06 AUTHORITY TO ERECT SIGNS.
   The City Commission may at any regular or special meeting designate and
determine parking and loading zones for passenger and freight vehicles,
establish traffic lanes, safety zones, and quiet zones, determine and designate
one-way streets, place and maintain traffic-control devices where it may deem
necessary to regulate traffic, and make any other rules and regulations it may
deem necessary to regulate traffic and the use of the streets.
('78 Code, 530.1, § I (a))
§ 70.07 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this traffic code regulating the movement or parking of
vehicles shall not apply to emergency vehicles while the driver thereof is
engaged in the performance of emergency duties. Nor shall such provisions apply
to persons actually engaged in repairing or otherwise improving the streets
under the authority of the City Commission, the state, or Kenton County. The
foregoing exemption shall not protect the driver of any such vehicle from the
consequences of his reckless disregard of the safety of others.
('78 Code, 520.5, § I)
§ 70.08 HANDICAPPED PARKING SIGNS.
   (A)   As used herein, the words “HANDICAPPED PARKING SIGN” mean a sign
bearing the international symbol of access adopted by Rehabilitation
International, in 1969.
   (B)   The executive authority of the city shall cause handicapped parking
signs to be installed, located and maintained at any one location on a street
abutting the residence of an applicant therefore, during the year thereafter,
while:
      (1)   The applicant is a person to whom there has been issued either an
accessible parking registration plate, pursuant to KRS 186.042, or an
accessible parking placard, pursuant to KRS 189.456; and
      (2)   The residence of the applicant has no driveway, or any other type
of motor vehicle parking area; and
      (3)   Motor vehicle parking is otherwise allowed at the location for
which a handicapped parking sign is requested.
   (C)   The installation, location and maintenance of a handicapped parking
sign, shall not relieve or exempt anybody from complying with all other
statutes and ordinances regulating motor vehicle parking at the location
thereof.
(Ord. 113(6-11-97), passed 6-11-97)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words "Go," "Caution," or "Stop," or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows:
   (A)   Green alone or "Go": Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time
such signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or "Caution" when shown following the green or
"Go" signal: Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or "Stop": Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such
other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or "Go" is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed
until it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by such
signal.
   (F)   "Yield Right-of-Way": Vehicular traffic facing the "Yield Right-of-
Way" sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within such primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a "Yield Right-of-Way"
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 miles per hour, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles
entering an expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights: When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing yellow lights appear above a lane all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above such lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing yellow lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at such place prohibits
such turn.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.16 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.17 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for such
barrier or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   Such sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority
as the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.19 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the
movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal. No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal bearing any commercial
advertising. Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily
from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been
approved by the city.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
§ 70.21 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may at his discretion disregard traffic-
control lights or signals or established regulations in order to facilitate the
movement of traffic.
TRAFFIC CITATIONS
§ 70.55 CITATION IN LIEU OF ARREST.
   Any police officer may issue a citation instead of making an arrest for any
violation of the state vehicle laws or his traffic code where the offense is a
misdemeanor committed in his presence and there are reasonable grounds to
believe that the person cited will appear to answer the charge. The officer
shall take the name, address, and operator's license number of the alleged
violator in writing on a form provided by the city. The citation shall provide
that the defendant shall appear to answer to the charge against him at a place
and time designated therein.
('78 Code, 570.1, § I)
§ 70.56 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH CITATION.
   If the defendant fails to appear in response to the citation, or if there is
reasonable ground to believe that he will not appear, a complaint may be made
before the District Judge and a warrant shall be issued.
('78 Code, 570.1, § II)
§ 70.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Whoever violates one way street regulations as set out in
Chapter 74, Schedule III, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor; and each day of the
continuation thereof shall be a separate and distinct offense for which:
      (1)   Everybody convicted thereof in a court of competent jurisdiction
shall be sentenced to pay a criminal fine not to exceed the maximum amount set
forth in KRS 534.0450(2)(a) or a term of imprisonment not to exceed the maximum
period set forth in KRS 532.090(1), or both; and
      (2)   The offender shall be subject to a civil penalty of $100 for each
offense, which shall be recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature
of debt if not paid by the offender within 30 days after citation for the
violation or other failure to comply with the provisions of this title.
   (C)   Each violation and every failure to comply with the provisions of
speed limit regulations and stop intersection regulations as set forth in
Chapter 74, Schedules I and
II, shall be a violation; and each day of the continuation thereof shall be a
separate and distinct offense for which everybody convicted thereof in a court
of competent jurisdiction shall be sentenced to pay a criminal fine not to
exceed the maximum amount of $250 as set forth in KRS 534.050(2)(c).
(Ord. 68(9-14-94), passed 9-14-94; Am. Ord. 69(9-14-94), passed 9-14-94; Am.
Ord. 71(10-12-94), passed 10-12-94; Am. Ord. 100(10-23-96), passed 10-23-96;
Am. Ord. 109(04-23-97), passed 4-23-97; Am Ord. 155(10-13-99), passed 10-13-99;
Am. Ord. 181(1-9-02), passed 1-9-02; Am. Ord. 187(5-22-02), passed 5-22-02; Am.
Ord. 193(9-25-02), passed 9-25-02)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
   
71.05   Speed limits
Accidents
   
71.15   Duty of operator
   
71.16   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.25   Injury to street by vehicles
   
71.26   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.27   Smoke emission or other nuisance
Parades
   
71.40   Definitions
   
71.41   Permit required
   
71.42   Application for permit
   
71.43   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.44   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.45   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.46   Alternative permit
   
71.47   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.48   Contents of permit
   
71.49   Duties of permittee
   
71.50   Public conduct during parades
   
71.51   Revocation of permit
Trucks and Commercial Vehicles
   
71.70   Restrictions on trucks
   
71.71   Restrictions on commercial vehicles
   
71.72   Restrictions on commercial trucks
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in such distinctive
manner as to indicate such importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he shall be deemed to have violated this
division rather than division (B) above.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8)) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the City Commission, the Chief of Police, or any other authorized
city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension. On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. The operator
of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley from the
roadway may do so at low speed and with caution. Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle upon any public highway or street at a
speed greater than is reasonable and prudent having regard for the traffic, the
condition and use of that highway or street, or so as to endanger the life or
limb or injure the property of any person.
   (B)   Vehicles on public ways and streets in the city shall not exceed the
speed of 35 miles per hour except as set forth in
Chapter 74, Schedule I or except as established by the state.
('78 Code, 530.l, § III (b))
   (C)   Penalty. The fine for violating this speed limit shall be the same as
set forth in the fine schedule of KRS 189.394.
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.15 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render such assistance as may be needed.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.16 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner, or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
Penalty, see §
71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.25 INJURY TO STREET BY VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle so constructed or so loaded as
to do injury to the surface of the street.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.26 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A) Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and operating,
one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating red or blue lights visible under
normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the emergency
vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust whistle,
or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way,
immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to, the
edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and stop and remain
stopped until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed
by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B) Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall remain stopped until the
emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer or
firefighter.
   (C) No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he or she
drive into, park the vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the block where
the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he or
she is directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D) No vehicle, train, or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway, or track for use at any fire or fire alarm unless the fire
department official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E) The provisions of division (F) below shall apply to any driver
approaching a stationary:
      (1)   Emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when the emergency
vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal by displaying alternately
flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or blue lights; or
      (2)   Disabled vehicle, when the disabled vehicle is displaying some type
of warning signal, such as emergency flashers, flares, or retroreflective
signals.
   (F)   The driver of a vehicle that is approaching a vehicle described in
division (E) above shall, while proceeding with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the vehicle if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes,
with at least two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the approaching
vehicle; and
         (b)   It is possible to make the lane change with due regard to safety
and traffic conditions; or
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if the road has less than four lanes or if changing lanes would be
impossible or unsafe.
   (G)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) ('78 Code, § 520.5, §§ II, III) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.27 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke, or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) Penalty, see §
71.99
PARADES
§ 71.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "PARADE." Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city.
   "PARADE PERMIT." A permit required by this subchapter.
§ 71.41 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid,
form, or start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the
City Commission, the Chief of Police, or any other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.42 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the City Commission, the Chief of Police, or any other authorized city official
on forms provided by that person.
   (A)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairman and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his behalf;
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Commission.
(Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.43 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The City Commission, the Chief of Police, or any other authorized city
official shall issue a permit when, from a consideration of the application and
from other information obtained, he finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of fire
fighting equipment enroute to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays enroute;
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.44 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The City Commission, the Chief of Police, or any other authorized city
official shall act on the application for a parade permit within three days,
Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he
disapproves the application, he shall mail to the applicant within the three
days, Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excepted, after the date on which the
application was filed, a notice of his action stating the reasons for his
denial of the permit.
§ 71.45 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Commission. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Commission shall act on the appeal within 30 days
after its receipt.
§ 71.46 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The City Commission, the Chief of Police, or any other authorized city
official, in denying an application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to
authorize the conduct of the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route
different than that named by the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an
alternate permit shall file a written notice of his acceptance. An alternate
parade permit shall conform to the requirements of, and shall have the effect
of, a parade permit under this subchapter.
§ 71.47 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The City Commission;
   (B)   The Legal Counsel for the city;
   (C)   The Fire Chief;
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
§ 71.48 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof;
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.49 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairman or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his
person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.50 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
   (C)   Parking on parade route. The City Commission, the Chief of Police, or
any other authorized city official shall have the authority, when reasonably
necessary, to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or
other public thoroughfare or part thereof constituting a part of the route of a
parade. Signs shall be posted to such effect, and it shall be unlawful for any
person to park or leave unattended any vehicle in violation thereof. No person
shall be liable for parking on a street or other public thoroughfare unless
signs have been posted in accordance with this division.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.51 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
TRUCKS AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLES
§ 71.70 RESTRICTIONS ON TRUCKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any truck over 36,000 pounds gross weight
(including the load) to travel on or use any of the streets of the city as a
thoroughfare, except in connection with and in the ordinary course of business,
such as loading, unloading, or performing a service for a resident or business
of the city.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to trucks traveling on state or county
roads within the city.
('78 Code, 520.3, § I) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.71 RESTRICTIONS ON COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   "BUYER." A person who buys or contracts to buy goods.
      (2)   "COMMERCIAL VEHICLE." Any truck, truck tractor, trailer or semi-
trailer, other than a recreational vehicle.
      (3)   "CONSTRUCTION SITE." Any lot, parcel or tract of land for which
there is a valid, unexpired Taylor Mill building permit conspicuously posted
thereon.
      (4)   "FARM." Any parcel or tract of land which consists of at least five
(5) contiguous acres, which is used for agricultural or horticultural purposes
including, without limitation, livestock and livestock products, poultry and
poultry products, grain, hay, soybeans, tobacco, pastures and other crops,
timber, orchards, fruit, vegetables, flowers and ornamental plants, along with
buildings and other structures necessary therefor, including, without
limitation, dwellings for the owners and operators thereof.
      (5)   "GOODS." Any property which is both moveable and tangible.
      (6)   "RECREATIONAL VEHICLE." Has the same meaning therefor provided in
KRS 219.320(8).
      (7)   "SELLER." A person who sells or contracts to sell goods.
      (8)   "SEMI-TRAILER." A wheeled vehicle with a load capacity of over
1,500 pounds, which is designed to have its front end supported and pulled by a
truck or truck tractor, as defined herein.
      (9)   "STREET." Any street or highway other than those streets or
highways maintained by Kenton County or the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
      (10)   "TRAILER." A wheeled vehicle with a load capacity of over 1,000
pounds, which is designed to be pulled by a, truck or truck tractor, as defined
herein, but supported by its own wheels, independent of any other support.
      (11)   "TRUCK." Any motor vehicle with a declared gross weight in excess
of 6,000 pounds, other than emergency vehicles of the city.
      (12)   "TRUCK TRACTOR." Any motor vehicle designed to pull and support
the front end of a semi-trailer.
   (B)   No person shall cause or permit the operation or location of a
commercial vehicle upon any portion of any street in the city except for the
purpose of delivery of goods from a seller to a buyer who is either a resident
or owner of real estate which is contiguous to any portion of the street.
   (C)   Nobody shall conspire, promote, cause, permit, allow, aid, assist,
encourage or engage in the location of any parked commercial vehicle outside of
a garage or other enclosure, on any lot or parcel of real estate in the City
other than a farm, or construction site, or any public right-of-way abutting
thereon, unless such commercial vehicle is being used for the purpose of the
receipt or delivery of tangible items to or from a resident or owner of such
parcel of real estate, other than the owner or operator of such commercial
vehicle.
   (D)   A violation of this section occurs upon any non-compliance with any
provision of this section, by either act or omission; and each and every
separate non-continuing occurrence thereof, and each and every day of any
continuing occurrence thereof is a separate violation of this section.
(Ord. 1-3-83, passed - -83; Am. Ord. 167(10-25-00), passed 10-25-00) Penalty,
see §
71.99
§ 71.72 RESTRICTIONS ON COMMERCIAL TRUCKS.
   (A)   Definitions. As used herein, the following words and phrases have the
meanings indicated for them.
      (1)   "ANYBODY." Any human being, any organization, or combination
thereof, in the form of a corporation, partnership, joint venture,
unincorporated association or otherwise.
      (2)   "COMMERCIAL TRUCK." Any motor vehicle with a gross vehicle weight
rating (GVWR) of more than 10,000 pounds.
      (3)   "MOTOR VEHICLE." Any wheeled vehicle propelled by any means other
than gravity or muscular power.
      (4)   "NOBODY." No human being, no organization, or combination thereof,
in the form of a corporation, partnership, joint venture, unincorporated
association or otherwise.
      (5)   "SIGN." A sign designed, made, installed and maintained according
to the specifications of the Bureau of Highways of the Transportation Cabinet
of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (B)   Sign location. The Public Works Department of the city shall cause
signs prohibiting commercial trucks to be installed, located and maintained at
the following locations:
      (1)   Within the northerly side of the right-of-way of Blackstone Court,
at its intersection with the right-of-way of Pride Parkway, so that the sign is
facing motor vehicle traffic proceeding in an easterly direction on Blackstone
Court.
      (2)   Within the easterly side of the right-of-way of Maple Ridge Drive
at its intersection with the right-of-way of McCowan Drive, so that the sign is
facing motor vehicle traffic proceeding in an easterly direction on McCowan
Drive.
   (C)   Prohibition. Nobody shall cause, promote, aid, assist, encourage,
allow or engage in the operation of any commercial truck on either:
      (1)   Any portion of Blackstone Court; or
      (2)   Any portion of McCowan Drive, between Maple Ridge Drive and
Blackstone Court.
(Ord. 317(01-11-2017), passed 01-11-17) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not
less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.26 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not less than $60 nor more
than $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 30 days, or
both. (KRS 189.993(8))
   (C)   (1)   Each separate violation of §
71.71 is hereby classified as a criminal offense and made a misdemeanor, for
which there is hereby imposed a criminal fine, not to exceed the maximum of
$500, as set forth in KRS 534.050(2), or a term of imprisonment not to exceed
the maximum period of 12 months, as set forth in KRS 532.090(1), or both.
      (2)   Each separate violation of §
71.71 is hereby classified as a civil offense, for which:
         (a)   The maximum civil fine required by KRS 65.8808(2)(b)1. that may
be imposed for each separate violation of §
71.71, is hereby established as $500;
         (b)   The specific civil fine required by KRS 65.8808(2)(b)2., that
will be imposed for each separate offense and violation of §
71.71 if the person who has committed the violation and offense does not
contest a citation therefor, is hereby established as $100; and
         (c)   An enforcement officer may, in lieu of immediately issuing a
civil citation therefor, give notice that the violation of §
71.71 shall be remedied within a specific period of time.
(Am. Ord. 167(10-25-00), passed 10-25-00)
   (D)   Each violation and every other failure to comply with the provisions
of §
71.72 shall be a violation; and each day of the continuation thereof shall be a
separate and distinct offense for which everybody convicted thereof in a court
of competent jurisdiction shall be sentenced to pay a criminal fine not to
exceed the maximum amount of $250, as set forth in KRS 534.050(2)(c).
(Am. Ord. 317(01-11-2017), passed 01-11-17)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   A11-night parking
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.12   Parking with handicapped permits
   
72.13   Parking near fire
   
72.14   Parking in fire lanes
   
72.15   Parking inoperative vehicle
   
72.16   Parking near intersections; mailboxes
Impounding
   
72.20   Definitions
   
72.21   Authority to impound
   
72.22   Impoundment procedure
   
72.23   Costs to be paid by owner
Snow Emergency
   
72.35   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.36   Signs indicating snow emergency route
   
72.37   Parking during snow emergency
   
72.38   Removal of vehicles in violation
   
72.39   Evidence of operation
Enforcement
   
72.50   Hearing Board
   
72.51   Parking citations
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines, and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS
65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that such
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. Such backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway of moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the center line of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet
of the center line of any street. Such diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which such vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park such
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park such
vehicle except in a case of real emergency or in compliance with the provisions
of this traffic code or when directed by a police officer or traffic sign or
signal at any time in the following places:
   (A)   On the mainly-traveled portion of any roadway or on any other place in
the roadway where vehicles stand in any manner other than as specified in §
72.02.
   (B)   On a sidewalk.
   (C)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities.
   (D)   In front of a public or private driveway.
   (E)   Within an intersection or within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an
intersection or on a crosswalk.
   (F)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking. This
does not apply to police officers when operating properly identified vehicles
during the performance of their official duties.
   (G)   Within 30 feet of the approach to any flashing beacon, traffic sign,
or traffic-control device.
   (H)   Within 20 feet of any fire hydrant.
   (I)   On any controlled access highway.
   (J)   Within a highway tunnel.
   (K)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant.
   (1)   In an area between the roadways of a divided highway.
   (M)   On any section of a street within a cul-de-sac or turn-around at the
end of the street or within 10 feet thereof. (Ord. 1-6-85, passed - -85)
   (N)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area.
(KRS 189.450(5) - (7)) ('78 Code, § 540.l, § I) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of vehicles in
specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to handicapped parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice
thereof. However, in lieu of erecting such signs or in conjunction therewith,
the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is
prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No such regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the
signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the
time of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions
which by their very nature would not require such signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 A11-NIGHT PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle on any
of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer.
Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or streets
of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed abandoned, and
shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city pertaining to
abandoned motor vehicles.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Removal of abandoned vehicles, see §
72.21 et seq.
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The City Commission, the Chief of Police, or any other authorized city
official shall have the authority, whenever in his judgment it is necessary, to
prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof
constituting a part of the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary
traffic signs to that effect, and to prohibit and prevent such parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of such signs or directions.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§
71.40 through
71.51
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or abandon
the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another's property, or on an
area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of the
owner, lessee, or person in charge of any such property or facility. If at any
time a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise trespasses in violation of
the provisions of this section, a warrant may be obtained in District Court by
the owner, lessee, or person in charge of the property or facility, and the
Police Department, on written complaint of the owner, lessee, or person in
charge, shall remove or cause to be removed the vehicle in accordance with the
provisions of §§
72.20 through 72.24.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway. However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any such park or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on such roadway.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING WITH HANDICAPPED PERMITS.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for handicapped persons, when operated by a
handicapped person or when transporting a handicapped person, may be parked in
a designated handicapped parking place, or when parked in a metered parking
space may be parked for two hours for no fee, or when parked where any parking
limit is imposed may be parked for two hours in excess of the parking limit.
The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone for that period of time
necessary to permit entrance or exit of the handicapped person to or from the
parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a "no stopping" or "no
parking" zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon, or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 PARKING NEAR FIRE.
   No vehicle shall park any closer to a fire than as set forth in §
71.26(C). The Fire Chief shall have the authority to cause the removal of any
car parked in any manner in any place when he deems it necessary for the
fighting of a fire.
('78 Code, 520.5, § IV(b))
§ 72.14 PARKING IN FIRE LANES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   "FIRE HYDRANT." Any pipe through which water may be discharged from
the water distribution system provided by the city and, to which there may be
connected any hoses of any department or organization provided by the city for
the prevention and extinguishment of fires.
      (2)   "FIRE LANE." That portion of any narrow street in the city which is
on the same side of the street as a fire hydrant and within 20 feet thereof.
      (3)   "NARROW STREET." That portion of any public street or right-of-way
in the city upon which the pavement thereof is less than 20 feet in width.
      (4)   "PARKED." To stop and leave unattended for any period of time.
   (B)   No person shall cause or permit a motor vehicle to be parked within
any portion of a fire lane in the city.
(Ord. 1-9-84, passed - -84) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.15 PARKING INOPERATIVE VEHICLE.
   (A)   Nobody shall cause, permit, allow, aid, assist, encourage or engage in
the use of any property within the city for the parking, storage, or any other
location of any separate motor vehicle part, or any motor vehicle which isn't
registered or licensed and in a condition for operation on a public street or
highway according to law, unless the motor vehicle or separate motor vehicle
part is within a garage or other building.
   (B)   In the event that any separate motor vehicle part or motor vehicle is
parked or otherwise located in violation of subsection (A) above, for any
portion of two (2) or more days, it shall be presumed in the absence of any
credible evidence to the contrary, that the separate motor vehicle part or
motor vehicle was parked or otherwise located by permission of the registered
owner of the vehicle, and permitted and allowed by the owner of the real estate
upon which the separate motor vehicle part or motor vehicle is parked or
otherwise located.
(Ord. 1-7-79, passed 7-12-79; Am. Ord. 34(4-8-92), 4-8-92)
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.16 PARKING NEAR INTERSECTION; MAILBOXES.
   Nobody shall cause, permit, allow, aid, assist, encourage or engage in the
location of any parked motor vehicle on any public street or highway within
twenty (20) feet of an intersection of public streets or highways, or within
ten (10) feet of any mailbox used for the delivery of mail by the U.S. Postal
Service or any other agency of the federal government.
(Ord. 34(4-8-92), passed 4-8-92)
Penalty, see 72.99
Cross Reference:
   Parking Schedules, see
Chapter 75, Sched. I
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "LAW." The common law and any act, statute, ordinance, regulation, or order
of the United States, Commonwealth of Kentucky, Kenton County, this city, or
any department, agency, or officer thereof.
   "PEACE OFFICER." A peace officer as defined in KRS 446.010(31) or any other
person authorized to make arrests.
(Ord. 2-3-83, passed - -83; Am. Ord. 1-3-84, passed - -84)
§ 72.21 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND.
   All peace officers of the city are hereby authorized and directed to cause
to be impounded and removed to a safe and secure location any motor vehicle
which is owned, operated, parked, or otherwise located upon any public street
in the city in violation of any law when in the opinion of the peace officer
the motor vehicle:
   (A)   Has been abandoned;
   (B)   Constitutes a nuisance at common law;
   (C)   Constitutes an impediment or hazard to the reasonable and lawful use
of the street upon which it is located;
   (D)   Is evidence in any judicial action, whether criminal or civil.
(Ord. 2-3-83, passed - -83; Am. Ord. 1-3-84, passed - -84)
§ 72.22 IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURE.
   The impoundment procedures set forth in KRS 82.625 are hereby incorporated
by reference as if fully set forth herein.
('78 Code, 570.2, § II)
§ 72.23 COSTS TO BE PAID BY OWNER.
   Pursuant to the authority of KRS 82.625, the following changes are hereby
imposed upon motor vehicles impounded by or on behalf of the city through its
officer or agency. The city shall have a lien upon the motor vehicle and the
release of such motor vehicle from impoundment is hereby conditioned upon the
payment of charges to or on behalf of the city unless the owner or any other
person entitled to possession challenges the validity of impoundment pursuant
to KRS 82.625(4).
   (A)   A towing charge of fifty dollars ($50.00);
   (B)   Storage charges of seven dollars ($7.00) for each day of storage;
   (C)   Any and all other reasonable and extraordinary towing expenses; and
   (D)   A handling charge of fifty dollars ($50.00).
(Ord. 2-3-83, passed - -83); Am. Ord. 1-3-84, passed - - 84; Am. Ord. 48(11-11-
92), passed 11-11-92; Am. Ord. 354(03-11-2020), passed 3-11-20)
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.35 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   A snow emergency may be declared by the City Commission during any time in
which it determines that snow or ice have substantially created a risk of
collisions by motor vehicles being operated on the streets of the city with
motor vehicles parked or located on such streets.
(Ord. 3-2-79, passed 2-8-79)
§ 72.36 SIGNS INDICATING SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE.
   The City Commission shall have signs installed at appropriate locations on
each of the streets of the city containing the following information: "No
parking when snow exceeds two (2") inches or during a declared snow emergency."
(Ord. 3-2-79, passed 2-8-79)
§ 72.37 PARKING DURING SNOW EMERGENCY.
   No person shall cause or permit any motor vehicle to be located upon the
pavement or right-of-way of any portion of any street in the city at any time
during which:
   (A)   There is an accumulation of snow or ice upon any portion of such
streets in excess of two inches in depth; or
   (B)   A snow emergency has been declared by the City Commission.
(Ord. 3-2-79, passed 2-8-79) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.38 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES IN VIOLATION.
   All peace officers are hereby authorized and directed to cause all motor
vehicles located upon any portion of the streets of the city in violation of
the terms of this subchapter to be removed from the streets. The city shall
have a lien upon each of the motor vehicles so removed for the cost of removal,
as set forth in §§
72.20 through 72.24. The city or any person in its behalf may retain possession
of such motor vehicles until the cost of removal has been paid to the city.
(Ord. 3-2-79, passed 2-8-79) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.39 EVIDENCE OF OPERATION.
   In any prosecution for a violation of the terms and provisions of this
subchapter, it shall be presumed in the absence of conclusive evidence to the
contrary that the person to whom the motor vehicle is registered caused or
permitted the location thereof in the manner indicated in the evidence.
(Ord. 3-2-79, passed 2-8-79)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 72.50 HEARING BOARD.
   The Hearing Board defined in KRS 82.600 (2) is hereby established and shall
be composed of one person, to be appointed by the City Commission.
(Ord. 2-1-86, passed 2-13-86)
§ 72.51 PARKING CITATIONS.
   Whenever any motor vehicle is found parked, standing, or stopped in
violation of any of the restrictions imposed by ordinance, the officer shall
take down the vehicle's registration number and any other information available
which may identify it, and if the driver is not present, shall conspicuously
affix to the vehicle a notice or citation in writing on a form provided by the
city and containing the information required by KRS 82.610, for the driver to
answer the charge against him at a place and time designated therein.
('78 Code, 570.1)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In the absence of the establishment of a different monetary penalty
for the civil enforcement of a parking ordinance as defined in KRS 82.600 (3),
the monetary penalty is hereby established as the sum of twenty ($20.00)
dollars for each violation.
(Ord. 2-1-86, passed 1-13-86; Am. Ord. 30(9-25-91), passed 9-25-91)
   (B)   Any person who violates §§
72.15 -
72.16, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction thereof, be
sentenced to pay a fine for each offense or violation of no less than ten
($10.00) dollars or no more than five hundred ($500.00) dollars, or sentenced
to imprisonment for no more than ninety (90) days, according to law, or any
combination of such sentences of fines and imprisonment.
(Ord. 21(6-12-91), passed 6-12-91; Am. Ord. 34(4-8-92), passed 4-8-92)
   (C)   The offender shall be subject to a civil penalty of $100 for each
offense, which shall be recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature
of debt if not paid by the offender within 30 days after citation for the
violation or other failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   (1)   Any person who violates the regulations et forth in
Chapter 75, Schedule I shall be guilty of a misdemeanor for which everybody
convicted thereof in a court of competent jurisdiction shall be sentenced to
pay a criminal fine not to exceed the maximum amount of $250 as set forth in
KRS 534.040(2)(b).
      (2)   Each and every violation of
Chapter 75, Schedule I shall be a separate offense, for which the civil penalty
authorized by KRS 82.600 to 82.640 shall be $20, which shall be doubled if it
isn’t paid within seven days after the finality of a factual determination that
the parking violation identified in the citation was committed.
(Ord. 128(1-14-98), passed 1-14-98; Am. Ord. 153(7-28-99), passed 7-28-99; Am.
Ord. 194(11-20-02), passed 11-20-02)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
   
73.05   Bicycles, skates, skateboards prohibited on off-street parking
facilities; penalty
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02(C)
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot, or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on such bicycle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory-reference:
   Bicycles; safety regulations and standards, see KRS 189.287
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory-reference:
   Regulations for operating and riding on motorcycles, see KRS 189.285
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as "play streets"
by the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful
for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of any
kind, to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates, or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of
any vehicle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 BICYCLES, SKATES, SKATEBOARDS PROHIBITED ON OFF-STREET PARKING
FACILITIES: PENALTY.
   Nobody shall cause, permit, encourage, allow or engage in the operation or
use of any bicycle, skate or skateboard within or upon any off-street motor
vehicle parking facility open to public use in the city.
(Ord. 18(2-27-91), passed 2-27-91)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter unless a different
penalty is specified, shall be fined not more than $50.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the terms or provisions of §
73.05 shall be, upon conviction, guilty of a misdemeanor and be sentenced to
pay a fine for each offense or violation of no less than ten ($10.00) dollars
or more than five hundred ($500.00) dollars, or sentenced to imprisonment for
no more than ninety (90) days, according to law, or any combination of
sentences of fines and imprisonment.
(Ord. 18(2-27-91), passed 2-27-91)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Stop intersections
   
III.   One-way streets
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The speed of vehicles on the following streets shall not exceed the
limits as established below:
Street Speed Limit Ord. No. Date
Street                        Speed Limit                Ord. No.     Date
All paved streets except
Cleveland Street, Heckman
Street, Keavy Street, Kollman 20 m.p.h.                  131(4-8-98)  4-8-98
Street, Winona Street and
Fairview Street
Cleveland Street              15 m.p.h.                  131(4-8-98)  4-8-98
Fairview Street               10 m.p.h.                  131(4-8-98)  4-8-98
Heckman Street                15 m.p.h.                  131(4-8-98)  4-8-98
Keavy Street                  15 m.p.h.                  131(4-8-98)  4-8-98
Kollman Street                15 m.p.h.                  131(4-8-98)  4-8-98
Lookaway Drive                20 m.p.h.                  125(10-8-97) 10-8-97
Mason Road, between Riedlin
Road and State Route 177,     25 m.p.h.                  193(9-25-02) 9-25-02
also known as Decoursey Pike
                              45 m.p.h. except during
                              school hours in areas
Taylor Mill Road              designated as school zones
                              during which the speed is
                              limited to 25 m.p.h.
Wayman Branch Road            35 m.p.h.
Winona Street                 15 m.p.h.                  131(4-8-98)  4-8-98
 
('78 Code, 530.l, § III (b)) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   For the general speed limit in the city, see §
71.05
SCHEDULE II. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Nobody shall cause, promote, aid, assist, encourage, allow, or engage
in the operation of any motor vehicle in the city, in such a manner that the
motor vehicle passes any stop sign facing the motor vehicle and installed,
located and maintained at any location indicated in the following schedule of
stop sign locations, without the movement of the motor vehicle being fully and
completely stopped immediately before passing the stop sign and the right of
way yielded to any other motor vehicle at the intersection.
   (B)   The Public Works Department of the city will cause a stop sign to be
installed, located and maintained within the rights-of-way at the intersections
of streets identified in the following schedule, so that the stop sign is
facing motor vehicle traffic approaching the intersection in the direction and
on the street indicated:
STREET INTERSECTION: STOP SIGN FACING MOTOR VEHICLE TRAFFIC APPROACHING
                     INTERSECTION IN A:
STREET INTERSECTION:                  STOP SIGN FACING MOTOR VEHICLE TRAFFIC
                                      APPROACHING INTERSECTION IN A:
Allen Court @ SR 16                   Westerly direction on Allen
Arrowwood @ Shadowhill                Easterly direction on Shadowhill
Bayberry Court @ Sagehill             Easterly direction on Sagehill
Beech Drive @ Homestead               Easterly direction on Beech Drive
Blackstone Court @ Hughes Court       Northerly direction on Blackstone Court
Blackstone Court @ Hughes Court       Southerly direction on Blackstone
Blackstone Court @ McCowan            Northerly direction on Blackstone
Blackstone Court @ McCowan Drive      Southerly direction on Blackstone Court
Bonnie Drive @ Ivybrook Drive         Easterly direction on Bonnie Drive
Bonnie Lane @ Vincent Drive           Southerly direction on Bonnie Lane
Buds Way @ Grand Avenue               Southerly direction on Buds Way
Buttercup @ Mill Stream               Easterly direction on Buttercup
Cardinal Drive @ Keavy Court          Northerly direction on Cardinal Drive
Cardinal Drive @ Meadow Lane          Northerly direction on Cardinal Drive
Cardinal Drive @ Meadow Lane          Southerly direction on Cardinal Drive
Carol Drive @ SR 16                   Easterly direction on Carol Drive
Church Street @ Primrose Drive        Northerly direction on Church Street
Church Street @ Primrose Drive        Southerly direction on Church Street
Church Street @ 4611                  Northerly direction on Church Street
Church Street @ 4702                  Southerly direction on Church Street
Church Street @ Sunset Place          Northerly direction on Church Street
Church Street @ Sunset Place          Southerly direction on Church Street
Church Street in area of 4700 block   Northerly direction on Church Street
Church Street in area of 4700 block   Southwesterly direction on Church Street
Cleveland @ Kohlman                   Westerly direction on Cleveland
Cleveland @ Howard                    Westerly direction on Cleveland
Coachway Court @ Stonehill Drive      Southerly direction on Coachway Court
Colonial Drive @ SR 16                Westerly direction on Colonial Drive
Cottonmill Court @ Shadowhill         Easterly direction on Cottonmill Court
Crawford Drive @ SR 16                Westerly direction on Crawford Drive
Crocus Lane @ Stonehill               Easterly and Westerly direction at Stone
                                      Hill Drive
Daybreak Court @ Lone Oak Drive       Northerly direction on Daybreak Court
Daybreak Court @ Lone Oak Drive       Southerly direction on Daybreak Court
Doris Drive @ SR 16                   Westerly direction on Doris Drive
Droegie                               No sign present
Eggers Lane @ Old Taylor Mill Road    Southeasterly direction on Eggers Lane
Eggers Lane @ Sandman                 Easterly direction on Eggers Lane
Eureka @ Beech Drive                  Easterly direction on Beech Drive
Fairview @ Winona                     Westerly direction on Fairview
Faye Drive @ Church Street            Southerly direction on Faye Drive
Faye Drive @ SR 16                    Westerly direction on Faye Drive
Faye Drive @ Church Street            Westerly direction on Church Street
Faye Drive @ Church Street            Easterly direction on Church Street
Forest Lane @ SR 16                   Easterly direction on Forest Lane
Gail Court @ SR 16                    Westerly direction on Gail Court
Grand Avenue @ Howard                 Westerly direction on Grand Avenue
Grand Avenue @ Howard                 Easterly direction on Grand Avenue
Grey Oaks Drive @ Huntersridge        Southerly direction on Grey Oaks Drive
Heatherstone @ Valley Square          Northwesterly on Heatherstone
High Ridge Drive @ Creek Ridge Court  Easterly on Creek Ridge Court
High Ridge Drive @ Holly Ridge Court  Easterly on Holly Ridge Court
High Ridge Drive @ Wayman Branch      Easterly direction on High Ridge Drive
Hightop Court @ Taylor Creek          Southwesterly direction on Hightop Court
Hogan                                 No sign present
Homestead @ Oakland Drive             Northerly direction on Homestead
Honeysuckle Drive @ Sandman           Easterly direction on Honeysuckle
Howard @ Cleveland                    Southerly direction on Howard
Howard @ Grand Avenue                 Southern direction on Howard
Howard Avenue @ Grand Avenue          Northern direction on Howard
Hughes Court @ Blackstone Court       Easterly direction on Hughes Court
Huntersridge @ Mapleridge             Westerly direction on Huntersridge
Huntersridge @ Mapleridge             Easterly direction on Huntersridge
Ivy Ridge Drive @ High Ridge Drive    Northeasterly direction on Ivy Ridge
                                      Drive
Ivybrook Drive @ Bonnie Drive         Westerly direction on Ivybrook Drive
Janet Drive @ SR 16                   Easterly direction on Janet Drive
Janet Drive @ SR 16                   Westerly direction on Janet Drive
Jefferson Place @ SR 16               Easterly direction on Jefferson Place
Keavy Court @ Cardinal Drive          Southerly direction on Keavy Court
Keeney Court @ Oakland                Northerly direction on Keeney Court
Kohlman @ Grand Avenue                Northern direction on Kohlman
Lakewood Drive @ Old Taylor Mill Road Easterly direction on Lakewood Drive
Lakewood Drive @ Robertson Road       Westerly direction on Lakewood Drive
Leland Drive @ SR 16                  Westerly direction on Leland Drive
Lone Oak Drive @ Daybreak             Westerly direction on Lone Oak Drive
Lone Oak Drive @ SR 16                Easterly direction on Lone Oak Drive
Lookaway @ Reidlin Drive              No sign present
Lookaway @ Towerview                  Southerly on Lookaway
Mafred Drive @ SR 16                  Westerly direction on Mafred Drive
Manor Lake Drive @ SR 16              Westerly direction on Manor Lake Drive
Mapleridge Drive @ Huntersridge       Southerly direction on Mapleridge
Mapleridge Drive @ McCowan            Northerly direction on Mapleridge Drive
Mapleridge Drive @ McCowan            Southerly direction on Mapleridge Drive
Mapleridge Drive @ Taylor Creek       Northerly direction on Mapleridge Drive
Mason @ SR 177                        Easterly direction on Mason Road
Mason @ Thornton Drive                Easterly direction on Mason Road
Mason @ Thornton Drive                Westerly direction on Mason Road
Mason @ Riedlin Road                  Westerly direction on Mason Road
Mason @ Riedlin Road                  Easterly direction on Mason Road
Mason @ Virginia Court                Easterly direction on Mason Road
Mason @ Virginia Court                Westerly direction on Mason Road
McCowan @ Blackstone Court            Easterly direction on McCowan
McCowan @ Mapleridge                  Westerly direction on McCowan
McCowan @ Mapleridge Drive            Easterly direction on McCowan
McCowan @ Parkland Court              Northerly direction on McCowan
McCowan @ Parkland Court              Southerly direction on McCowan
Meadow Lane @ Cardinal Drive          Westerly direction on Meadow Lane
Meadow Lane @ SR 16                   Westerly direction on Meadow Lane
Mill Stream @ Buttercup               Northerly direction on Mill Stream
Mill Stream @ Buttercup               Southerly direction on Mill Stream
Mill Stream @ Old Taylor Mill Road    Westerly direction on Mill Stream
Mill Stream @ Roselawn                Easterly direction on Mill Stream
Mill Valley Drive @ Shadowhill        Westerly direction on Mill Valley Drive
Mill Valley Drive @ Shadowhill        Easterly direction on Mill Valley Drive
Mill Valley Drive @ SR 16             Easterly direction on Mill Valley Drive
Mill Valley Drive @ Stonehill Drive   Northerly direction on Mill Valley Drive
Mill Valley Drive @ Stonehill Drive   Southerly direction on Mill Valley Drive
Mill Valley Drive @ Sunset            Southerly direction on Mill Valley Drive
(south)
Millstone @ Valley Square             Westerly on Millstone
Millstone @ Valley Square             Easterly on Millstone
Oak @ SR 16                           Southerly direction on Oak
Oak @ SR 16                           Westerly direction on Oak
Oakland @ Woodland Drive              Easterly direction on Oakland
Oakland Drive @ Roselawn              Westerly direction on Oakland
Oakland Drive @ Roselawn              Easterly direction on Oakland
Old Taylor Mill Road @ Sandman Drive  Northerly direction on Old Taylor Mill
                                      Road
Old Taylor Mill Road @ Sandman Drive  Southerly direction on Old Taylor Mill
                                      Road
Old Taylor Mill Road @ Wayman Branch  Northerly direction on Old Taylor Mill
                                      Road
Old Taylor Mill Road @ SR 16 (south)  Southeasterly direction on Old Taylor
                                      Mill Road
Old Taylor Mill Road @ Wayman Branch  Southerly direction on Old Taylor Mill
                                      Road
Parkland Court @ McCowan              Southerly direction on Parkland
Primrose @ Church Street              Easterly direction on Church Street
Red Bud Drive @ SR 16                 Easterly direction on Red Bud Drive
Reidlin @ Grand Avenue                Northern direction on Reidlin
Reidlin Drive @ Mason                 Southwesterly direction on Reidlin Drive
Remkes lot @ SR 16                    Easterly direction on Remkes lot
Ridge @ Short Mason                   Easterly direction on Ridge
Ridgeside Drive @ Taylor Creek Drive  Southerly direction on Ridgeside Drive
Ridgeway Drive @ SR 16                Westerly direction on Ridgeway Drive
Robertson Road @ Old Taylor Mill Road Easterly direction on Robertson Road
Roselawn @ Mill Stream                Southerly direction on Roselawn
Roselawn @ Mill Stream                Northerly direction on Roselawn
Roselawn @ Oakland                    Northerly direction on Roselawn
Rosewood Drive @ SR16                 Easterly direction on Rosewood Drive
Rust Drive @ Holdsbranch              Southerly direction on Rust Drive
Saddlebrook Drive @ SR 16             Westerly direction on Saddlebrook Drive
Sagehill @ Stonehill Drive            Southerly direction on Stonehill Drive
Sandman @ Farm Apartments             Easterly direction on Sandman
Sandman Drive @ Old Taylor Mill Road  Southeasterly direction on Sandman Drive
Shadow Hill @ Cotton Mill             Southerly direction on Cotton Mill
Shadowhill @ Mill Valley Drive        Southerly direction on Shadowhill
Sharon Drive @ SR 16                  Easterly direction on Sharon Drive
Short Mason @ SR 16                   Westerly direction on Short Mason
St. Matthew's Circle (north) @ SR 16  Easterly direction on St. Matthew's
                                      Circle
St. Matthew's Circle (south) @ SR 16  Easterly direction on St. Matthew's
                                      Circle
Stone Hill @ Old Taylor Mill Road     Westerly direction on Stone Hill
Stonehill Drive @ Coachway Court      Easterly direction on Stonehill Drive
Stonehill Drive @ Coachway Court      Westerly direction on Stonehill Drive
Stonehill Drive @ Mill Valley Drive   Easterly direction on Stonehill Drive
Stonehill Drive @ Sagehill            Easterly direction on Sagehill
Stonehill Drive @ Sagehill            Westerly direction on Sagehill
Stoneledge @ Valley Square            Northerly direction on Stoneledge
Sunset (south) @ SR 16                Easterly direction on Sunset
Sunset Place @ Church Street          Westerly direction on Sunset Place
Sunset Place @ Church Street          Easterly direction on Sunset Place
Taylor Creek @ Maple Ridge            Easterly direction on Taylor Creek
Taylor Creek @ Old Taylor Mill Road   Southeasterly direction on Taylor Creek
Taylor Creek Drive @ Ridgeside Drive  Easterly direction on Taylor Creek Drive
Taylor Creek Drive @ Ridgeside Drive  Westerly direction on Taylor Creek Drive
Thornton @ Mason                      Southerly direction on Thornton
Valley Square Drive @ SR 16           Easterly direction on Valley Square Drive
Valley View (South)                   Easterly direction on Valley
Vincent Drive @ Bonnie Lane           Northeasterly direction on Vincent Drive
Vincent Drive @ Bonnie Lane           Southwesterly direction on Vincent Drive
Vincent Drive @ Old Taylor Mill Road  Northeasterly direction on Vincent Drive
Virginia Court                        No sign present
Virginia @ Mason                      Northerly direction on Virginia
Walnut @ SR 16                        Westerly direction on Walnut
Wayman Branch @ Old Taylor Mill Road  Northeasterly direction on Wayman Branch
                                      Southeasterly direction on that portion
Wayman Branch Road @ High Ridge Drive of Wayman Branch Road that extends from
                                      the intersection in a northeasterly
                                      direction and is a dead-end street
Wayman Road @ High Ridge              Easterly direction on Wayman Road
Wayman Road @ High Ridge              Westerly direction on Wayman Road
Whaley @ Old Taylor Mill Road         Southerly direction on Whaley
Wilson @ Mason Road                   Southeasterly direction on Wilson Road
Winona                                No sign present
Winston Hill Drive @ SR 16            Easterly direction on Winston Hill Drive
Wischer Drive @ SR 16                 Westerly direction on Wischer Drive
Wolf Road @ SR 16                     Westerly direction on Wolf Road
Woodland Drive @ Oakland              Southerly direction on Woodland Drive
Woodland Drive @ Oakland              Northerly direction on Woodland Drive
Woodland Drive @ Winston Hill Drive   Northerly direction on Woodland Drive
 
(Ord. 120 (8-27-97), passed 8-27-97; Am. Ord. 126 (10-8-97), passed 10-8-97;
Am. Ord. 133 (4-22-98), passed 4-22-98; Am. Ord. 141 (12-9-98), passed 12-9-98;
Am. Ord. 145 (2-24-99), passed 2-24-99; Am. Ord. 155(10-13-99), passed 10-13-
99; Am. Ord. 187(5-22-02), passed 5-22-02; Am. Ord. 193(9-25-02), passed 9-25-
02; Am. Ord. 208(4-28-04), passed 4-28-04; Am. Ord. 218(10-13-04), passed 10-
13- 04; Am. Ord. 249(11-20-07), passed 11-20-07; Am. Ord. 261(11-12-08), passed
11-12-08; Am. Ord. 287(01-09-2013), passed 1-9-13; Am. Ord. 289(02-13-2013),
passed 2-13-13; Am. Ord. 306(05-13-2015), passed 5-13-15; Am. Ord. 319(5-10-
2017), passed 5-10-17) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   No person shall cause, permit, aid, assist, encourage, or engage in the
operation of a motor vehicle on those portions of the following streets except
in the direction indicated:
 
Street           Location                           Direction Ord. No. Date
Blue Rock                                           North     140      10-21-98
Church Street    Between Faye Drive on the east and East      181      1-9-02
                 Winston Avenue on the west
Cleveland Avenue Between Howard Street and Kollman  West      1-6-85   - -85
                 Street
Sharon Drive     That portion that is on the        Northeast 140      10-21-98
                 northeast side of Blue Rock
 
(Am. Ord. 269(05-12-2010), passed 5-12-10)
Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking prohibited at all times
   
II.   Handicapped parking designations
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES.
   No person shall cause, permit, aid, assist, encourage, or engage in the
location of a parked motor vehicle on any portion of the following described
sections of streets within the city:
Street Side Location Ord. No. Date
Street          Side           Location         Ord. No.         Date
Allen Court     North          Entire street    28 (9-11-91)     9-11-91
Blackstone      West           Entire street    217 (10-13-04)   10-13-04
Court
Blue Lake Drive East           Entire Street    28 (9-11-91)     9-11-91
                               Entire street
                               along Lot 3,
Bonnie Drive                  Block A of Oak   66 (8-24-94)     8-24-94
                               Grove
                               Subdivision
Bonnie Lane     Northeast      Entire Street    194 (11-20-02)   11-20-02
                Northwest
Carol Drive     North          Entire street    128 (1-14-98)    1-14-98
Church Street   South          Across from      28 (9-11-91)     9-11-91
                               Primrose
Cleveland                      Between Howard   1-6-85; Am. Ord.
Avenue          North          Street and       28 (9-11-91)     - -85; 9-11-91
                               Kollman Street
                               More than 260
                               feet east of
Cleveland                      intersection
Avenue          Both           with Howard      64 (4-27-94)     4-27-94
                               Avenue and west
                               of intersection
                               with Forest Lane
                               Within 110 feet
Cleveland                      east of
Avenue          North          intersection     64 (4-27-94)     4-27-94
                               with Howard
                               Avenue
                               Within 75 feet
Cleveland                      east of
Avenue          South          intersection     64 (4-27-94)     4-27-94
                               with Howard
                               Avenue
Colonial Court  North          Entire street    28 (9-11-91)     9-11-91
Doris Drive     North          Entire street    1-6-85; Am. Ord. - -85; 8-18-88
                                                3-8-88
                               Between a point
                               in the south
                               right-of-way
Faye Drive      South and West line in Faye     1-6-85           - -85
                               Drive 520.7 feet
                               east of the
                               centerline of
                               Church Street
                               Between a point
                               in the north
                               right-of-way
                               line of Faye
                               Drive 531.5 feet
                               east of the
                               centerline of
                               Winston Avenue
Faye Drive      North and East (Taylor Mill     1-6-85           - -85
                               Pike) and a
                               point in the
                               east right-of-
                               way line of Faye
                               Drive 313.69
                               feet north of
                               the centerline
                               of Church Street
Grey Oaks Drive North          Entire street    217 (10-13-04)   10-13-04
High Top Court  West           Entire street    28 (9-11-91)     9-11-91
High Top Court  East           Within cul-de-   28 (9-11-91)     9-11-91
                               sac
                               On the side
                               opposite and
                               within five feet
Howard Dr.                    of the motor     207 (4-14-04)    4-14-04
                               vehicle
                               driveways of
                               4808 and 4810
                               Howard Drive
Hughes Ct.      South          Entire street    217 (10-13-04)   10-13-04
Hunters Ridge   South          Entire street    217 (10-13-04)   10-13-04
Drive
                               Within 50 feet
Janet Drive     North          of Taylor Mill   1-6-85           - -85
                               Road
Janet Drive     North          In Winston Park  28 (9-11-91)     9-11-91
                               area
Janet Drive     South          Within cul-de-   28 (9-11-91)     9-11-91
                               sac
                                                1-6-85; Am. Ord. - -85; 8-18-88
Janet Drive     South          Entire street    3-8-88; Am. Ord. 9-11-91
                                                28 (9-11-91)
Knollwood       North          Entire street    28 (9-11-91)     9-11-91
Avenue
Kollman Avenue  East           Entire street    28 (9-11-91)     9-11-91
                               Between Grand
Kollman Avenue  West           Avenue and       28 (9-11-91)     9-11-91
                               Cleveland Avenue
Look Away Drive East           Entire street    28 (9-11-91)     9-11-91
Look Away Drive West           Within cul-de-   28 (9-11-91)     9-11-91
                               sac
Look Away Drive West           Within 50 feet   28 (9-11-91)     9-11-91
                               of the end
McCowan Dr.     North          Entire street    217 (10-13-04)   10-13-04
Maple Ridge     North          Entire Street    28 (9-11-91)     9-11-91
Drive
                               Between Taylor
                               Mill Road and
Mason Road      ---            Reidlin Road and 21 (6-12-91)     6-12-91
                               within 25 feet
                               of guardrails
                               Between
Oakland Drive   Southeast      Homestead Drive  256 (6-11-08)    6-11-08
                               and Oakland
                               Drive
Parkland Ct.    West           Entire street    217 (10-13-04)   10-13-04
                                                1-6-85;
                               Within 30 feet   Am. Ord. 28(9-   - -85;
Primrose Court  South          of Church Street 11-91);          9-11-91;
                                                Am. Ord. 352(12- 12-11-19
                                                11-201 9)
Ridgeside Court West           Entire street    28 (9-11-91)     9-11-91
Ridgeside Court East           Within cul-de-   28 (9-11-91)     9-11-91
                               sac
Rockdale Lane   North          Entire street    28 (9-11-91)     9-11-91
Rockdale Lane   South          Within 50 feet   28 (9-11-91)     9-11-91
                               of the end
                               Between Oakland
Roselawn Drive  North          Drive and        1-8-88           9-8-88
                               Millstream
Rosewood        Either         Entire street    170 (3-14-01)    3-14-01
Saddlebrook     North          Entire Street    28 (9-11-91)     9-11-91
Drive
Saddlebrook     South          Within cul-de-   28 (9-11-91)     9-11-91
Drive                          sac
                               Within 200 feet
Sharon Drive    North          of Taylor Mill   1-6-85           - -85
                               Road
Sharon Drive    South          Entire street    1-6-85; Am. Ord. - -85
                                                28 (9-11-91)
Sunset Drive    South          Entire street    28 (9-11-91)     9-11-91
Sunset Drive    North          Within 50 feet   28 (9-11-91)     9-11-91
                               of end of street
                               Between Old
Taylor Creek    North          Taylor Mill Road 66 (8-24-94)     8-24-94
                               and Hightop
                               Court
Towerview Drive West           Entire street    28 (9-11-91)     9-11-91
Valleyview Lane North          Entire street    28 (9-11-91)     9-11-91
                               Within cul-de-
Valleyview Lane South          sac and within   28 (9-11-91)     9-11-91
                               50 feet of end
                               of street
West Grand      North          Entire street    28 (9-11-91)     9-11-91
Avenue
                               Within cul-de-
West Grand      South          sac and within   28 (9-11-91)     9-11-91
Avenue                         50 feet of end
                               of street
Whaley Road     Both           Entire street    28 (9-11-91)     9-11-91
Winona Drive    West           Entire street    28 (9-11-91)     9-11-91
Winston Hill    Both           Between Woodland 153 (7-28-99)    7-28-99
Drive                          Drive and SR 16
Woodland Drive  Both           Within 50 feet   28 (9-11-91)     9-11-91
                               of end of street
 
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Parking near intersections, see §
72.16
SCHEDULE II. HANDICAPPED PARKING DESIGNATIONS.
   The following areas are hereby designated as handicapped parking places.
They shall be so designated by signs which shall be installed and maintained by
the department of public works:
 
Street           Side  Location                      Ord. No.      Date
Cleveland Avenue South Abutting 609 Cleveland Avenue 38 (5-13-92)  5-13-92
Fairview Avenue  South Abutting 206 Fairview Avenue  38 (5-13-92)  5-13-92
Kollman Avenue   West  Abutting 4819 Kollman Avenue  83 (9-13-95)  9-13-95
Kollman Avenue   West  Abutting 4835 Kollman Avenue  91 (4-3-96)   4-3-96
Primrose         North Abutting 521 Primrose         64 (10-25-00) 10-25-00
 
Penalty, see §
72.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   LANDLORDS AND TENANTS
      
92.   LITTERING
      
93.   NUISANCES
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
95.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
      
96.   MINORS
      
97.   SECURITY DEVICES
      
98.   PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS AND RECREATION SYSTEM
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Kenton County ordinance 840.11 adopted by reference
   
90.02   Chickens or fowl in residential zones
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 KENTON COUNTY ORDINANCE 840.11 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Kenton County Ordinance 840.11 is hereby adopted by reference as the
animal control code to provide rules, regulations, prohibitions and penalties
for the custody and maintenance of dogs and other animals in the city.
   (B)   The city animal control code shall be available for public inspection
in the offices of the City Clerk/Tax Collector.
(Ord. 357(04-08-2020), passed 4-8-20)
§ 90.02 CHICKENS OR FOWL IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   (A)   Raising chickens.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to keep or raise chickens for sale or profit
in the city in any residential zone.
      (2)   It shall be lawful to keep or raise up to six chickens in the city
for personal, family, or home use.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to use, operate, or maintain any coop, hutch,
runway, or enclosure for chickens within 75 feet of any main living dwelling
house, except the dwelling house on the same premises.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person to raise a rooster in the city.
It shall be unlawful to let any chickens run at large; and it shall be unlawful
to keep or raise chickens or to maintain any coop, hutch, building, or
enclosure for them in an unclean or unsanitary condition. It shall be unlawful
to process any chickens in public view.
   (B)   Raising fowl prohibited. It shall be unlawful to keep or raise
turkeys, guineas, ducks, or geese in any residential zone in the city.
   (C)   Animals or fowl running at large. It shall be unlawful to permit any
animals or fowl to run at large on the streets of the city or permit the same
to trespass upon the land of another.
(Ord. 377(05-11-2022), passed 5-11-22) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The specific civil fine that shall be imposed for each separate
violation of §
90.02 in the event that a citation is not contested is hereby established at
$100 for a first violation, $250 for a second occurrence of the same violation,
and $500 for the third and subsequent occurrence of the same violation, plus
the costs of collection, including, without limitation, court costs and
attorney fees approved by the City Commission and City Administrative Officer
on a case-by-case basis.
   (B)   The maximum civil fine that may be imposed for each separate violation
of §
90.02 is hereby established at $500 for a first violation, $750 for a second
occurrence of the same violation, and $1,000 for the third and each subsequent
occurrence of the same violation plus the costs of collection, including,
without limitation, court costs and attorney fees.
(Ord. 377(05-11-2022), passed 5-11-22)
CHAPTER 91: LANDLORDS AND TENANTS
Section
   
91.01   Adoption of state law by reference; incorporation into city records
   
91.02   Existing transactions
§ 91.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE; INCORPORATION INTO CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   The provisions of KRS 383.505 through 383.715 (the Uniform Residential
Landlord and Tenant Act) are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to
the city.
   (B)   The provisions of KRS 383.505 through 383.715, copies of which
accompany Ordinance 1-7-83, are hereby made a part of the permanent records of
the city.
(Ord. 1-7-83, passed - -83)
§ 91.02 EXISTING TRANSACTIONS.
   Transactions entered into before the effective date hereof and not extended
or renewed on or after that date, and the rights, duties, and interests flowing
from them remain valid and may be terminated, completed, consummated, or
enforced as permitted by law.
(Ord. 1-7-83, passed - -83)
CHAPTER 92: LITTERING
Section
   
92.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
92.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
92.03   Hauling loose material
   
92.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
92.05   Litter on private property
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley, or other
public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or foreign matter of any
kind.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt, or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place shall haul it, or cause it to be hauled in
vehicles provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any of the contents from falling or being thrown, blown, or deposited
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place. Any materials which
fall from, or which are thrown, blown, or deposited from any vehicle upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place, shall be removed immediately by
the person in charge of the vehicle.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks, or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city whether owned by that person or not.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and fined not more than $500. Each day the violation is committed
or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
93.03   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
93.04   Reserved
   
93.05   Parks owned by City of Covington
   
93.06   Nuisance created by others
   
93.07   Suspension of license
   
93.08   Weeds, grass along streets
   
93.09   Property maintenance
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Statutory-reference:
   Private nuisances, see KRS 411.500 - 411.570
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "AUTOMOBILE PARTS." Any portion or parts of any motor driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   "INOPERATIVE CONDITION." Unable to move under its own power due to defective
or missing parts, and which has remained in such condition for a period of not
less than ten consecutive days.
   "MOTOR VEHICLE." Any style or type of motor driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   "NUISANCE." Public nuisance.
   "SCRAP METAL." Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum,
or any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   "UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE." In a dangerous condition; having defective or
missing parts; or in such a condition generally as to be unfit for further use
as a conveyance.
§ 93.02 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of Kentucky as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided
in this chapter or in accordance with any other provision of law.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control or
management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance to develop
thereon. The following conditions are declared to be public nuisances:
   (A)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street. Any tree, stack, or other
object standing in such a condition that it will, if the condition is allowed
to continue, endanger the life, limb, or property of, or cause hurt, damage, or
injury to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways adjacent
thereto, by the falling thereof or of parts thereof.
   (B)   Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage, or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare, or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful
enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger
that it will catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents,
or insects, or blow rubbish into any street, sidewalk, or property of another.
   (C)   Noxious odors or smoke. Emission into the surrounding atmosphere of
odor, dust, smoke, or other matter which renders ordinary use or physical
occupation of other property in the vicinity uncomfortable or impossible. It
shall also be unlawful for any furnace, incinerator, or heating unit to emit
smoke, soot, or ashes of a kind or degree which could damage property or
constitute a health hazard to the people of the city. ('78 Code, 1020.1, § III)
(Ord. 35-1960, passed 4-28-60)
   (D) Noise. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
operate or cause to be operated any whistle, rattle, bell, gong, clapper,
hammer, drum, horn, player piano, radio, calliope, phonograph, or other sound-
producing or sound-amplifying instrument, or by calling, shouting, or in any
other way or manner create noise or sound in such a manner as to disturb the
peace and quiet of a neighborhood or to interfere with the transaction of
business or other ordinary pursuits. Nothing herein shall be construed to
affect the usual and reasonable operation of railroads, electric railways, or
motor buses; prohibit the reasonable use of automobiles and ordinary noises
attendant thereto; athletic contests; or lawful public meetings, parades, or
celebrations. ('78 Code, 1020.l, § VIII) (Ord. 35-1960, passed 4-28-60)
   (E) Storage of explosives. The storage of explosive material which creates a
safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity.
   (F) Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered, or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation, or vault situated upon private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place.
   (G) Obstructions to streets, sidewalks, and drainage. Property owners shall
not obstruct streets, sidewalks or drainage in any way. All trees, shrubbery,
or other naturally occurring or unintentionally placed elements that interfere
with the use, construction, or maintenance of streets, sidewalks, drainage or
neighboring property shall be removed.
   (H) Keeping of animals. The failure to keep an animal's pen, yard, lot, or
other enclosure in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive
odors.
   (I) Junk; scrap metal; motor vehicles. The storage of motor vehicles in an
inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for further use, automobile parts,
or scrap metal within the city limits except on premises authorized by the city
for such purposes.
   (J)   The operation of any ATV and/or dirt bikes within the city on any day,
before 9:00 a.m. or after 6:00 p.m. and on a lot or parcel of real estate less
than ten acres in size. An ATV and dirt bike shall have the same meaning
provided therefore in KRS 189.010, which is a motor vehicle used for
recreational off-road use. There is no restriction on the legitimate use of
ATVs for farm or gardening use.
(Ord. 177(7-11-01), passed 7-11-01; Am. Ord. 397(09-11-2024), passed 9-11-24)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 RESERVED.
§ 93.05 PARKS OWNED BY CITY OF COVINGTON.
   (A)   It is hereby declared that the public parks owned and operated by the
Recreation Department of the City of Covington, Kentucky, and located within
the corporate limits of the City of Taylor Mill have been operated and
maintained so as to constitute a public nuisance which adversely affects the
health, safety, and general welfare of the residents of Taylor Mill.
   (B)   In order to eliminate any such future public nuisance as described in
division (A), it is hereby ordered that the parks shall be closed whenever the
following provisions are not complied with:
      (1)   The sale, purchase, and consumption of alcoholic beverages of every
kind and description are hereby prohibited in any of the parks.
      (2)   Trash barrels or receptacles of sufficient size and number are to
be provided in each of the parks.
      (3)   Whenever an inspection by the officials of the city of Taylor Mill
reveals that the fields are so dry as to cause dust to accumulate, the owners,
operators, lessors, or managers of the parks are hereby ordered to water the
fields prior to any athletic activity.
      (4)   Sufficient toilet facilities and drinking fountains are to be
provided to meet the demands of the public in the parks.
      (5)   Such parks are to be closed on Sunday throughout the year except by
special permits issued and authorized by the City Commission.
('78 Code, 1020.1, § XIII) (W.P. Ord. 2-1964, passed - -64; W.P. Ord. 1-1967,
passed 1-3-67) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant, or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests, or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care ought to have become aware of.
§ 93.07 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Whenever it is brought to the attention of the City Commission that a
nuisance exists and the City Commission deems that there is an immediate threat
to the public health, safety, welfare, the City Commission may by majority vote
suspend the license of any person conducting business upon the premises where
the nuisance exists.
   (B)   The Clerk/Tax Collector shall cause notice of the suspension to be
served personally upon the licensee or at the premises where the nuisance
exists.
   (C)   Upon application of the licensee, the City Commission may remove the
suspension upon such terms as it may direct.
§ 93.08 WEEDS, GRASS ALONG STREETS.
   (A)   As used in this section, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings indicated:
   "NOBODY." No person.
   "PERSON." Any human being, or any combination or association thereof, in the
form of a corporation, partnership, joint venture, unincorporated association,
or otherwise.
   (B)   Nobody shall cause, permit, promote, allow, assist, aid, encourage or
engage in the growth of any weeds or grass to a height in excess of six (6)
inches, within one hundred fifty (150) feet of any road or street within the
city.
   (C)   In the event of a violation of subsection (B), the following
administrative remedies shall be available to the city in addition to any
criminal remedies, either or both of which may be instituted and pursued by the
city separately, jointly, simultaneously, concurrently, or consecutively:
      (1)   Notice of this section and the violation of this section and the
opportunity for a procedural due process hearing in regard to the existence of
a violation shall be mailed by the city to the owners of the real estate upon
which the violation has occurred. The notice shall be mailed by certified mail,
return receipt requested, according to the names and addresses of the owners
indicated in the last deed recorded in the office of the Kenton County Court
Clerk.
      (2)   The city may enter upon the real estate upon which a violation has
occurred, and cause the violation to be eliminated:
         (a)   When within fourteen (14) days after the mailing of a notice
described in subsection (1), the violation has not been eliminated; or a due
process hearing has not been requested, or
         (b)   When the existence of the violation has been determined by the
City Commission through a procedural due process hearing and the violation has
not been eliminated within fourteen (14) days after the hearing.
      (3)   In the event the city must enter upon the real estate to abate a
violation, the owners of real estate shall be jointly and severally liable to
the city for the reasonable cost of abatement. As security for payment, the
city shall have a lien upon the real estate described herein.
(Ord. 1 (1-3-90), passed 3-8-90)
§ 93.09 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No owner, occupant or person having control or management of any
land within the city shall permit a public nuisance, health hazard or source of
filth to develop thereon through the accumulation of rubbish, or the excessive
growth of weeds or grass.
      (2)   No owner of any property within the city shall permit any structure
upon the property to become unfit and unsafe for human habitation, occupancy,
or use, or permit conditions to exist in the structure which are dangerous or
injurious to the health or safety of the occupants of the structure, the
occupants of neighboring structures or other residents of the city.
   (B)   Rebuttable presumption. For the purpose of this section, a growth of
weeds or grass in excess of 10 inches above the surface of the ground, on any
lot or parcel of real estate which is developed with the public utilities of
water, electricity and sewers, shall be presumed to be a public nuisance,
health hazard and source of filth .
   (C)   Standards and procedures for the enforcement of the provisions of
Kentucky Statutes.
      (1)   Remediation order. Whenever a Citation Officer of the city observes
any violation of Kentucky Statutes, he or she shall cause to be issued to
everybody in violation thereof, a written remediation order, which shall
include:
         (a)   A description of the violation observed by the Code Enforcement
Officer;
         (b)   An address or other description of the real estate upon which
the violation was observed;
         (c)   An order to eliminate the violation within a specified and
reasonable period of time, which shall be no less than seven consecutive
calendar days after the date of the remediation order.
   (D)   Delivery of remediation order. The written remediation order required
hereby shall be delivered to the person to whom it is issued by either:
      (1)   Personal delivery;
      (2)   Certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last know address
thereof;
      (3)   Posting in a conspicuous place in, upon or about the structure or
property which is the subject of the remediation order;
      (4)   Leaving a copy at that person’s usual place of residence with
anyone residing therein who is over 18 years of age and who is informed of the
contents of the remediation order.
   (E)   Civil citation. In the event that compliance with the remediation
order isn’t completed within the time specified therein, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall issue a civil citation as observed by the Code Enforcement
Officer, to everybody in violation thereof.
   (F)   Elimination of violations by the city. In the event that any violation
of KRS 381.220 continues without the completion of the remediation described in
the order of the Citation Officer, the city shall cause all or any part of the
ordered remediation to be completed; and:
      (1)   The city shall have a lien against the property for the reasonable
value of labor and materials used in remedying the violation; and the affidavit
of the Citation Officer shall constitute prima facie evidence of the amount of
the lien and the regularity of the proceedings, and shall be recorded in the
office of the Kenton County Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all persons from
the time of its recording and shall bear interest thereafter at the rate of 8%
per annum until paid. The lien created shall take precedence over all other
subsequent liens, except state, county, school board and city taxes, and may be
enforced by judicial proceedings; and
      (2)   The owner of any property upon which a lien has been attached shall
be personally liable for the amount of the lien, including all interest, civil
penalties, and other charges, including, without limitation, court costs and
reasonable attorney fees, and the city may bring a civil action against the
owner and shall have the same remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt
owed.
   (G)   A violation of this section occurs upon any noncompliance with any
provision of this section, by wither act or omission; and each and every
separate noncontinuing occurrence thereof, and watch and every day of every
continuing occurrence thereof is a separate violation of this section.
(Ord. 177(7-11-01), passed 7-11-01)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil offense. Each separate violation of this chapter constitutes a
civil offense; and, pursuant to the requirements of KRS 65.8808, the penalties
to be imposed upon persons determined to have violated this chapter are hereby
established as follows:
      (1)   The specific civil fine that shall be imposed for each separate
violation of this chapter in the event that a citation for that violation is
not contested is hereby established at $100 for a first violation, $250 for a
second occurrence of the same violation, and $500 for the third and each
subsequent occurrence of the same violation, plus the costs of collection,
including, without limitation, court costs and attorney fees approved by the
City Commission and City Administrator on a case-by-case basis.
   (B)   Criminal offense. Each violation of this chapter shall be a
misdemeanor for which everybody convicted thereof in a court of competent
jurisdiction shall be sentenced to pay a criminal fine not to exceed the
maximum amount of $500 as set forth in KRS 534.050(2)(a) or a term of
imprisonment not to exceed the maximum period of 12 months as set forth in KRS
532.090(1), or both.
(Ord. 177(7-11-01), passed 7-11-01; Am. Ord. 397 (09-11-2024), passed 9-11-24)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
94.01   Opening permit required
   
94.02   Application and cash deposit
   
94.03   Restoration of pavement
   
94.04   Barriers around excavations
   
94.05   Warning lights
   
94.06   Sidewalk construction
Road and Bridge Projects
   
94.15   Public meeting required
   
94.16   Notice requirements
   
94.17   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
94.18   Meeting to be held prior to construction
   
94.19   Separate meeting for each project not required
   
94.20   Exemptions from meeting requirement
Obstructions
   
94.30   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
94.31   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
94.32   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
94.33   Removal of ice and snow
   
94.34   Streets to be free of debris during excavation or repair or demolition
of buildings
   
94.35   Inoperable motor vehicles
   
94.36   Benches and other types of seats
Identification of Real Estate
   
94.45   Housing numbers to be displayed
Sidewalk and Culvert Maintenance
   
94.55   Definitions
   
94.56   Sidewalks and culverts constructed within public rights-of-way to
conform to specifications
   
94.57   Owner of property abutting sidewalk or culvert to aid sidewalk or
culvert in conforming
   
94.58   Notice of nonconformance; hearing
   
94.59   Findings of City Public Works Commissioner; lien
   
94.60   Appeal
Street Maintenance
   
94.75   Adopted by reference
 
   
94.99   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 94.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the City Commission or other authorized city official.
Application shall be made on a form prescribed by the Commission, giving the
exact location of the proposed opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth
to be excavated, and such other facts as may be provided for. The permit shall
be issued only after a cash deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration
has been posted with the City Commission or other authorized city official,
conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of excavations and
restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 94.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the City Commission or
other authorized city official, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and
specifications approved by the City Commission.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make such fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
94.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate city fund, except such part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of such services performed by the city
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the City Clerk/Tax Collector or other
proper administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from
the permittee.
§ 94.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized city official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city. He shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the City Commission for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the City Commission shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the city in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall contract therefor for a period not exceeding
one year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who shall furnish good and
sufficient sureties for the faithful performance of the work. The City
Commission may make separate contracts for the different kinds of work with
different parties.
Statutory-reference:
   Sidewalks; construction along public roads; specifications, see KRS 178.290
   Sidewalks; ramps for wheelchairs, see KRS 66.660
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 94.15 PUBLIC MEETING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state-derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street, or bridge, it shall provide an opportunity to the public to
provide input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS
61.823(2) to (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax
moneys for road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 94.16 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state-derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a specific
item on the public meeting agenda.
(KRS 174.100 (l))
§ 94.17 PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   (A) At the meeting, the city shall allow any person to speak with regard to
any proposed project, any project which he or she feels should be built or done
which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of projects, and any
other matter related to road or bridge projects.
   (B) The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100 (1),(2))
§ 94.18 MEETING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state-derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting as provided herein
has been held.
(KRS 174.100 (3))
§ 94.19 SEPARATE MEETING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting for
each project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
meeting, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100 (4))
§ 94.20 EXEMPTIONS FROM MEETING REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or man-caused disasters
nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100 (5))
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 94.30 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.31 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.32 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person in charge or control of any premises abutting a city street, shall
fail to remove with reasonable promptness from the sidewalk area along such
premises, all debris, rubbish, automobile bodies, parts, or accessories,
litter, or other material which may at any time accumulate or be deposited
thereon from any cause whatsoever. Each day's failure to remove the material
shall constitute a separate offense. For the purpose of this section "SIDEWALK
AREA" shall mean the entire area between the property line and the established
or presumed curbline.
('78 Code, 621.3, § I) Penalty, see §
94.99
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see
Ch. 92
§ 94.33 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his premises free and clear of snow and ice to the extent
feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove therefrom all
snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions,
accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily not exceed
12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and ice may
have accumulated.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.34 STREETS TO BE FREE OF DEBRIS DURING EXCAVATION OR REPAIR OR DEMOLITION
OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation, either as owner or contractor, who
hereafter builds or causes to be built any building or other structure adjacent
to a public sidewalk, street, alley, or other thoroughfare of the city, shall
so erect the building or structure, or make excavations therefor in such a
manner so as not to permit any earth, debris, materials, or foreign substances
of any kind to be deposited on any sidewalk, street, alley, or public
thoroughfare.
   (B)   If it is necessary in the construction of or excavation for any such
building or structure to haul or cause to be hauled away any such earth,
debris, materials, or foreign substances, the hauling shall be carried out in
such a manner as not to permit any of the aforementioned matters to fall from
the hauling vehicle upon the sidewalks, streets, alleys, or public
thoroughfares of the city from the point of construction or excavation to the
point of destination.
('78 Code, 621.3, § II) (W.P. Ord. 10-1948, passed 5-3-48)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in the destruction,
alteration, repair, removal, or demolition of any building or other structure
whatsoever in the city to throw, cast down, drop, or cause or permit to fall
any timber, iron, stone, brick, plaster, shingles, roofing, shavings, chips, or
other building material, rubbish, or debris of any kind into or upon any of the
streets, sidewalks, alleys, or other public ways or places of the city.
However, it shall be lawful for any person engaged as aforesaid, to lower and
remove from such structure any of the aforesaid substances by the careful use
of machinery, elevators, pulleys, buckets, baskets, slides, troughs, or other
such appliances as may be deemed by the Building Inspector to be the best
adapted to insure against injury and annoyance to the public in the use and
enjoyment of such street, alley, or other public way or place.
('78 Code, 1020.1, § V) (Ord. 35-1960, passed 4-28-60)
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.35 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Nobody shall cause, permit, allow, encourage or engage in any parking,
storage, or any other location of an inoperable motor vehicle within the right-
of-way of any public street, road, highway or other public way within the city
unless caused by circumstances beyond the control of the person.
   (B)   Nobody shall cause, permit, allow, encourage or engage in the repair
of any motor vehicle within the right-of-way of any public street, road,
highway or other public way within the city unless caused by circumstances
beyond the control of the person.
(Ord. 19 (2-27-91), passed 2-27-91)
§ 94.36 BENCHES AND OTHER TYPES OF SEATS.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section, the words anybody, everybody and
nobody respectively mean any, every and no human being, or any organization or
combination thereof, in the form of a corporation, partnership, joint venture,
unincorporated, association or otherwise.
   (B)   Prohibitions. Nobody other than the city shall cause, promote, aid,
assist, allow, encourage or engage in the ownership, maintenance, use or
location of any bench or other type of seat within any public right-of-way
within the city.
   (C)   Penalties. Each violation and every other failure to comply with the
provisions of this section shall be a misdemeanor; and each day of the
continuation thereof shall be a separate and distinct offense for which:
      (1)   Criminal penalties. Everybody convicted thereof in a court of
competent jurisdiction shall be sentenced to pay a criminal fine not to exceed
the maximum amount of $500 as set forth in KRS 534.040 (2)(a) or a term of
imprisonment not to exceed the maximum period of 12 months as set forth in KRS
532.090 (1), or both.
      (2)   Civil penalties. Each separate violation of this section is hereby
classified as a civil offense, for which the offender shall be subject to a
civil penalty of $100 for each separate violation, which shall be recovered by
the city in a civil action in the nature of debt, if it isn't paid by the
offender within 30 days after being cited therefore.
(Ord. 219 (12-8-04), passed 12-8-04)
IDENTIFICATION OF REAL ESTATE
§ 94.45 HOUSING NUMBERS TO BE DISPLAYED.
   The owners and occupants of each parcel of real estate within the city shall
cause to be located thereon within ten feet of the street, road, way, or other
means of access to such real estate, a graphic indication not less than two
inches in height, of the number or other designation assigned to the real
estate by the United States Postal Service.
('78 Code, 621.2, § I) Penalty, see §
94.99
SIDEWALK AND CULVERT MAINTENANCE
§ 94.55 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "CITY PUBLIC WORKS COMMISSIONER." That member of the City Commission
designated to have superintendence over the City Department of Public Works,
pursuant to KRS 83A.140 (6).
   "CULVERT." An open pipe for the drainage of water from, through, and beneath
driveways extending from the pavement of streets across the right-of-way
therefor to real estate abutting thereon.
   "PERSON." Any human being, corporation, partnership, joint venture,
unincorporated association, or any combination thereof.
(Ord. 2-4-88, passed 5-12-88)
§ 94.56 SIDEWALKS AND CULVERTS CONSTRUCTED WITHIN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY TO
CONFORM TO SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All sidewalks constructed, maintained, repaired, and reconstructed
upon and within any public right-of-way within the city shall be constructed,
maintained, repaired, and reconstructed according to the sidewalk
specifications of the regulations for subdivisions adopted by the County and
Municipal Planning and Zoning Commission pursuant to KRS Chapter 100.
   (B)   All culverts constructed, maintained, repaired, and reconstructed upon
and within any public right-of-way within the city shall be constructed,
maintained, repaired, and reconstructed so that the drain thereof is at least
eight inches in diameter, and open and unobstructed throughout the width and
length thereof.
§ 94.57 OWNER OF PROPERTY ABUTTING SIDEWALK OR CULVERT TO AID SIDEWALK OR
CULVERT IN CONFORMING.
   Every interested owner shall cause that portion of the sidewalk or culvert
constructed upon and within that side of that portion of the public street or
right-of-way which abuts the real estate in which such person has an interest,
to be constructed, maintained, repaired, and reconstructed to the city
specifications therefor established hereby.
(Ord. 2-4-88, passed 5-12-88)
§ 94.58 NOTICE OF NONCONFORMANCE; HEARING.
   (A)   In the event that any sidewalk or culvert constructed within or upon
any public right-of-way within the city is not constructed, maintained,
repaired, or reconstructed to the condition thereof required hereby, the city
shall cause a written notice thereof to be mailed by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to each person who, according to the records of the County
Clerk, owns any interest in any real estate which abuts upon that side of the
right-of-way in which the subject sidewalk or culvert is located, with a copy
of Ord. 2-4-88, passed 5-12-88, and a notice of the time, date, and place of a
due process hearing in regard thereto, which shall be conducted by the City
Public Works Commissioner at least 30 days after the date such notice was
mailed.
   (B)   The proceedings at the due process hearing required hereby shall
include a visual inspection and photographs of the subject sidewalk or culvert
by the City Public Works Commissioner, and any oral testimony and other
exhibits in regard thereto, which shall be recorded and maintained by the City
Public Works Commissioner, along with the findings and conclusions thereof in
regard to the construction, maintenance, repair, and reconstruction of the
subject sidewalk or culvert to the condition thereof required hereby.
(Ord. 2-4-88, passed 5-12-88)
§ 94.59 FINDINGS OF CITY PUBLIC WORKS COMMISSIONER; LIEN.
   (A)   Upon a finding and conclusion by the City Public Works Commissioner,
from the evidence presented at the due process hearing required hereby, that
the subject sidewalk or culvert has been constructed, repaired, maintained, and
reconstructed to the condition thereof required hereby, there shall be no
further action in regard thereto by the city.
   (B)   Upon a finding and conclusion by the City Public Works Commissioner,
from the evidence presented at such hearing, that the subject sidewalk or
culvert has not been constructed, maintained, repaired, or reconstructed to the
condition thereof required hereby, then the city shall cause the subject
sidewalk or culvert to be repaired and reconstructed to the condition thereof
required hereby. Thereupon, each person who, according to the records of the
County Clerk, owns any interest in any real estate which abuts upon that side
of the right-of-way in which the subject sidewalk or culvert is located, shall
be jointly and severally indebted and liable to the city for the total of all
reasonable costs incurred by the city in the repair and reconstruction of the
subject sidewalk or culvert to the condition required hereby, and all expenses
incurred in the collection of such indebtedness and liability, including
reasonable attorney fees and court costs.
   (C)   In order to secure the payment of the above-mentioned liability,
indebtedness, court costs, and attorney fees, the city shall have a lien upon
the real estate which abuts on that side of the right-of-way in which the
subject sidewalk or culvert is located, and such lien shall be superior to all
other liens thereon, except liens for state and county taxes and assessments.
Such lien shall be enforced by civil action for the foreclosure thereof,
according to law, and a notice of such lien and a description of the real
estate subject thereto shall be recorded by the city in the office of the
County Court Clerk.
(Ord. 2-4-88, passed 5-12-88)
§ 94.60 APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the City Public Works Commissioner
pursuant to the provisions hereof, may appeal such decision to the County
Circuit Court within 30 consecutive calendar days after such decision, by
filing with the Clerk thereof a complaint against the city and causing summons
to issue thereon, with such complaint including allegations of appropriate
facts and a copy of the record of the due process hearing required hereby, or a
transcript thereof, which shall be provided to any person by the City Public
Works Commissioner, within 14 days of any request therefor. In such an appeal,
judicial review shall be limited to a review of the record of the due process
hearing required hereby, and the reasonableness of the decision of the City
Public Works Commissioner based thereon. In the absence of such an appeal in
the time and manner described herein, all decisions of the City Public Works
Commissioner pursuant to the provisions hereof shall become final; and shall
not be subject to any other judicial review.
(Ord. 2-4-88, passed 5-12-88)
STREET MAINTENANCE
§ 94.75 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Attached to Ord. 148 (5-12-99), passed 5-12-99, and incorporated
herein by reference is a schedule of those streets in the city, which have
previously become open to the public by dedication or otherwise, and accepted
for maintenance by the city, but only according to and consistent with the
existing pavement thereof, so that the streets with gravel surfaces will be
maintained with gravel, and the streets with tar and chip surfaces will be
maintained with tar and chip, and streets with blacktop surfaces will be
maintained with blacktop. Concrete streets may be maintained with either
concrete or blacktop. No other street shall be maintained by the city, unless
the other street is hereafter accepted for maintenance by the city, either by
ordinance or otherwise by operation of law.
   (B)   The City Administrative Officer shall cause to be maintained in the
office of the City Clerk, an official schedule of all streets which have been
accepted for maintenance by ordinance of the city, either by ordinance or
otherwise by operation of law.
(Ord. 148 (5-12-99), passed 5-12-99)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be, upon
conviction, guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the terms or provisions of §
94.35 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined for each offense no less than
ten ($10.00) dollars or more than five hundred ($500.00) dollars, or sentenced
to imprisonment for no more than ninety (90) days, according to law, or any
combination of such sentences of fines and imprisonment.
(Ord. 19 (2-27-91), passed 2-27-91)
CHAPTER 95: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
95.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
95.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
95.03   Common fireworks; restrictions on sale
   
95.04   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
95.05   Exempted sales and uses
   
95.06   Destruction of fireworks
Fire Prevention
   
95.20   Blasting permit
   
95.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
Smoke Detectors
   
95.30   Definitions
   
95.31   Smoke detectors required
   
95.32   Type and placement
   
95.33   Installation and maintenance
   
95.34   Supplemental standards
   
95.35   Enforcement
 
   
95.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   As used in this subchapter, "FIREWORKS" means any composition or
device for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by
combustion, deflagration, or detonation, and which meets the definition of
"consumer" fireworks as defined in division (B) or "display" fireworks as
defined in division (D) and as set forth in the U.S. Department of
Transportation's (DOT) hazardous materials regulations. “FIREWORKS” does not
include:
      (1)   Exception number l: Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to said regulations, are not
considered to be fireworks and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times.
      (2)   Exception number 2: Model rockets and model rocket motors designed,
sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models are not
considered to be fireworks.
      (3)   Exception number 3: Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a
mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and saltpeter are not considered as being designed
for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   As used in this subchapter, "CONSUMER FIREWORKS" means fireworks that
are suitable for use by the public, designed primarily to produce visible
effects by combustion, and comply with the construction, chemical composition,
and labeling regulations of the United States Consumer Product Safety
Commission. The types, sizes, and amount of pyrotechnic contents of these
devices are limited as enumerated in this section. Some small devices designed
to produce audible effects are included, such as whistling devices, ground
devices containing 50 mg. or less of explosive composition, and aerial devices
containing 130 mg. or less of explosive composition. Consumer fireworks are
further defined by the Consumer Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R.
Pts 1500 and 1507, are classified as Division 1.4G explosives by the United
States Department of Transportation, and include the following:
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. These devices consist of
a metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition.
Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is produced.
Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed five
grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which contain no
magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are not
included in this category, in accordance with DOT regulations;
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
75 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of colored sparks,
and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This device may be
provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or
plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard
handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than one tube
is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200
grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a
distance of at least one-half inch;
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to 50
grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain. When more than one cone is mounted on a common base, the
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch;
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is produced. May be
spike, base or hand-held. When more than one tube is mounted on a common base,
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch;
         (e)   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or
string. A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel may contain more than
200 grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the wheel revolves,
producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling effect;
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is produced by
the rapidly spinning device;
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is
ignited to make the device function; and
         (h)   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces
white or colored smoke as the primary effect;
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wooden
stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst
of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight;
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability;
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached, which, upon
ignition, lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible
effect is produced at the height of flight;
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to 20
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten "stars" (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several second intervals;
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, "stars," components producing reports containing
up to 130 milligrams of explosive composition per report, or other devices are
propelled into the air. The term "mine" refers to a device with no internal
components containing a bursting charge, and the term "shell" refers to a
device that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in the air. A
mine or shell device may contain more than one tube provided the tubes fire in
sequence upon ignition of one external fuse. The term "cake" refers to a dense-
packed collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical composition including
lift charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed 200 grams. The maximum
quantity of lift charge in any one tube of a mine or shell device shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting charge in any
component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in
the component. The tube remains on the ground; and
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE), or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed one and three-fourths inches. In addition, the maximum quantity of lift
charge in any shell shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of
break or bursting charge in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight
of chemical composition in the shell. The total chemical composition of all the
shells in a kit, including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams. The user
lowers a shell into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fuse
extending out of the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then
reloaded with another shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be
capable of firing twice the number of shells in the kit without failure of the
tube. Each package of multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning
label requirements of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 mg. of pyrotechnic composition. Those used in
aerial devices may contain not more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced;
and
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50 mg.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed in this section are classified as novelties and trick
noisemakers and are not classified as consumer fireworks by the United States
Department of Transportation, and their transportation, storage, retail sale,
possession, sale, and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times.
      (1)   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as the
pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2)   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (3)   Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Devices containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams
of pyrotechnic composition per item.
      (4)   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include:
         (a)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than 16 mg. of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A string
protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper streamers
and producing a small report.
         (b)   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
         (c)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes producing a small report.
         (d)   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
         (e)   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced.
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 mg. may also be used to produce a small report.
A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   As used in this subchapter, "DISPLAY FIREWORKS" means pyrotechnic
devices or large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or audible
effects by combustion, deflagration or detonation. This term includes, but is
not limited to, firecrackers containing more than two grains (130 mg) of
explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than 40 grams of
pyrotechnic composition, and other display pieces which exceed the limits for
classification as "consumer fireworks." Display fireworks are defined by the
Consumer Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. Pts. 1500 and 1507, and
are classified as Class B explosives by the United States Department of
Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   Legality of items.
      (1)   Items described in division (B) are legal for retail sale provided
all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are met.
      (2)   Items described in division (D) are not legal for retail sale but
are legal under permits granted pursuant to §
95.02 for the purposes specified in this chapter for public displays and may be
sold at wholesale as provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) are legal for retail sale provided
all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are met.
(KRS 227.708)
   (F)   Age requirement. No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or
sell any common fireworks listed in KRS 227.702 to any person under sixteen
(16) years of age.
§ 95.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, co-partnership, or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, keep with intent to sell, possess, use, or explode,
any display fireworks, except for the following:
   (A)    (1)   The City Commission, the Chief of the Fire Department, or any
other authorized city official may grant permits for supervised public displays
of fireworks by the city, fair associations, amusement parks, and other
organizations or groups of individuals.
      (2)   Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator to
be approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be
of such character, and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or endanger
any person.
      (3)   "Competent display operator" shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks display. The
competent display operator shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives (ATF) License and have participated as an assistant in firing at
least five public displays. A "competent display operator" is also an employee
possessor. A permit under division (A)(1) of this section shall be issued only
to a competent display operator holding an ATF license.
      (4)   At least one competent display operator shall be on site during
display set-up and firing. This competent display operator shall maintain a
copy of the permit application, as signed by the local authority having
jurisdiction as identified in this section, on site and at all times the
display is in place, and shall be presented on demand of the state fire marshal
or local fire chief. All public displays that require issuance of a permit
shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of National Fire
Protection Association (NFPA) 1123 – Code for Fireworks Display (adopted
edition).
      (5)   Permits shall be filed with the State Fire Marshal at least 15 days
in advance of the date of the display. After this privilege is granted, sales,
possession, use and distribution of fireworks for the display shall be lawful
for that purpose only. No permit granted under this subsection shall be
transferable. For the purposes of this subsection, "public display of
fireworks" shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or pyrotechnic
materials before a proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors.
      (6)   Any person remaining within the display area shall be identified as
licensed by the ATF, or an employee thereof, or be an assistant in training to
become a competent display operator. All persons remaining within the display
area shall be at least 18 years of age.
      (7)   The Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction with recommendation from the State Fire Marshal shall promulgate
administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A to administer the
provisions of this section. The regulations shall address the process by which
permits are issued and any other procedures that are reasonably necessary to
effectuate this section.
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms
and Explosives, if the sale is to the person holding a display permit as
outlined in subsection (A) of this section. The permit holder shall present the
permit along with other verifiable identification at the time of sale.
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.
   (D)   The sale and use in emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation, and highway use.
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads.
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports.
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations.
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-partnership,
non-profit, or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling
at retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing or using consumer fireworks
as defined in §
95.01(B) and as permitted pursuant to KRS 227.715.
(KRS 227.710) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 COMMON FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS ON SALE.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
93.02, the consumer fireworks described in §
93.01(B) may be offered for sale, sold at retail, or kept with the intent to
sell, only if the requirements of this section are met.
   (B)   Any person or business intending to sell consumer fireworks shall
register annually with the State Fire Marshal in accordance with KRS 227.715,
and display its registration certificate in a conspicuous location at the site.
   (C)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall comply with
all applicable provisions of the International Building Code, with Kentucky
Amendments (adopted edition), and NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection
Association) – Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, Storage, and Retail
Sales of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles (adopted edition);
   (D)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or sell any consumer
fireworks listed in §
93.01(B) to any person under 18 years of age.
(KRS 227.715 (6) - (8)) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 95.04 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
95.02 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than $1,000,000. However, the City Commission or other
appropriate city official or the State Fire Marshal may require a larger amount
if in their judgement the situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of
all damages which may be caused thereby either to a person or to property by
reason of the permitted display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his
agents, employees or subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry, or
gold star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate, toy
snakes which contain no mercury, smoke novelties and party novelties, which
contain less than twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture, or
shells or cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms, or blank cartridges for a
show or theater, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports,
or for use by military organizations, or the sale of any kind of fireworks
provided the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730)
§ 95.06 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the State Fire Marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter. After a period of 60 days,
the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of 60 days, the seized fireworks may be offered for
sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor, or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or "Display"
designation shall require the notification of the United States Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. The State Fire Marshal shall provide the owner
or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of any fireworks
seized within five business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the State Fire
Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the State Fire Marshal's intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire Marshal's
intent. The State Fire Marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the State Fire Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal's intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for
three consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks within
ten days of the date of the last publication, the State Fire Marshal may
proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the fireworks
within ten days of the date of the last publication, a hearing as set out in
division (C)(1) of this section shall be held.
      (3)   Nothing in this subchapter shall restrict a local government from
enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks within their
jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 95.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the City Commission or
other authorized city official. The City Commission or other authorized city
official, before granting such permit may require the applicant to provide a
bond to indemnify the city and all other persons against injury or damages
which might result from the proposed blasting. Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material
of a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any
other portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall
be provided for such hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
Penalty, see §
95.99
Cross-reference:
   Fire Prevention Code, see
Chapter 157
SMOKE DETECTORS
§ 95.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "DWELLING UNIT." Any group of rooms located within a building and forming a
single housekeeping unit with facilities which are used or designed to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking, or eating.
   "DWELLING." Any building which contains one or more dwelling units or any
rooming unit, rooms, or area designated or used for sleeping purposes, either
as a primary use or use on casual occasions. "DWELLING" shall include a rooming
house, motels, tourist homes, school dormitories, apartment buildings, and
condominiums but not to the exclusion of other dwelling units.
   "OWNER." Any person or legal entity who alone, jointly, or severally with
others:
      (1)   Shall have all or part of the legal title to any dwelling or
dwelling unit, with or without accompanying actual possession thereof, or shall
have all or part of the beneficial ownership of any dwelling or dwelling unit
and a right to present use and enjoyment thereof, including a mortgage in
possession; or
      (2)   Shall have charge, care, or control of any dwelling or dwelling
unit as owner, or as executor, administrator, trustee, guardian of the estate,
or duly authorized agent of the owner. Any such person thus representing the
actual owner shall be bound to comply with the owner's obligations under this
section.
   "ROOMING UNIT." Any room which is designed or used for sleeping purposes. A
rooming unit may include a room in a rooming house, a hotel, a motel, a tourist
home, a school dormitory, or an apartment building which may or may not have
some additional facilities for eating or cooking contained therein.
(Ord. 1-1-87, passed 2-12-87)
§ 95.31 SMOKE DETECTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Subject to such exceptions and conditions for compliance as stated
herein, six months after the effective date of this subchapter, smoke detectors
shall be required in all dwellings privately owned or rented for occupancy. It
shall be the responsibility of the owner of each new or existing occupied
dwelling unit to install smoke detectors in each dwelling unit as hereinafter
provided. The smoke detectors shall be capable of sensing visible or invisible
particles of combustion and providing a suitable audible (or visual for the
deaf or hearing-impaired) alarm.
   (B)   This subchapter shall apply to any and all dwellings or dwelling
units, new or existing, which do not fall under the jurisdiction of the
currently adopted Kentucky Building Code or the currently adopted Life Safety
Code (LSC 101).
(Ord. 1-1-87, passed 2-12-87) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.32 TYPE AND PLACEMENT.
   (A)   In order to comply with this subchapter, only ionization or
photoelectric type detectors approved by a nationally-recognized testing
laboratory shall be installed. As an alternative to self-contained smoke
detectors, under certain limited conditions (i.e., battery-powered smoke
detectors), an approved fire detection system or a combination thereof may be
installed. The Fire Department may subjectively, and on a case-by-case basis,
approve each and every alternative system in written form.
   (B)   Smoke detectors in new residential dwellings shall be wired directly
(hard wired) to the building's power supply. In existing buildings, it is
preferred that smoke detectors be wired directly to the power supply; however,
the detectors may be powered by self- monitored battery or operated by an
electrical plug-in outlet which is fitted with a plug restrainer device,
provided that the outlet is not controlled by any switch other than the main
power supply.
   (C)   Smoke detectors shall be placed in accordance with applicable N.F.P.A.
Standards (see §
95.34). Detectors may be ceiling or wall mounted, provided that if wall mounted
they shall be within 12 inches, but not closer than six inches, of the ceiling.
   (D)   At least one smoke detector shall be installed to protect each
sleeping area. A sleeping area is defined as the area or areas of the dwelling
unit in which the bedrooms (or sleeping rooms) are located. Where bedrooms or
rooms ordinarily used for sleeping are separated by other used areas (such as
kitchens or living rooms, but not bathrooms or closets), they shall be
considered as separate sleeping areas for the purposes of this section. In a
dwelling unit which contains a well-defined sleeping room separated from the
other activity areas of the same unit, the detector shall be located in the
corridor within the unit or interior area giving direct access to the rooms
used for sleeping purposes. Where sleeping areas are separated or where a
single smoke detector will not adequately service all sleeping areas, there
shall be smoke detectors installed adjacent to each sleeping area.
   (E)   In a rooming unit, the detector shall be centrally located on the
ceiling.
   (F)   In a dwelling containing two or more dwelling units or any rooming
unit, in addition to the requirements for individual smoke detectors in each
dwelling unit or rooming unit, detectors shall be placed in centrally located
common areas, so that smoke detectors will adequately service all sleeping
areas.
(Ord. 1-1-87, passed 2-12-87; Am. Ord. 2-3-87, passed - -87) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.33 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The owner of the dwelling shall be responsible for supplying and
installing in an operable condition the required detectors and for providing
maintenance and testing in an owner- occupied residence; or for providing the
manufacturer's maintenance and testing instructions to a tenant in the case of
rental property.
   (B)   The owner of a dwelling shall be responsible for maintenance and
testing of detectors, in accordance with manufacturer's instructions, which are
located in common areas or detectors in rooming units where the tenant usually
has short periods of occupancy (hotels, motels, rooming or tourist homes).
   (C)   The tenant shall be responsible for maintaining and testing the
detector, in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions, which are within
his exclusive control during the life of the tenancy. The tenant shall be
responsible for notifying, in writing, the owner when a detector becomes
inoperable, whereafter the owner has ten days in which to repair or replace in
operable condition the detector. In the battery-operated type of detector,
battery replacement shall be the responsibility of the tenant.
   (D)   At every change of tenancy, it shall be the duty of the owner to test
and ascertain that those detectors contained in the unit are in operable
condition, and if not, the owner shall be responsible for placing them in
operable condition prior to re-renting the unit.
   (E)   At every change of occupancy of every dwelling unit occasioned by or
incidental to a sale, lease or sub-lease of the unit, it shall be the duty of
the grantor thereof (i.e., the seller, lessor or sub-lessor, as the case may
be) to provide, before occupancy, to the new occupant that all smoke detectors
as required by this section (or other applicable laws) are installed and in
proper working condition. Failure to comply with this division shall be
punishable as set forth herein; provided, however, that this division shall not
be construed to violate or render void any contract, lease, or sub-lease
subject hereto.
   (F)   No smoke detector or alternative system shall be directly connected
(permanently wired) to the electrical system of a structure without the proper
electrical certification.
(Ord. 1-1-87, passed 2-12-87) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.34 SUPPLEMENTAL STANDARDS.
   This subchapter is intended to be used with, and supplemented by, the
applicable provisions of the National Fire Protection Standards Nos. 72-E and
74 (current edition) which are hereby incorporated herein; however, if there
shall be any conflict between this subchapter and the supplemental standards,
this subchapter and any rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto shall
prevail. All amendments to or changes in N.F.P.A. Nos. 72-E and 74 shall be
adopted and made part thereof without further reference.
(Ord. 1-1-87, passed 2-12-87)
§ 95.35 ENFORCEMENT.
   The requirements of this subchapter shall be enforced through the officers,
employees, and volunteers of the Fire Department of the city; and all other
officers, employees, and the city shall provide to the Fire Department all
information relevant thereto acquired by them in the course and scope of their
employment or association with the city. No licenses, permits, or certificates
of any kind or nature shall be issued on behalf of the city in regard to the
condition of or any activity within any dwelling unit unless smoke detectors
have been installed and located therein according to the requirements and
specifications hereof.
(Ord. 1-1-87, passed 2-12-87)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
95.02 or 95.04, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued
thereunder, or who knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to
violate the provisions of those sections, shall be fined not more than $1,000,
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both. (KRS 227.990 (4))
   (B)   The minimum penalty for noncompliance with §§
95.30 through 95.35 is $100. The penalty for noncompliance is automatically
waived if the dwelling unit is brought into compliance with §§
95.30 through 95.35 within 30 days of the original violation. The property
owner must request an inspection from the Fire Department to verify compliance
and have the waiver provision applied. Continued failure to comply may result
in a maximum penalty of $1,000 or six months in jail. (Ord. 1-1-87, passed 2-
12-87)
   (C)   Any person who violates any other provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more than $500.
CHAPTER 96: MINORS
Section
Alcoholic Beverages
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Alcohol consumption prohibited; exceptions
   
96.03   Property owner's responsibility
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the following words have the meanings
indicated:
   "ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE." The meaning indicated in KRS 242.010; and
   "MINOR." Any natural person who is less than twenty-one (21) years of age;
and
   "PERSON." Any natural person, corporation, partnership, joint venture or
unincorporated association of persons, or any combination thereof.
   "REAL ESTATE." Includes, without limitation, land and any interest therein
and all structures and other improvements thereon.
   "OWNER." Any person who owns or controls any interest in any real estate in
the city.
(Ord. 35 (4-22-92), passed 4-22-92)
§ 96.02 ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall passively or actively cause, permit, aid, allow, encourage
or engage in the consumption or possession of alcoholic beverages by a minor in
the city unless the possession or consumption occurs at the residence of the
minor and in the presence of another person who is over twenty-one (21) years
of age, who is related to the minor and resides with the minor at the same
residence.
(Ord. 35 (4-22-92), passed 4-22-92)
Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03 PROPERTY OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Any owner shall engage in all actions necessary for the expulsion from
the real estate in which the owner has interest of all minors, except residents
of the real estate, who are known to the owner to be engaged in the possession
or consumption of alcoholic beverages thereon.
   (B)   The actions of the owner required include, without limitation,
notifying the city Police Department of the location of the real estate, and
the interest of the owner therein, and that, without license or privilege from
the owner, minors are engaged in the possession and consumption of alcoholic
beverages and requesting police assistance in the removal of minors from the
real estate.
(Ord. 35 (4-22-92), passed 4-22-92)
Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the terms or provisions of this chapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction, sentenced to pay a fine of no
more than five hundred ($500.00) dollars or imprisonment for a period of no
more than ninety (90) days, or any combination of fines or imprisonment.
(Ord. 35 (4-22-92), passed 4-22-92)
CHAPTER 97: SECURITY DEVICES
Section
   
97.01   Devices restricted
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 DEVICES RESTRICTED.
   Nobody shall cause, permit, allow, aid, assist, encourage or engage in the
installation, maintenance, operation or use of any security alarm system in the
city which is in any way involved in more than five (5) false alarms of any
crime or casualty within or upon the premises protected by the security alarm
system to the city or any department, officer, agent or employee of the city in
any one calendar year.
(Ord. 60 (2-223-94), passed 2-23-94)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Each violation and every other failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter shall be a misdemeanor; and each day of continuation shall be a
separate and distinct offense for which:
   (A)   Anybody convicted in a court of competent jurisdiction shall be
sentenced to pay a criminal fine not to exceed the amount set forth in KRS
534.040 (2) (a) or a term of imprisonment not to exceed the period set forth in
KRS 532.090 (1), or both; and
   (B)   The offender shall be subject to civil penalties as indicated in the
following schedule for each offense, which shall be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of debt if not paid by the offender within thirty
(30) days after citation for the violation or other failure to comply with the
provisions of this chapter:
 
Violation                                     Civil Penalty
6th false alarm in any calendar year          $25.00
7th false alarm in any calendar year          $50.00
8th false alarm in any calendar year          $100.00
9th false alarm in any calendar year          $200.00
Each false alarm after 9 in any calendar year $300.00
 
(Ord. 60 (2-23-94), passed 2-23-94)
CHAPTER 98: PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS AND RECREATION SYSTEM
Section
   
98.01   Establishment of recreation system
   
98.02   Activities prohibited
   
98.03   Rental of areas in Pride Park
 
   
98.99   Penalties
§ 98.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF RECREATION SYSTEM.
   Pursuant to the authority of KRS 83.020 and KRS 97.020, a parks, playground
and recreation system is hereby established by the City of Taylor Mill, for the
health, welfare, benefit and use of the citizens, residents and taxpayers
thereof, and nobody shall cause, promote, allow, aid, assist, encourage or
engage in any activity within any park or playground of the city which is
contrary thereto.
(Ord. 161 (9-13-00), passed 9-13-00)
§ 98.02 ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   Nobody other than officers and employees of the city shall cause, promote,
permit, allow, aid, assist, encourage or engage in any of the following
activities or occurrences within Pride Park, which is located at 5614 Taylor
Mill Road, Taylor Mill, KY.
   (A)   The presence of anybody within the boundaries of the park anytime
after dusk and before dawn, without special authorization from the city
commission.
   (B)   The discharge of a firearm by anybody other than in the defense of
person or property, or by members of the Taylor Police Department or any other
peace officer.
   (C)   The discharge or display of any fireworks without both a state permit
and specific authorization from the commission therefore.
   (D)   The operation of any vehicle at a speed in excess of 15 mph.
   (E)   Any animal in the park;
      (1)   Which isn't leashed or otherwise controlled by the owner or
custodian thereof;
      (2)   Which constitutes a physical threat to human beings or other
animals by its demeanor or actions;
      (3)   Any animal that constitutes a nuisance by odor, noise, or any other
means.
   (F)   The operation of any motor vehicle anywhere other than the paved
roadway (excluding all walking/hiking trails) and parking lot.
   (G)   Swimming or wading in any pond or other impoundment of water.
   (H)   Open fires without both a written permit therefore from the Chief of
the Taylor Mill Fire Department and specific approval from the city commission.
   (I)   Hunting, trapping or in anyway injuring or molesting any animal within
the park.
   (J)   Servicing or repairing any vehicle or other equipment.
   (K)   Skateboarding, roller-skating, roller-blading, etc. in any area of the
park.
   (L)   Bicycling in any area other than the paved parking lot and the paved
roadway, (excluding all walking/hiking trails).
   (M)   Any activity that disturbs or interferes with anybody else using the
park or any property adjacent thereto.
   (N)   The employment, use or any other activation or operation of any music
instrument without specific authorization therefore from the city commission.
   (O)   The display of anything for sale or trade without specific
authorization therefore from the city commission.
   (P)   The display, location, placement, posting or distribution of any sign,
advertisement, circular notice, statement, banner, emblem or design.
   (Q)   The possession of any alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 161(9-13-00), passed 9-13-00; Am Ord. 3016(12-14-16), passed 12-14-16)
§ 98.03 RENTAL OF AREAS IN PRIDE PARK.
   The east and west sides of the shelter area in Pride Park may be reserved
for the exclusive use of any group of individuals, for a day at a time, one any
day for which there has been no prior reservation thereof, by submitting a
written application therefore to the City Administrative Officer, on a form
provided by the city, and separately paying both the hereinafter established
reservation fee and security deposit to the city, more than seven calendar days
before the reservation date:
   (A)   A non-refundable daily fee for the reservation of either side of the
shelter area in Pride Park is hereby established in the amount of $25 per day
for reservations by residents or employees of the city, and $50 per day for all
others, which shall not be refunded in any circumstance.
   (B)   A security deposit for the reservation of either side of the shelter
area is hereby established in the amount of $50 per day, which shall be
refunded to the applicant in the event that the reserved area is left in a neat
and clean condition, otherwise it shall be forfeited to the city.
(Ord. 161 (9-13-00), passed 9-13-00)
§ 98.99 PENALTIES.
   Each violation and every other, failure to comply with the provisions of
this chapter shall be a misdemeanor; and each day of the continuation thereof
shall be a separate and distinct offense for which:
   (A)   Everybody convicted thereof in a court of competent jurisdiction shall
be sentenced to pay a criminal fine not to exceed the maximum amount of $500 as
set forth in KRS 534.050 (2) (a) or a term of imprisonment not, to exceed the
maximum period of 12 months as set forth in KRS 532.090 (1), or both; and
   (B)   The offender shall be subject to a civil penalty of $100 plus the
costs of collection thereof, including, without limitation, court costs and
reasonable attorney fees, which shall be recovered by the city in a civil
action in the nature of debt if not paid by the offender within 30 days after
citation for the violation or other failure to comply with the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 161 (9-13-00), passed 9-13-00)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   PAWNBROKERS
      
113.   GARAGE SALES
      
114.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
      
115.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
116.   FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
      
117.   MOTOR VEHICLE SALES
      
118.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
119.   COMMUNICATION SERVICES
      
120.   USED PROPERTY BUSINESSES
      
121.   RENTAL REGISTRY
      
122.   CANNABIS BUSINESS
CHAPTER 110: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Purpose
   
110.03   Business regulations
   
110.04   Business taxation
   
110.05   Collection
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ANYBODY." Any human being, and any combination thereof, in the form of
partnership, corporation, joint venture, unincorporated association, or
otherwise.
   "APPLICABLE LAWS." The constitutions, statutes, ordinances, rules,
regulations and other laws of the United States, Commonwealth of Kentucky,
County of Kenton and any other governmental entity or agency having
jurisdiction.
   "BUSINESS." Any and all franchises, trades, occupations, professions or
other businesses within the meaning and context of KRS 92.280, KRS 92.281 and
Section 181 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   "BUSINESS REGULATORY LICENSE." A license required by the city pursuant to
the police power thereof, for the purpose of regulating business activities and
operations within the city.
   "BUSINESS REGULATORY LICENSE FEE." A fee required by the city for each
business regulatory license, pursuant to KRS 82.082 and the police power
thereof, to provide the funds necessary to pay the expenses of regulating
business activities and operations within the city, including, without
limitation, the expense of issuing business regulatory licenses.
   "CITY." The City of Taylor Mill, in Kenton County, Kentucky.
   "NOBODY." Not anybody, or no human being, or any combination thereof, in the
form of a partnership, corporation, joint venture, unincorporated association,
or otherwise.
   "OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE." A tax for revenue, pursuant to the taxing
authority of the city, including, without limitation, the authority established
by KRS 82.082. KRS 92.280, KRS 92.281 and Section 181 of the Kentucky
Constitution, wherein it is sometimes identified and referred to as a power to
impose and collect license fees on stock used for breeding purposes, on
franchises, trades, occupations and professions.
(Ord. 250 (12-12-07), passed 12-12-07)
§ 110.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to both regulate and tax those engaged in
franchises, trades, occupations, professions and other businesses in the city.
(Ord. 250 (12-12-07), passed 12-12-07)
§ 110.03 BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Requirements. Everybody who is engaged in any franchise, trade,
occupation, profession or other business in the city, other than those who are
only so engaged as an employee, shall obtain an annual business regulatory
license for that franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business;
and pay to the city a business regulatory license fee in the amount of either
fifty dollars ($50.00) or that part of a multi-jurisdictional occupational
permit fee, collected by Kenton County and proportionally allocated to the
city, pursuant to the provisions of an inter-local agreement between the city
and Kenton County and some other cities therein, for a single multi-
jurisdictional annual occupational permit fee of two hundred twenty-five
dollars ($225.00), which the Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to sign on
behalf of the city.
   (B)   Prohibitions. Nobody, other than those who are only engaged as an
employee in the city, shall conspire, cause, permit, promote, allow, aid,
assist, encourage or engage in any franchise, trade, occupation, profession or
other business in the city for which the annual business regulatory license
required hereby has not been issued.
   (C)   Form and content of annual business regulatory license and
application. The form and content of the annual business regulatory license
required by this chapter and the application for it shall be determined by the
City Administrative Officer; provided, however, that the application shall
include:
      (1)   Sufficient information for the identification of the persons
involved in the franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business; and
      (2)   The computation of the annual occupational license fee imposed by
this chapter; and
      (3)   Sufficient information and inspection authorization for a
determination by the city of compliance by the licensee with all applicable
laws; and
      (4)   The name in which the business will be conducted; the address of
the real estate upon which the business will be conducted, and the mailing
address of the business if different from the location; and the business
telephone number and the state tax identification numbers of the business.
      (5)   The name, address, date of birth and social security number of each
owner of the business and each partner, officer or director, if any.
      (6)   The name, residence address and telephone number of a duly
authorized representative of the business who is responsible for operating and
managing the business in the city, and a night emergency number at which some
responsible representative of the business can be reached in case of an
emergency.
      (7)   A full description of the business operations to be conducted.
      (8)   The date on which the business began or will begin operations in
the city.
      (9)   The accounting period of the business.
      (10)   The number of an employee working or expected to be working for
the business in the city during the license year.
      (11)   A statement describing the circumstances of each denial,
suspension or revocation of any business regulatory license for any person
named or identified in the application.
      (12)   A statement describing the circumstances of each conviction of any
person named or identified in the application of a felony, misdemeanor for
which imprisonment or other confinement was a possible penalty, any other crime
in which moral turpitude was involved, or any other crime directly related to a
business similar to that which is the subject of the application.
      (13)   A statement as to whether any license, permit, degree,
certification or similar document is required by any applicable law for the
conduct or employment in the business.
      (14)   A statement as to whether there are hazardous materials kept at
the business premises and the location thereof, and whether there are pets,
guard dogs or other animals usually kept therein and any other information
which the applicant believes would be necessary or helpful to emergency
personnel responding to a call to said premises.
      (15)   The net profits and hereinafter described property factor, sales
factor, and payroll factor of the business for the previous calendar year.
      (16)   Such additional information that the City Administrative Officer
determines to be reasonably necessary.
      (17)   A warning in the following or similar language:
         "WARNING: Statements in this application shall be made under oath, by
affirmation or any other legally authorized manner of attesting to the truth of
such statements, with the signatures notarized, according to law; and any false
statements made herein shall be punishable according to law; and may be cause
for denial of the application or the revocation of any business regulatory
license issued pursuant thereto."
      (18)   Information incorporated by reference. All information from any
previous application for an annual business regulatory license required by this
chapter, which continues to be accurate, may be incorporated by reference into
subsequent annual applications for the same license by the same applicant.
   (D)   Application process.
      (1)   Signature to application. Each application for an annual business
regulatory license required by this chapter shall be signed by the applicant or
an authorized representative of the applicant, who shall attest to the truth of
the statements therein, with knowledge that any false statements constitute
perjury, for which the signatory may be prosecuted and punished according to
law; and such signatures shall be notarized according to law.
      (2)   Payment of fees. Each application for an annual business regulatory
license required by this chapter shall be presented to the City Clerk/Tax
Collector, or any designee thereof, along with both the business regulatory
license fee and any occupational license fee that is due from the applicant. No
application for a business regulatory license shall be accepted or received by
the City Clerk/Tax Collector without payment of the business regulatory license
fee and any occupational license fee due from the applicant.
      (3)   Review of applications. Each application for an annual business
regulatory license required by this chapter that is received and accepted by
the City Clerk shall be immediately referred to the City Administrative
Officer, who shall review it according to the following standards within thirty
(30) days after the receipt and acceptance thereof by the City Clerk/Tax
Collector.
         (a)   When the applicant, or an employee of the applicant, is required
to have any license, permit, degree, certification or other similar document
pursuant to the provision of any applicable law for the conduct of or
employment in the business which is the subject of the application, the
license, permit, degree, certification or other similar document shall have
been duly issued to the applicant or an employee of the applicant prior to the
issuance of the business regulatory license. Documentary evidence of the
issuance satisfactory to the City Administrative Officer shall be provided by
the applicant.
         (b)   The criminal record of the persons named or identified in the
application shall be considered to the extent such record includes conviction
of a felony, a misdemeanor for which imprisonment or other confinement was a
possible penalty, any other crime in which moral turpitude was involved; or any
other crime which was directly related to a business of the type which is the
subject of the application. In determining if a conviction was directly related
to a business, the City Administrative Officer shall consider:
            1.   The nature and seriousness of the crime for which the person
was convicted.
            2.   The relationship of the crime to the purpose of the regulation
of the business.
            3.   The relationship of the crime to the ability, capacity and
fitness required to perform the duties and discharge the responsibilities of
the operation of the business.
            4.   The extent to which the person convicted has been successfully
rehabilitated.
         (c)   The City Administrative Officer shall consider whether the
business is of a type that the operation, unless closely supervised, has a
probability of generating or resulting in criminal activity or adversely
affecting the health, safety, morals and welfare of occupants or residents of
adjoining property, the citizens and residents of the city, or will constitute
a nuisance.
         (d)   The City Administrative Officer shall consider the business
history of the applicant including:
            1.   Whether the persons named and identified in the application
have been denied or had suspended or revoked a similar license by the city or
any other city, county or state and the reasons therefor.
            2.   Whether complaints have been received by the city about the
business practices or responsibility of the persons named and identified in the
application, and the disposition of those complaints.
         (e)   The City Administrative Officer shall consider whether the
persons named and identified in the application are indebted to the city for
delinquent taxes, assessments, fines or similar obligations.
         (f)   The City Administrative Officer shall consider whether the
business and the proposed location complies with all applicable laws,
including, without limitation, land subdivision and use, zoning, building
construction and maintenance, and fire prevention and life safety regulations.
         (g)   After review of the application in conformity with this section,
the City Administrative Officer shall notify the City Clerk/Tax Collector, or
any designee thereof, of either:
         (h)   The approval of the application.
         (i)   The approval of the application conditionally; but if the
application is approved conditionally, the City Administrative Officer shall
determine and require those conditions that are reasonably necessary to
accomplish the intent of this chapter, including, without limitation:
            1.   A requirement that the applicant post bond with surety
acceptable to the City Administrative Officer in a reasonable amount determined
by the City Administrative Officer to ensure compliance.
            2.   A requirement that a debt to the city be paid
before a specified date.
            3.   A requirement that the applicant permit periodic inspection of
certain parts of the premises or of certain records.
            4.   A requirement that certain alterations be made in the premises
before a specified date.
         (j)   The disapproval the application.
      (4)   Notice to the applicant. Unless the City Clerk/Tax Collector
receives a written notice from the City Administrative Officer, within thirty
(30) days after an application for a business regulatory license required by
this chapter has been referred to the City Administrative Officer for review
pursuant to division (D)(3)of this section, that the application was either
conditionally approved or disapproved, the City Clerk/Tax Collector, or any
designee thereof shall issue the business regulatory license that is the
subject of the application and mail it to the applicant at the address
indicated in the application; and, thereafter, the applicant may engage in the
franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business described in the
application, but only at the address thereof indicated in the application,
until that business regulatory license expires or is suspended or revoked
according to the provisions of this chapter.
      (5)   Conditional approval of application. In the event that the City
Clerk/Tax Collector receives a written notice from the City Administrative
Officer, within thirty (30) days after an application for a business regulatory
license required by this chapter has been referred to the City Administrative
Officer for review pursuant to division (D)(3) of this section, that the
application was conditionally approved, the City Clerk/Tax Collector, or any
designee thereof shall notify the applicant thereof and the reasons therefor
identified by the City Administrative Officer, by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the address of the applicant indicated in the
application, along with a notice that the license will be issued by the City
Clerk/Tax Collector only upon receipt by the City Clerk/Tax Collector of a
written signed acceptance by the applicant of the conditions to be performed
prior to the issuance of the license. The notice shall also state that if the
acceptance is not received by the City Clerk/Tax Collector within such time,
the application will be thereby disapproved, ipso facto.
      (6)   Disapproval of application. In the event that the City Clerk/Tax
Collector receives a written notice from the City Administrative Officer,
within thirty (30) days after an application for a business regulatory license
required by this chapter has been referred to the City Administrative Officer
for review pursuant to division (D)(3) of this section, that the application
was disapproved by the City Administrative Officer, the City Clerk/Tax
Collector, or any designee thereof, shall notify the applicant of that denial
and the reasons therefor identified by the City Administrative Officer, by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the address of the applicant
indicated in the application, with a refund of any anticipated city
occupational license fee paid with the application, and a notice of the
procedure established in this chapter for an appeal from the denial of that
application.
      (7)   Business regulatory license revocation or suspension.
         (a)   Any business regulatory license required by this chapter may be
revoked or suspended by the City Administrative Officer for any period of time
determined by the City Administrative Officer to be reasonable and appropriate
for any of the following reasons; but only after a due process evidentiary
hearing in regard thereto, for which a notice has been sent to the licensee at
the address indicated in the licensee's application, by certified mail, return
receipt requested, at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing:
         (b)   Any false or intentionally misleading statement or information
provided in the license application.
         (c)   Any failure or refusal to perform or abide by any of the
conditions of a conditional license.
         (d)   The criminal conviction of any person named or identified in the
license application of a felony, a misdemeanor for which imprisonment or any
other confinement is a possible penalty, any other crime in which moral
turpitude is involved, or any other crime which directly relates to a business
of the type for which the license was issued. However, the consideration of
such a criminal conviction shall include:
            1.   The nature and seriousness of the crime for which the person
was convicted.
            2.   The relationship of the crime to the purposes of the
regulation of the business.
            3.   The relationship of the crime to the ability, capacity and
fitness required to perform the duties and discharge the responsibilities of
the operation of the business.
            4.   The extent to which the person has been successfully
rehabilitated.
         (e)   The revocation, suspension or expiration without renewal of any
license, permit, degree, certification or similar document which is required by
any applicable law for the conduct of or employment in the business for which
the license was issued.
         (f)   The violation of any applicable law in the conduct of the
business by any person engaged therein.
         (g)   Violations of applicable laws by any person within the business
premises of the licensee, or under the control thereof.
         (h)   The revocation or suspension of a city business regulatory
license pursuant to city ordinance shall be in addition to the imposition of
any other penalty prescribed by city ordinance or any other applicable law.
   (E)   Appeals.
      (1)   Any conditional approval or disapproval of an application for a
business regulatory license required by this chapter, or any suspension or
revocation of any such license may be appealed to the Mayor of the city, by
filing with the City Clerk/Tax Collector within thirty (30) days after the
conditional approval, disapproval, revocation or suspension:
      (2)   A written notice of the appeal; and
      (3)   A copy of the conditional approval, disapproval, revocation or
suspension that is the subject of the appeal; and
      (4)   A statement why there should be an approval without conditions, or
no disapproval, revocation or suspension; and
      (5)   An appeal fee in the sum of two hundred dollars ($200.00), to
provide for the expenses of conducting a due process hearing in regard thereto.
      (6)   In such an appeal, a de novo due process hearing in regard to the
suspension or revocation shall be conducted by the Mayor, or by a hearing
officer appointed by the Mayor, who shall file a record with the Mayor, with a
written recommendation regarding findings of fact, conclusions of law and a
decision based thereon. Within ninety (90) days after the date the appeal was
filed, the Mayor shall issue a written decision in regard thereto, including
findings of fact, conclusions of law and a decision based upon a record of the
due process hearing; and the appellant shall be notified thereof by certified
mail, return receipt requested, at the address thereof indicated in the
application for the license. Unless an appeal from the decision of the Mayor is
filed in the court having jurisdiction thereof within thirty (30) days after
the decision of the Mayor, the decision of the Mayor shall become final.
   (F)   Expiration date. Unless an earlier expiration date is provided
therein, all business regulatory licenses required hereby shall expire at
midnight on the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the end of the fiscal
year of the licensee.
   (G)   Kenton County Fiscal Court. The executive authority of the city may
contract with the Fiscal Court of Kenton County, Kentucky, for the performance
of the duties imposed by this chapter on the City Clerk/Tax Collector.
(Ord. 250 (12-12-07), passed 12-12-07; Am. Ord. 262 (12-10-08), passed 12-10-
08) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 BUSINESS TAXATION.
   (A)   Levy and imposition. For the purpose of providing funds for the
general operating expenses of the city and the municipal services and functions
provided thereby, and subject to the provisions of KRS 67.750 through 67.795,
and except as provided in division (D) of this section, an occupational license
fee is hereby levied and imposed upon everybody engaged in any franchise,
trade, occupation, profession or other businesses in the city, for the
privilege of that engagement.
   (B)   Rate. The occupational license fee that is levied and imposed by this
chapter is at the rate of:
      (1)   Employees. Two percent (2%) of all of the gross compensation earned
by an employee for labor, work or services provided in the city.
      (2)   Those not an employee. Two percent (2%) of the net profits of
everybody, other than an employee, who is engaged in any franchise, trade,
occupation, profession or other business in the city.
   (C)   Apportionment of net profits. Pursuant to the authority of KRS 67.753
(4), it is hereby determined that the apportionment provisions of KRS 67.753 do
not fairly represent the extent of the engagement in the city of those, other
than an employee, who are engaged in any franchise, trade, occupation,
profession or other business both within and outside of the city ; and,
accordingly, the following described property factor is hereby added to the
payroll factor and the sales factor provided in KRS 67.753 for the
apportionment of the net profits of those, other than an employee, who are
engaged in any franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business both
within and outside of the city.
      (1)   The property factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the
average value of the taxpayers real and tangible personal property owned or
rented and used in the city during the computation period, and the denominator
of which is the average value of all of the taxpayer's real and tangible
personal property owned or rented and used anywhere during the compulation
period. In the determination of the property factor:
         (a)   Property owned by the taxpayer is valued at its original cost.
Property rented by the taxpayer is valued at eight (8) times the net annual
rental rate which is the annual rental rate paid by the taxpayer less any
annual rental rate received by the taxpayer from sub-rentals.
         (b)   The average value of property shall be determined by averaging
the values at the beginning and ending of the computation period, but the City
Administrative Officer may require the averaging of monthly values during the
computation period if reasonably required to reflect properly the average value
of the taxpayer's property.
      (2)   The proportion of the total net profits everywhere of those, other
than an employee, who are engaged in any franchise, trade, occupation,
profession or other business both within and outside of the city that are
subject to the occupational license fee established by this chapter, shall be
determined by multiplying the total net profits thereof everywhere by the
quotient of the total of the payroll factor and the sales factor described in
KRS 67.753 (2) and (3), and the property factor described in division (C)(1)
above, that the franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business had
in the city during the tax period, divided by the total number of those factors
that the franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business had in the
city during the tax period. The total number of those factors that the
franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business had in the city
during the tax period will always be either 1, 2 or 3. For example, if the
franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business:
         (a)   Had only the sales revenue factor in the city, during the tax
period, without either the property factor or the payroll factor in the city,
the total number of those factors that the franchise, trade, occupation,
profession or other business had in the city during the tax period would be 1;
or
         (b)   Had both the sales revenue factor and the payroll factor in the
city, during the tax period, without the property factor in the city, the total
number of those factors that that the franchise, trade, occupation, profession
or other business had in the city during the tax period would be 2; or
         (c)   Had the sales revenue factor, and the payroll factor, and the
property factor in the city, during the tax period, the total number of those
factors that that the franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other
business had in the city during the tax period would be 3.
   (D)   Exemptions. The following franchises, trades, occupations, professions
and other businesses are exempted from the occupational license fee levied and
imposed in divisions (A) and (B) of this section:
      (1)   Organizations that have been determined to be exempt from federal
income taxation pursuant to Section 501 (c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1954, as amended.
      (2)   Owners of their principal and primary residence, who let or lease
no more than one (1) separate residential unit in that principal and primary
residence.
   (E)   Administrative provisions. The provisions of this chapter shall be
administered and enforced by the City Administrative Officer, who is hereby
authorized to promulgate any additional regulations in regard thereto which are
not inconsistent with any state statute, or any ordinance of the city, or any
executive order of the Mayor.
   (F)   Purpose of occupational license fee. The purpose of the business
regulatory license fees and the occupational license fees imposed and levied by
this chapter is to fund the general operating expenses of the city, including,
without limitation, police, fire, emergency medical, public works and
administrative services.
(Ord. 250 (12-12-07), passed 12-12-07) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 COLLECTION.
   The business regulatory license fees and occupational license fees imposed
and levied by this chapter shall be received and collected by the City Clerk/
Tax Collector or by the Fiscal Court of Kenton County, Kentucky, with which the
executive authority of the city is hereby authorized to contract for those
services.
(Ord. 250 (12-12-07), passed 12-12-07)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalties. Each separate violation of this chapter is hereby
classified as a civil offense, for which:
      (1)   The maximum civil fine required by KRS 65.8808(2)(b)1. that may be
imposed for each separate violation of this chapter, is hereby established as
$500; and
      (2)   The specific civil fine required by KRS 65.8808(2)(b)2. that will
be imposed for each separate offense and violation of this chapter if the
person who has committed the violation and offense does not contest a citation
therefor, is hereby established as $100;
      (3)   An enforcement officer may, in lieu of immediately issuing a civil
citation, give notice that the violation of this chapter shall be remedied
within a specific period of time.
   (B)   Criminal penalties. Each violation of this chapter shall be a
misdemeanor for which everybody convicted thereof in a court of competent
jurisdiction shall be sentenced to pay a criminal fine not to exceed the
maximum amount of five hundred ($500.00) as set forth in KRS 534.050(2)(a) or a
term of imprisonment not to exceed the maximum period of twelve (12) months as
set forth in KRS 532.090(1), or both.
(Ord. 250(12-12-07), passed 12-12-07)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
111.01   Purpose
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Documents to evidence license
   
111.04   Application for license
   
111.05   Fee schedule
   
111.06   Criteria for approval
   
111.07   Approval or disapproval
   
111.08   Permitted hours of operation
   
111.09   Regulations and prohibitions governing licensee
   
111.10   Revocation or suspension of license
   
111.11   Open containers
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 PURPOSE.
   The licenses and fees therefor and the administration and regulation thereof
and the prohibitions and penalties described herein are hereby established by,
in, and for the city.
(Ord. l-7-84, passed - -84)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   As used herein the words and phrases defined in KRS 241.010 and
243.010 have the meanings indicated therein.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   "ALCOHOL BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR." The person appointed to
the office of Alcohol Beverage Control Administrator created and established by
the city pursuant to KRS 241.160.
      (2)   "BOARD." The State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board established
pursuant to KRS 241.030.
      (3)   "CITY LICENSE." A license established and authorized pursuant to
the terms of this chapter.
      (4)   "CITY LICENSEE." A person who has been issued a city license
pursuant to the terms hereof.
      (5)   "PREMISES." The premises described in the city license issued
pursuant to the terms hereof and the application therefor.
      (6)   "STATE LICENSE." A license authorized by KRS 243.030 and KRS
243.680.
      (7)   "TRAFFIC IN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES." Any action, business, or
transactions in regard to the production, storage, transportation,
distribution, sale, delivery, or transfer of alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 1-7-84, passed - -84)
§ 111.03 DOCUMENTS TO EVIDENCE LICENSE.
   The city licenses authorized and established hereby shall each be evidenced
by a document, the form and content of which shall be prescribed by regulation
of the Alcohol Beverage Control Administrator. The document must be of the same
color and designation as that of the state license to which the city license
corresponds and must comply with all of the provisions for state licenses
required by KRS 243.400.
(Ord. 1-7-84, passed - -84) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Subject to the quotas, limitations, and restrictions described herein, city
licenses shall be originally issued by the Alcohol Beverage Control
Administrator and renewed by him upon the expiration thereof upon receipt of
the following documents and fees more than 30 days prior to the effective date
of an original license and more than 15 days prior to the expiration date of
any license to be renewed:
   (A)   A written application with the truth of the information, statements,
and representations therein attested by the signature and the oath or
affirmation of the applicant. The form and content of the application shall be
prescribed by regulation of the City Alcohol Beverage Control Administrator.
There must be included therein provision for all information required by KRS
243.390 to be contained in the application for state licenses.
   (B)   Documentary evidence of a valid state license to which the city
license which is the subject of the application corresponds.
   (C)   The applicable fee for the city license which is the subject of the
application in cash or by certified or cashiers check.
(Ord. 1-7-84, passed - -84) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 FEE SCHEDULE.
   Pursuant to the authority of KRS 243.070, the city hereby imposes license
fees for the privilege of manufacturing and trafficking in alcoholic beverages;
and nobody shall conspire, cause, permit promote, allow, aid, assist, encourage
or engage in any of the actions, business and transactions authorized by any of
the state alcoholic beverage licenses identified in KRS 243.070 in the city
without a corresponding city license for those same actions, business and
transactions. The annual fees for the city licenses authorized by KRS 243.070
shall be the maximum fee specified in that statute; and the expiration dates of
the city licenses shall be the same as the state licenses to which they
conform. The amount of each annual fee for a city license shall be reduced on a
monthly pro rata basis, so that such annual license fee is reduced by one-
twelfth thereof for each complete calendar month of the license year that has
passed prior to the issuance of that city license: provided, however, that no
such pro-rata license fee reduction shall ever exceed 50% of the annual license
fee.
(Ord. 199 (6-11-03), passed 6-11-03; Am. Ord. 275 (5-11-11), passed 5-11-11)
§ 111.06 CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL.
   The Alcohol Beverage Control Administrator shall not approve any application
for a city license if:
   (A)   The applicant, the application, or the premises described therein do
not fully comply with the provisions of this chapter and all laws in regard to
alcoholic beverages; or
   (B)   The applicant or any shareholder, officer, agent, servant, or employee
thereof has caused, permitted, or engaged in any act for which the revocation
of a state or city license is authorized; or
   (C)   The applicant or any shareholder, officer, agent, servant, or employee
thereof had a state license or city license which was revoked within two years
of the date of the application or the premises described therein were the
premises of any action portion thereof described in a state license or city
license revoked during such time; or
   (D)   Any statement or representation in the application is false; or
   (E)   In the exercise of sound discretion, the Alcohol Beverage Control
Administrator determines any cause or reason for refusing to approve an
application reasonably related to the purpose and objective of this chapter and
the state laws and regulations of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.
(Ord. 1-7-84, passed - -84)
§ 111.07 APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL.
   Within 30 days of the date of the application for an original city license
and 15 days of the date of an application for renewal of a city license, the
Alcohol Beverage Control Administrator shall, by mail or personal delivery
thereof, notify the applicant, in writing, of either:
   (A)   The approval thereof; or,
   (B)   The disapproval thereof and the opportunity for a hearing in regard
thereto.
(Ord. 1-7-84, passed - -84)
§ 111.08 PERMITTED HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority of KRS 244.290 and KRS 244.480 the times and
hours during which distilled spirits and wine and malt beverages may be sold at
retail in the city are hereby established to be the hours after 6:00 a.m. and
before 2:30 a.m. prevailing time, on any day except Sunday and the hours after
11:00 a.m. and before 2:30 a.m., prevailing time, on any Sunday except that no
distilled spirits or wine and malt beverages shall be sold at retail in the
city during the hours the polls are open in the city on any election day and
may be sold on Sunday, March 17, 2019 in the city after 6:00 a.m.
   (B)   During the hours before 6:00 a.m. and after 2:30 a.m. prevailing time,
on any day except any Sunday other than March 17, 2019 and the hours after 2:30
a.m. and before 11:00 a.m., prevailing time, on any Sunday other than March 17,
2019 and the hours when any polls are open in the city on any election day, no
person who has a valid city license for the sale of distilled spirits or wine
or malt beverages at retail shall cause, permit, or engage in any of the
actions, business, or transactions authorized and permitted thereby.
      (1)   During those times, all persons who have such city licenses shall
cause the licensed premises to be closed and vacated by all persons except the
applicant and those persons identified on the application for the city licenses
or any supplements thereto as officers, agents, or employees of the person to
whom the city license was issued and all other persons shall vacate the
licensed premises and remove themselves therefrom during those times.
      (2)   Any person upon the premises who purchased any alcoholic beverages
by the drink from the licensee within 30 minutes prior to any such times may
remain upon the premises for a period not to exceed 30 minutes thereafter for
the sole purpose of the consumption of the drink purchased.
      (3)   If a separate department of the licensed premises is maintained in
a manner previously approved in writing by the City Alcohol Beverage Control
Administrator as being capable of being locked, closed off, and separated from
the remainder of the licensed premises and all distilled spirits, wine, and
malt beverages and all fixtures and apparatus connected with the acts of
business and transactions authorized by the state licenses and city licenses
for the retail sale of distilled spirits, wine, and malt beverages from the
premises as located within the approved department and the approved department
is continuously kept locked, physically separated, and closed off from the
remainder of the licensed premises during those times, then the remainder of
the licensed premises may remain open and any lawful activity conducted thereon
during those times.
(Ord. l-7-84, passed - -84; Am. Ord. 199(6-11-03), passed 6-11-03; Am. Ord. 340
(3-13-19), passed 3-13-19) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09 REGULATIONS AND PROHIBITIONS GOVERNING LICENSEE.
   At all times during which any person has a valid city license issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, the person shall fully comply with
all of the following rules, regulations, requirements, and prohibitions.
   (A)   A city licensee shall maintain the state license to which the city
license corresponds and fully comply with all state statutes and the rules and
regulations of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board in regard thereto.
   (B)   A city licensee shall comply fully with all of the provisions hereof
and all of the rules and regulations of the Alcohol Beverage Control
Administrator in regard thereto. All provisions of the state statutes and the
rules and regulations of the Board in regard to the licensed premises and the
actions, business, and transactions conducted thereon subsequent to the
issuance of a state license and prior to the expiration, revocation, or
suspension thereof which are hereby incorporated herein and made applicable to
all city licenses corresponding thereto and the premises described therein and
the actions, business, and transactions conducted thereon, and the city
licensee shall comply fully with those provisions.
   (C)   A city licensee who has a valid city retail distilled spirits, wine,
or malt beverage license shall cause to be displayed in a conspicuous and
prominent place on the licensed premises all valid city licenses issued
therefor and the state licenses to which they correspond. The failure to so
display the licenses shall be prima facie evidence that no such valid licenses
have been issued or exist and all actions, business, and transactions
authorized thereby conducted on such premises are illegal and in violation of
the provisions of this section and the state statutes and regulations of the
Board in regard thereto.
   (D)   A city licensee shall not cause, permit, or engage in any conduct upon
the licensed premises by either the commission of a prohibited act or the
omission of a required act which is a crime or other violation of any law,
rule, or regulation of any governmental agency having jurisdiction thereof or
any officer or agency thereof.
   (E)   A city licensee who has a valid city wholesale or retail distilled
spirits, wine, or malt beverage license must conduct the actions, business, and
transactions authorized thereby upon the licensed premises and when no such
actions, business, or transactions are conducted thereon for a period of 90
consecutive calendar days then the city license shall become null and void and
revoked by the City Alcohol Beverage Control Administrator unless:
      (1)   The city licensee is unable to continue in business at the premises
for which a license is issued due to an act of God, casualty, the acquisition
of the premises by any federal, state, city, or other governmental agency under
power of eminent domain, acquisition of any private corporation through its
power of eminent domain granted to it whether such acquisition is voluntary or
involuntary, or loss of lease through failure of the landlord to renew the
existing lease.
      (2)   Prior to the discontinuance of business at the licensed premises or
immediately thereupon if such is due to an act of God, the city licensee
delivers to the Alcohol Beverage Control Administrator, a written statement
signed by the city licensee and verified by the oath or affirmation thereof
indicating the discontinuance of business at the licensed premises for any of
the causes or reasons described herein.
   (F)   A city licensee shall not assign or transfer any city license to any
other person or premises unless the person or premises comply with all of the
provisions of this chapter and the transfer of the license is approved by the
Alcohol Beverage Control Administrator, and the transfer of the state license
to which the city license corresponds is approved by the state. A transfer fee
of $10 shall be paid to the city for the transfer of the city license.
(Ord. 1-7-84, passed - -84) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.10 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the procedure described herein, city licenses may be
either revoked or suspended by the Alcohol Beverage Control Administrator upon
the occurrence of:
      (1)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter or any other
ordinance of the city; or
      (2)   Any violation of any provision of state law in regard to alcoholic
beverages or the rules and regulations of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control
Board in regard thereto; or
      (3)   Any other cause, reason, or circumstance for which a state license
may be revoked or suspended by the Board. City licenses must be revoked by the
Alcohol Beverage Control Administrator upon the occurrence of any cause or
circumstance which requires revocation of a state license to which a city
license corresponds. With the approval of the City Alcohol Beverage Control
Administrator a licensee may, as an alternative and in lieu of part of or all
of the, days of any suspension period, pay the following sums to the city:
distillers, rectifiers, vintners, brewers, and blenders, $1,000 per day;
wholesale liquor licenses, $400 per day; wholesale beer licenses, $400 per day;
retail drink liquor licenses, $50 per day; retail package liquor licenses, $50
per day; retail beer licensees, $25 per day; all remaining licensees, $10 per
day.
   (B)   The procedure for the revocation or suspension of a city license shall
consist of a written notice signed by the Alcohol Beverage Control
Administrator and mailed to the licensee at the address of the licensed
premises by certified mail, describing the cause, circumstance, or occurrence
and the time and date thereof for which the city license may be revoked and
indicating the time and place of a hearing in regard thereto at least five days
thereafter at which the licensee and the representatives thereof shall be
heard. The hearing shall be conducted by the Alcohol Beverage Control
Administrator in the city and according to the procedure prescribed by the
Board for hearings by the Board as supplemented by the regulations of the City
Alcohol Beverage Control Administrator. The Alcohol Beverage Control
Administrator shall control and make all decisions in regard to the
introduction of evidence and shall hear all arguments in regard thereto. At the
conclusion of the hearing, the Alcohol Beverage Control Administrator shall
issue a written decision in regard thereto and mail a certified copy to the
licensee at the address of the licensed premises by certified or registered
mail.
(Ord. 1-7-84, passed - -84)
§ 111.11 OPEN CONTAINERS.
   (A)   As used herein, the following words and phrases have the meanings
indicated therefor:
      (1)   The words "ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE" have the same meaning as that
provided in KRS 241.010.
      (2)   The words "CITY PROPERTY" mean any real estate, buildings,
structures or vehicles owned or leased by the City of Taylor Mill.
      (3)   The word "EVERYBODY" mean every human being, and every combination
thereof, in the form of a corporation, partnership, joint venture,
unincorporated association or otherwise.
      (4)   The word "NOBODY" means no human being, or any combination thereof,
in the form of a corporation, partnership, joint venture, unincorporated
association or otherwise.
   (B)   Nobody shall cause, promote, aid, assist, encourage, allow or engage
in either the possession, location or use of alcoholic beverages in open
containers within or upon any city property, except for:
      (1)   All of the real estate described in a deed to the city recorded at
OR Book I-269, P.168 of the Kenton County Clerk’s records at Independence,
Kentucky with PIDN #058-40-00-171.01 which is commonly known and identified as
5606 Taylor Mill Road;
      (2)   All of that portion of the real estate described in a deed to the
city recorded at Deed Book 439, P.68 of the Kenton County Clerk’s records at
Independence, Kentucky with PIDN #058-40-00-171.00 which is commonly known and
identified as Pride Park at 5614 Taylor Mill Road, which is written within ten
feet of the rest room and shelter house facility thereon.
      (3)   Those alcoholic beverages which are within the custody of any
officer, agent or employee of the City of Taylor Mill, as evidence in any
civil, criminal or administrative proceedings, and which are documented as such
by the custodian thereof.
(Ord. 85 (10-25-95), passed 10-25-95; Am. Ord. 180 (9-26-01), passed 9-26-01)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter, in
which no penalty is given) shall be, upon conviction, guilty of a misdemeanor
and fined for each offense or violation of no less than $10 and no more than
$500 or sentenced to imprisonment for no more than 90 days or both. (Ord. 1-7-
84, passed - -84)
   (B)   Each violation and every other failure to comply with the provisions
of §
111.11 shall be a misdemeanor; and each day of the continuation thereof shall
be a separate and distinct offense for which:
      (1)   Everybody convicted thereof in a court of competent jurisdiction
shall be sentenced to pay a criminal fine not to exceed the maximum amount of
$500.00 as set forth in KRS 534.040 (2)(a) or a term of imprisonment not to
exceed to the maximum period of twelve (12) months as set forth in KRS 532.090
(1), or both; and
      (2)   The offender shall be subject to a civil penalty of One Hundred
($100.00) Dollars for each offense, which shall be recovered by the City of
Taylor Mill in a civil action in the nature of debt if not paid by the offender
within thirty (30) days after citation for the violation or other failure to
comply with the provisions of §
111.11.
      (3)   The offender shall be subject to the disciplinary procedures of the
Personnel Policies of the City of Taylor Mill, if the offender is subject
thereto.
(Ord. 85 (10-25-95), passed 10-25-95)
CHAPTER 112: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Bond
   
112.03   Register to be kept; daily reports
   
112.04   Receipt to be given for each article; sale of article
   
112.05   Maximum interest, resale price
   
112.06   Receipt to be given for payment of loan
   
112.07   Prohibited activities
   
112.08   Enforcement
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "PAWNBROKER." Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property;
deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the property
back again at a stipulated price; makes a public display at his place of
business of the sign generally used by pawnbrokers to denote their business; or
who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on personal property or
deposit.
(KRS 226.010)
§ 112.02 BOND.
   Every person to whom a city license is granted to carry on the business of a
pawnbroker shall annually enter into bond to the city, with good and sufficient
surety to be approved by the City Commission, in the penal sum of $1,000. This
bond shall be conditioned that he will observe the provisions of this chapter
and all ordinances and laws in force in the city not inconsistent with this
chapter.
(KRS 226.020)
§ 112.03 REGISTER TO BE KEPT; DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and purchases of
all articles effected or made by him. The register shall show the dates of all
loans or purchases, and the names of all persons who have left any property on
deposit as collateral security or as a delivery or sale. Opposite the names and
dates shall be written in plain hand a full description of all property
purchased or received on deposit as collateral security, the time when the loan
falls due, the amount of purchase money, the amount loaned, and the interest
charged The register shall at all times be open to the inspection of any police
officer of the city when in the discharge of his official duty.
(KRS 226.040)
   (B)   Every pawnbroker shall, by 11:00 a.m. each day, furnish to the Chief
of Police a true and correct written report of all goods received by him or
her, whether by pawn or purchase, during the twenty-four (24) hours preceding
each report. The report shall describe the goods as accurately as
practicable.The Chief of Police shall furnish blanks for these reports.
(KRS 226.070) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR EACH ARTICLE; SALE OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall give a plain written or printed ticket for the
loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased or upon which money is loaned,
having on each a copy of the entries required by §
112.03(A) to be kept in his register. He shall not make any charge for the
ticket or receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of sixty
(60) days from the maturity of the loan. However, not less than ten days before
making the sale, the pawnbroker shall give notice to the person by whom the
article was pawned by mail addressed to the post office address of that person
as shown on the pawnbroker's register, notifying such person that, unless he
redeems the article within ten (10) days from the date of mailing of the
notice, the article will be sold.
(KRS 226.050) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 MAXIMUM INTEREST, RESALE PRICE.
   Any pawnbroker as defined in §
112.01, may, in loaning money on deposit of personal property, charge, contract
for, or receive interest at a rate not exceeding 2% per month on the unpaid
principal balance of the loan, and may charge, contract for, and receive a
reasonable fee, not to exceed one-fifth of the value of the loan per month, for
investigating the title, storing and insuring the property, closing the loan,
making daily reports to local law enforcement officers if required by §
112.03, and for other expenses, losses, and incidental costs associated with
servicing such loans. Further, this fee, when made and collected, shall not be
deemed as interest for any purpose of law. No pawnbroker shall directly or
indirectly charge, receive, or contract for any interest or consideration
greater than that allowed by this section.
(KRS 226.080) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR PAYMENT OF LOAN.
   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower, shall
give to that person a plain and complete receipt for such payment, specifying
separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to interest.
In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased personal property under an
agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on
receiving any payment of money from the person from whom the property was
purchased, give that person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the
stipulated resale price, and the amount received.
(KRS 226.090) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of either pledge or pawn, any article
whatever from a minor at any time nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
(KRS 226.030) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter unless
otherwise provided by KRS 226.100. However, county police, for the purpose of
locating stolen goods, may carry out the provisions of KRS 226.060 within the
city.
(KRS 226.100)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any pawnbroker or pawnbroker's clerk who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be, upon conviction, guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not
less than $50 nor more than $500, and his license may be forfeited to the city.
(KRS 226.990 (1))
CHAPTER 113: GARAGE SALES
Section
   
113.01   Permit required; number of sales limited
   
113.02   Form of permit and fee
   
113.03   Display of permit required
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 PERMIT REQUIRED; NUMBER OF SALES LIMITED.
   No person shall cause, permit, or attend the sale of used personal items
from a residence, commonly referred to as "yard sales" or "garage sales,"
conducted on any lot or parcel of land in the city:
   (A)   For which a permit has not been issued and displayed pursuant to the
terms of this chapter; or
   (B)   Which has been conducted on the lot or parcel of land for more than
two consecutive days, or more than a total of four days during any calendar
year.
('78 Code, 460.1, § I) (Ord. 1-9-77, passed 9-9-76) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.02 FORM OF PERMIT AND FEE.
   (A)   The permit referred to in §
113.01 shall be in such form as is determined by the City Commission and shall
indicate the location at which the sale is authorized and the days upon which
the sale is authorized. ('78 Code, 460.1, § II)
   (B)   The permit referred to in §
113.01 shall be issued by the City Clerk/Tax Collector upon application by any
resident of the city and the payment of a fee in the amount of $2. No permit
shall be issued for such sales on any lot or parcel of land in the city for
more than two consecutive days or for more than a total of four days during any
calendar year. ('78 Code, 460.1, § III)
(Ord. 1-9-77, passed 9-9-76) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 DISPLAY OF PERMIT REQUIRED.
   The permit referred to in §
113.01 shall be displayed at all times during the sale at a location on the lot
or parcel of real estate where it may be observed from a public highway.
('78 Code, 460.1, § IV) (Ord. 1-9-77, passed 9-9-76) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the terms or provisions of this chapter shall
be, upon conviction, guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more than $500.
('78 Code, 460.1, § V) (Ord. 1-9-77, passed 9-9-76)
CHAPTER 114: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
114.01   Imposition of license fees or taxes
   
114.02   License required
   
114.03   Application
   
114.04   Fees
   
114.05   Due date; interest
   
114.06   License certificate contents; valid period
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEES OR TAXES.
   Pursuant to the authority of Section 181 of the Kentucky Constitution and
KRS 91A.080 and 92.281, there is hereby imposed and levied upon insurance
companies that are engaged in the business of insurance in the city, the
following described license fees or taxes for the privilege thereof.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the license fee or tax imposed is to provide
revenue for the general operating expenses of the city. All receipts thereof
shall be deposited in the General Fund.
   (B)   Exempt premiums. Premiums on the following described policies of
insurance shall be exempt from the license fee or tax:
      (1)   Worker's Compensation Insurance;
      (2)   Group health insurance provided for state employees under KRS
18A.225;
      (3)   Policies issued to public service companies which pay ad valorem
taxes;
      (4)   Health insurance policies issued to individuals; and
      (5)   Health insurance policies issued through Kentucky Access created in
KRS 304.17B-005.
   (C)   Credit against county license fees or taxes. Pursuant to KRS 91A.090
(12), insurance companies which pay license fees or taxes pursuant to this
chapter shall credit those license fees or taxes against the same license fees
or taxes levied by Kenton County on or after July 13, 1990.
(Ord. 1-4-78, passed 4-13-78; Am. Ord. 1-5-88, passed 6-20-88; Am. Ord. 220 (3-
9-05), passed 3-9-05)
§ 114.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   All insurance companies are prohibited from engaging in the insurance
business within the corporate limits of the city without a valid license issued
by the City Clerk/Tax Collector. For the purposes of this chapter, engaging in
the insurance business in the corporate limits of the city includes, but is not
limited to:
   (A)   Any act of an insurance company, its officers, agents, servants,
employees, or contractors within the corporate limits of the city; or
   (B)   Issuance of policies of insurance for risks located within the
corporate limits of the city; or
   (C)   Issuance of policies of insurance to persons who are residents of the
city or who conduct business therein; or
   (D)   Appointment of agents who conduct business in the city.
(Ord. 1-4-78, passed 4-13-78) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 APPLICATION.
   (A)   City insurance business licenses shall be issued by the City Clerk/Tax
Collector upon the receipt of an application on a form provided by the city
which shall set forth the information required under division (B); which shall
be signed by an officer or agent of the applicant under penalties of perjury;
and which shall indicate the name and address of the applicant.
(Ord. 1-4-78, passed 4-13-78)
   (B)   Annual reports. Annually, by March 31st, each insurer shall furnish
the city with a breakdown of all collections in the preceding calendar year for
the following categories of insurance:
      (1)   Casualty.
      (2)   Automobile.
      (3)   Inland marine.
      (4)   Fire and allied perils.
      (5)   Life.
(Ord. 1-5-88, passed 6-20-88; Am. Ord. 220 (3-9-05), passed 3-9-05)
§ 114.04 FEES.
   (A)   Life insurance. The license fee or tax imposed upon an insurance
company with respect to life insurance policies shall be 8% of the first year
premiums actually collected by each insurance company subject to the provisions
hereof within each calendar quarter on risks located within the corporate
limits of the city.
   (B)   Insurance other than life insurance. The license fee or tax imposed on
insurance companies with respect to any policy of insurance which is not a life
insurance policy shall be 8% of the premiums actually collected by the
insurance company within each calendar quarter on risks located within the
corporate limits of the city on those classes of business which the company is
authorized to transact, less all premiums returned to policy holders. In
determining the amount of license fee or tax to be collected and to be paid to
the city, the insurance company shall use the tax rate effective on the first
day of the policy term. When an insurance company collects a premium as a
result of a change in the policy during the policy term, the tax rate used
shall be the rate in effect on the effective date of the policy change. With
respect to premiums returned to policy holders, the license fee or tax shall be
returned by the insurance company to the policy holder pro-rata on the
unexpired amount of the premiums at the same rate at which it was collected and
shall be taken as a credit by the insurance company on its next quarterly
report to the city. Any license fee or tax imposed upon premium receipts shall
not include premiums received for insuring employers against liability for
personal injuries to their employees, or the death of their employees, caused
thereby under the provisions of the Worker's Compensation Act of Kentucky.
(Am. Ord. 1-7-86, passed 7-21-86; Am. Ord. 1-5-88, passed 6-20-88; Am. Ord. 220
(3-9-05), passed 3-9-05)
§ 114.05 DUE DATE; INTEREST.
   (A)   The license fees or taxes imposed shall be due 30 days after the end
of each calendar quarter.
   (B)   Any license fee or tax imposed that is not paid on or before the due
date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in KRS 131.010 (6)
from the date due until paid.
(Ord. 220 (3-9-05), passed 3-9-05)
§ 114.06 LICENSE CERTIFICATE CONTENTS; VALID PERIOD.
   (A)   The city insurance business license shall be in the form
consecutively-numbered documents which shall indicate:
      (1)   The name and address of the insurance company licensed;
      (2)   The amount of tax paid by the insurance company pursuant to the
terms of this chapter;
      (3)   The date the license was issued; and
      (4)   The date the license expires.
   (B)   All city insurance business licenses issued pursuant to the terms of
this chapter shall be valid only during the period of time from the date of
issuance of the license until, but excluding the first day of the month of
January following the date of the issuance of the license.
(Ord. 1-4-78, passed 4-13-78)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any insurance company and any officer, agent, servant, employee, or
contractor thereof who performs any act which constitutes a violation of this
chapter shall be, upon conviction, guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not less
than $100 nor more than $500.
(Ord. 1-4-78, passed 4-13-78)
CHAPTER 115: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Prohibitions
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ANTI-SOLICITATION PROPERTY." Any property in the city that has been either:
      (1)   Posted with signs with the words "No Solicitors" or "No
Trespassing" or other words of similar import thereon; or
      (2)   Registered by an owner or occupant thereof with the City Clerk as
property to which uninvited solicitors are prohibited.
   "ANYBODY." Any human being, or organization or combination thereof in the
form of a corporation, partnership, joint venture, unincorporated association
or otherwise.
   "COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION." The solicitation of contributions or pledges, the
sales of goods or service, or orders or subscriptions therefore, including,
without limitation, the activities of those historically known and identified
as peddlers, hawkers, canvassers, itinerant vendors and transient merchants.
   "EVERYBODY." Every human being, or organization or combination thereof in
the form of a corporation, partnership, joint venture, unincorporated
association or otherwise.
   "NOBODY." No human being, or any organization or combination thereof in the
form of a corporation, partnership, joint venture, unincorporated association
or otherwise.
   "NON-COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION." All solicitation other than commercial
solicitation as defined herein.
   "REGISTERED SOLICITOR." A solicitor who has obtained a city occupational
license and registered with the City Clerk therefore for uninvited residential
solicitation, as defined herein, by completing a solicitor registration form
provided thereby, which shall provide the following information about the
solicitor:
      (1)   Legal name and all aliases.
      (2)   Date and place of birth.
      (3)   Residence address and telephone number.
      (4)   Name, address and telephone number of employer.
      (5)   Criminal history for the last three years, including, without
limitation, all offenses for which the solicitor has been prosecuted or
convicted and the location thereof.
      (6)   A copy of the solicitor's license to operate a motor vehicle.
      (7)   The make, model, year, color, state of registration and
registration number of each motor vehicle used by or for the solicitor.
      (8)   Social Security number.
   "SOLICITATION." The solicitation of contributions, the sales of goods or
services or pledges, orders or subscriptions therefore, including, without
limitation, the activities of those historically known and identified as
peddlers, hawkers, canvassers, itinerant vendors and transient merchants.
   "SOLICITOR." Anybody who engages in solicitation.
   "UNINVITED RESIDENTIAL SOLICITATION." A solicitation at a residence in the
city, without a prior appointment or other invitation therefore by an owner or
occupant of the residence.
(Ord. 209 (4-28-04), passed 4-28-07)
§ 115.02 PROHIBITIONS.
   Nobody shall cause, permit, promote, suffer, allow, aid, assist, encourage
or engage in any of the following described uninvited residential
solicitations:
   (A)   Either commercial or non-commercial solicitation on any anti-
solicitation property;
   (B)   Commercial solicitation by anybody other than a registered solicitor;
or
   (C)   Commercial solicitation on any day before 8:00 a.m. or after 6:00
p.m., prevailing time.
(Ord. 209 (4-28-04), passed 4-28-07) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Each violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor for which everybody
convicted thereof in a court of competent jurisdiction shall be sentenced to
pay a criminal fine not to exceed the maximum amount of $500 as set forth in
KRS 534.050 (2)(a) or a term of imprisonment not to exceed the maximum period
of 12 months as set forth in KRS 532.090 (1), or both.
(Ord. 209 (4-28-04), passed 4-28-07)
CHAPTER 116: FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
Section
   
116.01   Franchise tax imposed
   
116.02   Tax to be percentage of deposits
   
116.03   Schedule for payment of tax
   
116.04   Lien imposed on property of financial institutions
   
116.05   Use of franchise tax
§ 116.01 FRANCHISE TAX IMPOSED.
   Pursuant to the authority of KRS Chapter 136, the city hereby levies and
imposes an annual franchise tax upon all financial institutions, as defined in
KRS Chapter 136, with offices within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 144 (2-10-99), passed 2-10-99)
§ 116.02 TAX TO BE PERCENTAGE OF DEPOSITS.
   The annual franchise tax hereby levied and imposed shall be at the rate of
0.025% of all deposits, as defined in KRS Chapter 136, maintained by each
financial institution subject thereto.
(Ord. 144 (2-10-99), passed 2-10-99)
§ 116.03 SCHEDULE FOR PAYMENT OF TAX.
   The schedule for the bills and payment of the annual franchise tax levied
and imposed hereby shall be as follows:
   (A)   The city shall cause a bill for the annual franchise tax levied and
imposed hereby to be issued to each financial institution subject thereto, on
or before the 1st day of December of each calendar year.
   (B)   The franchise tax levied and imposed hereby shall be due and payable
to the city on the 31st day of December of each year, at the office of the City
Clerk; and shall be subject to a discount of 2% thereof if paid prior thereto;
and shall become delinquent on the 31st day of January of the following year;
and, thereafter, there shall be added thereto a penalty of 20% thereof, plus
interest thereon at the rate of 6% per annum, until paid, plus the costs of
collection, including, without limitation, court costs and attorney's fees.
(Ord. 144 (2-10-99), passed 2-10-99)
§ 116.04 LIEN IMPOSED ON PROPERTY OF FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS.
   In order to secure the payment of the annual franchise tax levied and
imposed hereby, and all penalties, interest, fees, commissions, charges and
other expenses, including court costs and attorney's fees, incurred by reason
of any delinquency in the payment thereof or the process of collection. a lien
is hereby imposed by the city upon all property in the city which is owned by
the financial institutions liable therefor; and such lien has priority over all
other obligations or liabilities for which the property is liable, except state
and county taxes. with which is has equal priority.
(Ord. 144 (2-10-99), passed 2-10-99)
§ 116.05 USE OF FRANCHISE TAX.
   All taxes, interest and other sums received by the city pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter shall be deposited in the general fund of the city,
and appropriated and used for the general operating expenses thereof.
(Ord. 144 (2-10-99), passed 2-10-99)
CHAPTER 117: MOTOR VEHICLE SALES
Section
   
117.01   Motor vehicle sales regulations
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 MOTOR VEHICLE SALES REGULATIONS.
   Nobody shall cause, promote, aid assist, encourage, allow or engage in the
use of any private real estate in the city for the sale, or the advertisement
for sale of any motor vehicle which isn't registered at either:
   (A)   The address of the real estate;
   (B)   The residence address of the owner of the real estate.
(Ord. 139 (10-21-98), passed 10-21-98) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   Each violation and every other failure to comply with the provisions of §
117.01 shall be a misdemeanor; and each day of the continuation thereof shall
be a separate and distinct offense for which:
   (A)   Everybody convicted thereof in a court of competent jurisdiction shall
be sentenced to pay a criminal fine not to exceed the maximum amount of $500.00
as set forth in KRS 534.040 (2)(a) or a term of imprisonment not to exceed the
maximum period of twelve (12) months as set forth in KRS 532.090 (1), or both;
and
   (B)   The offender shall be subject to a civil penalty of One Hundred
($100.00) Dollars for each offense, which shall be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of debt if not paid by the offender within thirty
(30) days after citation for the violation or other failure to comply with the
provisions of §
117.01.
(Ord. 139 (10-21-98), passed 10-21-98)
CHAPTER 118: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
118.01   Purpose and findings
   
118.02   Definitions
   
118.03   License requirement
   
118.04   License fees
   
118.05   Form and contents of sexually oriented business licenses and
applications
   
118.06   Application information confidential and privileged
   
118.07   Oath and signature to application
   
118.08   License application process
   
118.09   Transfer of license
   
118.10   Prohibited acts
   
118.11   Additional regulations for adult motels
   
118.12   Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit films,
videos or live entertainment in peep booths
   
118.13   Additional regulations for escort services
   
118.14   Additional regulations for nude model studios
   
118.15   License expirations, suspensions and revocations
   
118.16   Appeal and judicial review of license denials, suspension and
revocations
   
118.17   Exemptions
   
118.18   Other fees and taxes
 
   
118.99   Penalties
§ 118.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented
businesses in order to promote the public health, safety, morals, and general
welfare. The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor the effect
of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the
intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to
sexually oriented materials protected by the Federal and State Constitutions,
or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented
entertainment to their intended market. Likewise, it is neither the intent nor
effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene
material.
   (B)   Based on evidence concerning the adverse secondary effects of adult
uses on the community presented in hearings and in reports made available to
the City Commission, and on findings incorporated in the cases of City of
Renton v. Playtime Theatres Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986), Young v. American Mini
Theatres, 426 U.S. 50 (1976), and Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560
(1991) and also based on studies in other communities including, but not
limited to, Phoenix, Arizona; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Houston, Texas;
Indianapolis, Indiana; Amarillo, Texas; Garden Grove, California; Los Angeles,
California; Whittier, California; Austin, Texas; Seattle, Washington; Oklahoma
City, Oklahoma; Cleveland, Ohio; and Beaumont, Texas; and also based on
findings from the Report of the Attorney General's Working Group On The
Regulation Of Sexually Oriented Businesses. (June 6,1989, State of Minnesota),
the City Commission hereby finds as follows:
      (1)   Sexually oriented businesses lend themselves to ancillary unlawful
and unhealthy activities that are presently uncontrolled by the operators of
the establishments. Further, there is presently no mechanism to make the owners
of these establishments responsible for the activities that occur on their
premises.
      (2)   Certain employees of sexually oriented businesses defined in this
ordinance as adult theatres and cabarets engage in higher incidence of certain
types of illicit sexual behavior than employees of other establishments.
      (3)   Sexual acts, including masturbation, and oral and anal sex occur at
sexually oriented businesses, especially those which provide private or
semiprivate booths or cubicles for viewing films, videos, or live sex shows.
      (4)   Offering and providing such space encourages such activities, which
creates unhealthy conditions.
      (5)   Certain persons frequent adult theatres, adult arcades, and other
sexually oriented businesses for the purpose of engaging in sex within the
premises of such sexually oriented businesses.
      (6)   At least 50 communicable diseases may be spread by activities
occurring in sexually oriented businesses, including, but riot limited to,
syphilis, gonorrhea, human immunodeficiency virus infection (HIV-AIDS), genital
herpes, hepatitis B, Non A, Non B amebiasis, salmonella infections and shigella
infections.
      (7)   Since 1981 and to December 1998, there has been an increasing
cumulative number of reported cases of AIDS caused by the human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in the United States.
      (8)   As of March 31,1999, there have been 7,893 reported cases of AIDS
in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and 265 reported in Northern Kentucky. The
Commonwealth of Kentucky does not require HIV reporting.
      (9)   Since 1981 and to the present, there have been an increasing
cumulative number of persons testing positive for the HIV antibody test.
      (10)   Approximately 40,000 people contracted the virus each year, with
approximately one-half doing so by sexual transmission.
      (11)   The number of cases of early (less than one year) syphilis in the
United States reported annually has risen, with 33,613 cases reported in 1982
and 45,200 through November of 1990.
      (12)   The number of estimated new annual cases of STDs in Kentucky is
208,700. These diseases result in estimated annual direct medical costs of
$114.5 million dollars. These diseases include chlamydia, gonorrhea, syphilis
trichomoniasis, genital herpes, human papilloma virus, hepatitis B, and HIV/
AIDS.
      (13)   The number of cases of gonorrhea in the United States reported
annually remains at a high level; with over one-half million cases being
reported in 1990.
      (14)   The surgeon general of the United States in his report of October
22,1986, has advised the American public that AIDS and HIV infection may be
transmitted through sexual contact, intravenous drug abuse, exposure to
infected blood and blood components, and from an infected mother to her
newborn.
      (15)   According to the best scientific evidence, AIDS and HIV infection,
as well as syphilis and gonorrhea, are principally transmitted by sexual acts.
      (16)   Sanitary conditions in some sexually oriented businesses are
unhealthy, in part, because the activities conducted there are unhealthy, and,
in part, because of the unregulated nature of the activities and the failure of
the owners and the operators of the facilities to self regulate those
activities and maintain those facilities.
      (17)   Numerous studies and reports have determined that semen is found
in the areas of sexually oriented businesses where persons view "adult"
oriented films.
      (18)   The findings identified in the preceding paragraphs numbered 1
through 17 raise substantial governmental concerns.
      (19)   Sexually oriented businesses have operational characteristics
which should be reasonably regulated in order to protect those substantial
governmental concerns.
      (20)   A reasonable licensing procedure is an appropriate mechanism to
place the burden of that reasonable regulation on the owners and the operators
of the sexually oriented businesses. Further, such a licensing procedure will
place a heretofore nonexistent incentive on the operators to see that the
sexually oriented business is run in a manner consistent with the health,
safety and welfare of its patrons and employees, as well as the citizens of the
city. It is appropriate to require reasonable assurances that the licensee is
the actual operator of the sexually oriented business, fully in possession and
control of the premises and activities occurring therein.
      (21)   Removal of doors on adult booths, and requiring sufficient
lighting on premises with adult booths, advances a substantial governmental
interest in limiting and eliminating the illegal and unsanitary sexual activity
occurring in adult theatres.
      (22)   Requiring operators of sexually oriented businesses to keep
information regarding current and past employees will help reduce the incidence
of certain types of criminal behavior by facilitating the identification of
potential witnesses or suspects and by preventing minors from working in such
establishments.
      (23)   The disclosure of certain information by those persons ultimately
responsible for the day-to-day operation and maintenance of the sexually
oriented business, where such information is substantially related to the
significant governmental interest in the operation of such uses, will aid in
preventing the spread of sexually transmitted diseases.
      (24)   In the prevention of the spread of communicable diseases it is
desirable to obtain a limited amount of information regarding certain
employees, who may engage in the conduct which this chapter is designed to
prevent, or who are likely to be witnesses to such activity.
      (25)   The fact that an applicant for an adult use license has been
convicted of a sexually related crime, leads to the rational assumption that
the applicant may engage in that conduct in contravention of this chapter.
      (26)   The barring of such individuals from the management of adult uses
for a period of years serves as a deterrent to and prevents conduct which leads
to the transmission of sexually transmitted diseases.
      (27)   The public health, safety, morals and general welfare will be
promoted by the enactment of this chapter.
(Ord. 175 (6-27-01), passed 6-27-01)
§ 118.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ADULT ARCADE." Any place to which the public is permitted or invited
wherein coin-operated, slug-operated, electronically, electrically or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other
image-producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons
per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by the depicting or describing of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   "ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, OR ADULT VIDEO STORE." A business
having as a substantial and significant portion of its stock and trade,
revenues, space or advertising expenditures, resulting from the sale, renting
or viewing of one or more of the following:
      (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed material, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
laser disks, slides or other visual representations which depict or described
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
      (2)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia, which are designed for,
specified sexual activities.
   "ADULT CABARET." A nightclub, bar, tavern, restaurant or similar business
which regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or partial nudity;
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; or
      (3)   Film, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions, which are characterized by the depiction or description of,
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   "ADULT MOTEL." A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas"; and has a sign visible from the
public right of way which advertises the availability of this adult type of
photographic reproductions;
      (2)   Offers or advertises a sleeping room for rent for a period of Lime
that is less than ten hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub rent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
   "ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER." A business where films, motion pictures,
videocassettes, slides or similar photographic reproductions are regularly
shown which are characterized by the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   "ADULT THEATER." A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar facility
which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity or partial
nudity or live performances which are characterized by the exposure or
specified anatomical areas of by specified sexual activities.
   "ANYBODY." Any human being, and/or any combination thereof in the form of
sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, joint venture, unincorporated
association, or otherwise.
   "APPLICABLE LAWS."The provisions of this chapter and the constitutions,
statues, ordinances, rules, regulations and other laws of the United States,
Commonwealth of Kentucky, County of Kenton, City of Taylor Mill, and any other
governmental entity or agency having jurisdiction.
   "EMPLOYEE." Includes any person who performs any service on the premises of
a sexually oriented business on a full-time, part-time or contract basis,
whether or not the person is denominated an employee, independent contractor,
agent or otherwise and whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage or
other compensation by the operator of said business. "EMPLOYEE" does not
include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the
premises or equipment on the premises, or for the delivery of goods to the
premises.
   "ESCORT." A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   "ESCORT AGENCY." A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
   "ESTABLISHMENT." Any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
      (3)   The additions of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   "EVERYBODY." Every human being, and/or any combination thereof, in the form
of a sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, joint venture,
unincorporated association or otherwise.
   "LICENSEE." Any body in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license; and in the case of an employee, a person in
whose name a license has been issued authorizing employment in a sexually
oriented business.
   "MANAGER." Any employee of a sexually oriented business who acts as a
manager or supervisor of other employees, finances or patrons of the business
or who is otherwise responsible for the operation of the business.
   "NOBODY." Not anybody, or no human being, or any combination thereof, in the
form of a sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, joint venture,
unincorporated association, or otherwise.
   "NUDE MODEL STUDIO." Any place where a person who appears semi-nude, in a
state of nudity, or who displays "specified anatomical areas" and is provided
to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons who pay money
or any form of consideration. "NUDE MODEL STUDIO" shall not include a
proprietary school licensed by the Commonwealth of Kentucky, or a college,
junior college or university supported entirely or in part by public taxation;
a private college or university which maintains and operates educational
programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior college, or
university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or in a structure:
      (1)   That has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure; and no
other advertising that indicates a nude or semi-nude person is available for
viewing;
      (2)   Where in order to participate in a class a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class; and
      (3)   Where no more than one nude or semi-nude model is on the premises
at any one time.
   "NUDITY OR A STATE OF NUDITY." The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with less than a
fully opaque covering, the showing of the female breast with less than a fully
opaque covering of any part of the nipple, or the showing of the covered male
genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
   "PEEP BOOTH." Any room, other than a private room, of less than 150 square
feet of floor space upon the premises of a sexually oriented business where
there is exhibited photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, or
other video reproductions, slides or other visual representations which depict
or describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   "PERSON." An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity, or anybody as defined herein.
   "PRIVATE ROOM." A room in an adult motel that is not a peep booth, has a bed
in the room, has a bath in the room or adjacent to the room, and is used
primarily for lodging.
   "REGULARLY." A recurring and substantial course of conduct, such that the
films or performances shown constitute a substantial portion of the films or
performances-offered as part of the regular activity of the sexually oriented
business.
   "SEMI-NUDE" or in "PARTIALLY-NUDE CONDITION." The showing of the female
breast below a horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest
point or the showing of the male or female buttocks. This definition shall
include the entire lower portion of the human female breast, but shall not
include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breast, exhibited by a
dress, blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing apparel provided
the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   "SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER." An establishment, business or commercial
enterprise that, as one of its principal business purposes, offers for any form
of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex;
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude;
or
      (3)   A place where two or more persons may congregate, associate or
consort for the purpose of specified sexual activities or the exposure of
specified anatomical areas, when one or more of the persons exposes any
specified anatomical area.
   "SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS." An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult
novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion
picture theater, adult theater, escort agency, nude model studio, or sexual
encounter establishment, or any similar operation.
   "SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS LICENSE." A license required by an ordinance of
the City of Taylor Mill, pursuant to its police power; for the purpose of the
regulation of sexually oriented business within the city, in a manner which
will protect the property values, neighborhoods and residents from the
potentially adverse secondary effects of sexually oriented businesses, while
providing an opportunity to patronize sexually oriented businesses for those
who are desirous thereof.
   "SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS LICENSE FEE." A fee required by an ordinance of
the City of Taylor Mill, pursuant to its police power, for each sexually
oriented business license, to provide the money necessary to pay the expenses
of policing and regulating sexually oriented business activities and operations
within the city, including, without limitation, the expense of issuing licenses
therefore.
   "SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS" are defined as follows:
      (1)   Less than complete and opaquely covered; human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks and female breast below a point above the top of the areola.
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   "SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY" means any of the following offenses:
      (1)   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of
obscenity; sale, distribution or display of harmful material to a minor; sexual
performance by a child; possession or distribution of child pornography; public
lewdness; indecent exposure; indecency with a child; engaging in organized
criminal activity; sexual assault; molestation of a child; gambling; or
distribution of a controlled substance; or any similar offenses to those
described above under the criminal or penal code of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky or other state or country;
      (2)   For which:
         (a)   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is
the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
         (b)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
         (c)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24-month
period.
      (3)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the disqualification of the applicant or a person residing with the
applicant.
   "SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES." Acts, simulated acts, exhibitions,
representations, depictions or description of:
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
      (2)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic regions,
buttocks and female breasts.
      (3)   Intrusion, however slight, of any object, any part of an animal's
body, or any part of a person's body into the genital or anal openings of any
person's body or into the body of an animal.
      (4)   Cunnilingus, fellatio, anilingus, masturbation, bestiality, lewd
exhibition of genitals or excretory function.
      (5)   Flagellation, mutilation or torture for purpose of sexual arousal,
gratification or abuse.
   "STAGE." A raised floor or platform at least three feet above the
surrounding floor measured perpendicularly from the edge of the stage to the
surrounding floor and at least 36 square feet in area.
   "SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT." Increase in floor areas occupied by the business
by more than 25 percent, as the floor areas exist on the date the provisions of
this chapter takes effect.
   "TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL." A sexually oriented business means and
includes any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal devise,
which transfers ownership or control of the business.
Editor’s note:
   A commercial establishment may have other principal business purposes that
"SEXUAL ACTIVITIES" or "SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS" and still be categorized as
"ADULT BOOKSTORE," "ADULT NOVELTY STORE," or "ADULT VIDEO STORE." Such other
business purposes will not serve to exempt such commercial establishments from
being categorized as an "ADULT BOOKSTORE," "ADULT NOVELTY STORE," or "ADULT
VIDEO STORE" so long as one of its principal business purposes is the offering
for sale or rental for consideration the specified materials which are
characterized by the depiction or description of "SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES"
or "SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS."
(Ord. 175 (6-27-01), passed 6-27-01)
§ 118.03 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   Pursuant to the police power of the city:
   (A)   An annual Taylor Mill Sexually Oriented Business Operators License is
hereby established and required of everybody who engages in any sexually
oriented business activity or operation within the city; and nobody shall
cause, promote, permit, allow, aid, assist, encourage, engage in or be employed
by any sexually oriented business activity or operation within the city which
doesn't have a valid Taylor Mill Sexually Oriented Business Operators License
prominently and conspicuously displayed to the public; and
   (B)   An annual Taylor Mill Sexually Oriented Business Employee License is
hereby established and required of everybody who is employed in any sexually
oriented business activity or operation within the city; and nobody shall
cause, promote, permit, allow, aid, assist, encourage, or engage in the
employment of anybody in any sexually oriented business activity or operation
who doesn't have a valid Taylor Mill Sexually Oriented Business Employee
License.
(Ord. 175 (6-27-01), passed 6-27-01)
§ 118.04 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS LICENSE FEES.
   Pursuant to the police power of the city, the following license fees are
hereby established:
   (A)   Sexually Oriented Business Operators Licenses. An initial application
fee of $850; and an annual renewal fee of $500.
   (B)   Sexually Oriented Business Employee Licenses. An initial application
fee of $350.00; and an annual renewal fee of $100.
(Ord. 175 (6-27-01), passed 6-27-01)
§ 118.05 FORM AND CONTENTS OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS LICENSES AND
APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Sexually Oriented Business Operators License. The form and content of
the Taylor Mill Sexually Oriented Business Operators License, and the
application therefore shall be determined by the City Administrative Officer,
but the application shall include, without limitation, sufficient information
for the identification of the sexually oriented business and the location
thereof, and the computation of the annual Taylor Mill occupational tax in
regard thereto., and sufficient information and authorization for a
determination by the city if the sexually oriented business which is the
subject of the application and the premises thereof conform to all applicable
laws, and shall include, without limitation, the following information:
      (1)   A description of the activities involved in the sexually oriented
business, which is the subject of the application, including, without
limitation:
         (a)   Any live nude entertainment activities; and
         (b)   Any activities within the definitions in this chapter for the
words "ADULT ARCADE", "ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE", "ADULT CABARET",
"ADULT MOTEL", "ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER", "ADULT THEATER", "PEEP BOOTH",
"PRIVATE ROOM", "SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT", "SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS".
      (2)   All applicants must be qualified according to the provisions of
this chapter. The application may request and the applicant shall provide such
information (including fingerprints) as to enable the city to determine whether
the applicant meets the qualifications established in this chapter.
      (3)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is
an individual, the person must sign the application for a license as applicant.
If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has a 5% or greater interest in the business
must sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must be
qualified under§
118.06 and each applicant shall be considered a licensee if a license is
granted.
      (4)   The completed application for a sexually oriented business license
shall contain the following information and shall be accompanied by the
following documents:
         (a)   If the applicant is:
            1.   An individual, the individual shall state his/her legal name
and any aliases and submit proof that he/she is at least 18 years of age,
unless alcoholic beverages are sold or dispensed then the applicant must submit
proof he/she is at least 21 years of age;
            2.   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name,
and the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited,
and a copy of the partnership agreement, if any;
            3.   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name,
the date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good
standing under the laws of its state of incorporation, the names and capacity
of all officers, directors and stockholders, and the name of the registered
corporate agent and the address of the registered office for service of
process.
      (5)   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant; he or she must state:
         (a)   Any sexually oriented business's fictitious name; and
         (b)   Submit the required registration documents.
      (6)   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant, has
been convicted of a specified criminal activity as defined in this chapter,
and, if so, the specified criminal activity involved, the date, place, and
jurisdiction of each conviction.
      (7)   Whether the applicant, or any person residing with the applicant,
has had a previous license under this ordinance or other similar sexually
oriented business ordinances from another city or county denied, suspended or
revoked, including the name and location of the sexually oriented business for
which the permit was denied, suspended or revoked, as well as the date of the
denial, suspension or revocation, and whether the applicant or any person
residing with the applicant has been a partner in a partnership or an officer,
director or stockholder of a corporation that is licensed under this ordinance
whose license has previously been denied, suspended or revoked, including the
name and location of the sexually oriented business for which the permit was
denied, suspended or revoked as well as the date of denial, suspension or
revocation.
      (8)   Whether the applicant or any person residing with the applicant
holds any other licenses under this ordinance or other similar sexually
oriented business ordinance from another city or county and, if so, the names
and locations of such other licensed businesses.
      (9)   The type of sexually oriented business in which the applicant will
be engaged.
      (10)   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business, including
a legal description of the property, street address, and telephone number(s),
if any.
      (11)   The applicant's mailing address and residential address.
      (12)   A recent photograph of the applicant(s).
      (13)   The applicant's driver's license number, Social Security number,
and/or his/her state or federally issued tax identification number.
      (14)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches.
      (15)   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within 30
days prior to application by a registered land surveyor depicting the property
lines and the structures containing any existing sexually oriented businesses
within 1000 feet of the property to be certified; the property lines of any
established religious institution/synagogue, school, or public park or
recreation area within 1000 feet of the property to be licensed. For purposes
of this chapter, a use shall be considered existing or established if it is in
existence at the time an application is submitted.
      (16)   If an applicant wishes to operate a sexually oriented business,
other than an adult motel, which shall exhibit on the premises, in a viewing
room or booth of less than 150 square feet of floor space, films video
cassettes, other video reproductions, or live entertainment which depict
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, then the applicant
shall comply with the application requirements set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Sexually Oriented Business Employees Licenses. The form and content of
the Taylor Mill Sexually Oriented Business Employees License, and the
application therefore, shall be determined by the City Administrative Officer;
but shall include, without limitation:
      (1)   The applicant's name and any other name (including "stage" names)
or aliases used by the individual;
      (2)   Age, date, and place of birth;
      (3)   Height, weight, hair and eye color;
      (4)   Present residence address and telephone number;
      (5)   Present business address and telephone number;
      (6)   Date, issuing state and number of driver's permit or other
identification card information;
      (7)   Social Security number;
      (8)   Proof that the applicant is at least 18 years of age or at least 21
years of age if the individual will be present when live nude performances
occur on the, premises or if alcoholic beverages are dispensed or sold on the
premises.
      (9)   A color photograph of the applicant clearing showing the front and
side views of the applicant's face; and the applicant's fingerprints on a form
provided by the city.
      (10)   The sexually oriented business license history of the applicant
for the five years immediately preceding the date of the application.
      (11)   A statement whether the applicant has been convicted of a
specified criminal activity as defined in this chapter and, if so, the
specified criminal activity involved, the date, place and jurisdiction of each.
      (12)   A statement whether the applicant has been convicted of a
specified criminal activity as defined in this chapter and, if so, the
specified criminal activity involved, the date, place and jurisdiction of each.
   (C)   The applicant has an affirmative duty to update information that is no
longer accurate on the application. This includes a duty to include address
changes and the like, and also includes a duty to inform the city if the
applicant is ever convicted of a "specified criminal activity" subsequent to
the application.
(Ord. 175 (6-27-01), passed 6-27-01)
§ 118.06 APPLICATION INFORMATION CONFIDENTIAL AND PRIVILEGED.
   (A)   All information provided in applications (business or employee) for
Taylor Mill Sexually Oriented Business Licenses shall be confidential and
privileged from public inspection; and shall not be disclosed to anyone other
than City officers and employees acting within the scope of their office,
occupation or employment, unless otherwise provided by law or judicial decree.
   (B)   Pursuant to KRS 61.878, the following public records are excluded from
the application of KRS 61.870 to 61.884 and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction: Records confidentially
disclosed to an agency, generally recognized as confidential or proprietary,
which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial advantage to
competitors of the entity that disclosed the records, and which are compiled
and maintained:
      (1)   In conjunction with an application for a loan; or
      (2)   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
(Ord. 175 (6-27-01), passed 6-27-01)
§ 118.07 OATH AND SIGNATURE TO APPLICATION.
   (A)   Each application for an Taylor Mill Sexually Oriented Business or
Employee License shall include the following statement at the end thereof KRS
523.030. Perjury in the second degree.
      (1)   A person is guilty of perjury in the second degree when he makes a
material false statement, which he does not believe in a subscribed written
instrument for which an oath is required or authorized by law with the intent
to mislead a public servant in the performance of his official functions.
      (2)   Perjury in the second degree is a Class A misdemeanor.
   (B)   Immediately after the aforedescribed statement, the applicant, or an
authorized representative thereof, who shall attest to the truth of the
statements therein; shall sign each application for a Kenton County Sexually
Oriented Business License and, the signature thereof shall then be notarized,
according to law.
(Ord. 175 (6-27-02), passed 6-27-01)
§ 118.08 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS LICENSE APPLICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   Each application for an Taylor Mill Sexually Oriented Business License
shall be initiated by the presentation of a completed application form to the
City Clerk, with both the annual Taylor Mill Sexually Oriented Business License
fee, and any Taylor Mill occupational license tax due from the applicant; and
no application for an Taylor Mill Sexually Oriented Business License shall be
accepted or received by the City Clerk, without payment of both the annual
Taylor Mill Sexually Oriented Business License fee, and any Taylor Mill
occupational license tax due from the applicant. Upon receipt thereof, the City
Clerk shall issue an itemized receipt for the amount of the Taylor Mill
Sexually Oriented License fee, and any Taylor Mill occupational license tax
paid with the application; but such receipt shall not be considered, construed
or interpreted as an approval of the application; and it shall not constitute
any entitlement for anybody to open, begin , maintain, or continue the sexually
oriented business which is the subject of the application. In the event of a
denial of the application, one-half of all sexually oriented business license
fees and occupational taxes paid with the application shall be refunded to the
applicant. Current licensees may continue operation during the renewal review
period.
   (B)   Each application for an Taylor Mill Sexually Oriented Business
License, that is received and accepted by the City Clerk, shall be referred to
the City Administrative Officer for review, to determine if any applicable law
would be violated by the operation of the sexually oriented business described
in the application, including without limitation the provisions of this
chapter, the applicable zoning ordinance, the Kentucky Building Code, and the
Kentucky Standards of Safety for Fire Prevention and Life Safety Regulations or
the provision of KRS Chapter 321.
      (1)   In the review of an application for an Taylor Mill Sexually
Oriented Business License, the City Administrative Officer may refer the
application to, or consult with, any other officer or employee of the city, or
any other county city, state or federal government, for review and comments.
      (2)   Within 21 days after the official receipt of an application for an
Taylor Mill Sexually Oriented Business License, by the City Clerk, the City
Administrative Officer shall notify the City Clerk, in writing, that either:
         (a)   The application should be approved because the operation of the
sexually oriented business described in the application would not violate any
applicable law;
         (b)   The application should be denied because the operation of the
sexually oriented business described in the application would violate
applicable laws, with an identification of the applicable laws that would be so
violated;
         (c)   The applicant has failed to provide information reasonably
necessary for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form;
         (d)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years;
         (e)   The applicant or any person residing with the applicant has been
convicted of a "specified criminal activity" as defined in this chapter;
         (f)   The sexually oriented business employee license is to be used
for employment in a business prohibited by local or state law, statute, rule or
regulation, or prohibited by a particular provision of this chapter, or
         (g)   The applicant has had a sexually oriented business employee
license revoked within two years of the date of the current application.
Denial, suspension, or revocation of a license issued pursuant to this
subsection shall be subject to appeal as set forth in §
118.16.
   (C)   Within 30 days after the official receipt by the Clerk of an
application for an Taylor Mill Sexually Oriented Business License the City
Clerk shall cause to be mailed to the applicant, by certified mail, return
receipt requested, either:
      (1)   A Kenton County Sexually Oriented Business License for the sexually
oriented business described in the application; or
      (2)   A denial of the application with:
         (a)   A copy of the written report from the City Administrative
Officer in regard thereto; and
         (b)   A refund of one-half of all fees and taxes paid with the
application.
   (D)   In the event of a denial of an application see §
118.17 hereof.
   (E)   A license granted pursuant to this section shall be subject to annual
renewal upon the written application. The City Administrative Officer shall
determine whether the applicant has been convicted of any specified criminal
activity as defined in this chapter or committed any act during the existence
of the previous license, which would be grounds to deny the initial license
application. The renew renewal of the license shall be subject to the payment
of the fee as set forth in §
118.04.
   (F)   The license, if granted shall state on its face the name of the person
or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, the address of the
sexually oriented business and the classification for which the license is
issued pursuant to §
118.03. All licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the sexually oriented business so that they may be easily read at
any time.
(Ord. 175 (6-27-01), passed 6-27-01)
§ 118.09 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his/her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Ord. 175 (6-27-01), passed 6-27-01)
§ 118.10 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Nobody shall knowingly cause, permit, allow, aid, assist, encourage or
engage in any of the following acts or omissions in regard to an application
for an Taylor Mill Sexually Oriented Business License, licensee or licensed
premises; all of which are hereby declared to be unlawful:
      (1)   The refusal or obstruction of any inspection of any portion of the
licensed premises, when anybody is present thereon, by any officer, agent or
employee of the city, for the purpose of determining the compliance of the
licensed sexually oriented business, and the owners, employees, patrons and
premises thereof, with all applicable laws;
      (2)   The presence of anybody who is less than 21 years of age on any
portion of the licensed premises, at any time: when any live nude entertainment
is being conducted thereon;
      (3)   The conduct of any sexually oriented business in any manner in
which it is open to the public for business, or any customer patron or member
thereof is on the licensed premises, at any tine after 12:00 a.m. and before 8:
00 a.m. on any day;
      (4)   The presence of anybody in a peep booth in violation of the
provisions set forth in §
118.14 below;
      (5)   The presence of any patrons on any portion of the licensed
premises, other than a private room of any adult motel, every part of which
isn't illuminated from overhead lighting fixtures, to an intensity of two foot
candles, measured at the floor level;
      (6)   The performance of any entertainment by an employee of an adult
cabaret, anywhere other than on a fixed and immovable stage, the location of
which is designated in the application of the adult cabaret for the Taylor Mill
Sexually Oriented Business License;
      (7)   The location of the stage in an adult cabaret, other than a fixed
.and immovable stage in the location designated therefore in the application of
the adult cabaret for an Taylor Mill Sexually Oriented Business License; and
      (8)   The presence of any patron, customer, or member of an adult
cabaret, or any audience therein, upon or within six feet of any stage therein;
      (9)   The presence of any employee of any licensee with any specified
anatomical area exposed to view in any area of the licensed premises, other
than the fixed immovable stage required by this chapter, with patrons of the
licensee;
      (10)   The touching, caressing, or fondling of the breasts, anus, or any
specified anatomical area of any other person on the licensed premises;
      (11)   All payment, delivery or receipt by anybody of any tip, for any
employee of the licensee, shall be by placement of said tips into a tip
container provided by the licensee with one or more signs conspicuously visible
to all patrons on the premises of the licensee, with the following message in
letters no less than one inch in height:
         "All tips are to be placed in the tip box, and not handed directly to
the entertainer. Any physical contact between the patron arid the entertainer
is unlawful and strictly prohibited."
      (12)   The possession or location on the licensed premises of any
controlled substances, within the meaning of KRS Chapter 218P;
      (13)   Any act of prostitution on the licensed premises;
      (14)   Any act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation
masturbation, or any other sexual conduct on any portion of the licensed
premises, other than a private room in an adult motel;
      (15)   Any of the following activities, without there first being
registered with the city, the names addresses dates of birth and social
security numbers of everybody engaged therein, with an identification of all of
the following activities in which they are involved, and all prior convictions
thereof in a court of competent jurisdiction for any offense involving the
specified criminal activities listed under §
118.02, division (EE), including the name, location and file number of the
court involved:
         (a)   Being an owner of or having any interest in any sexually
oriented business, for which a Sexually Oriented Business License has been
issued by the city;
         (b)   Being an officer, director, partner or other policy maker of any
corporation, partnership, joint venture, or unincorporated association which is
the owner of any interest in any sexually oriented business for which a
sexually oriented business license has been issued by the city; and
         (c)   Being an employee, aid, volunteer, or consultant of a sexually
oriented business for which a Sexually Oriented Business License has been
issued by the city. Failure to disclose convictions of those hired, working, or
volunteering shall result in denial or revocation of a license.
      (16)   To permit or suffer anybody to appear in a state of nudity or
depict specified sexual activities in a sexually oriented business.
(Ord. 175 (6-27-01), passed 6-27-01)
§ 118.11 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT MOTELS.
   (A)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or a similar
commercial establishments has been rented and vacated two or more times in a
period of time that is less than ten hours creates a rebuttable presumption
that the establishment is an adult motel as that term is defined in this
chapter.
   (B)   A person commits a misdemeanor if, as the person in control of a
sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment that does
not have a sexually oriented license, he rents or sub-rents a sleeping room to
a person and, within ten hours from the time the room is rented, he rents or
sub-rents the same sleeping room again.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) of this section, the terms "rent" or
"sub-rent," mean the act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of
consideration.
(Ord. 175 (6-27-01), passed 6-27-01)
§ 118.12 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS,
VIDEOS OR LIVE ENTERTAINMENT IN PEEP BOOTHS.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video
cassette, live entertainment, or other video reproduction which depicts
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with
the following requirements:
      (1)   Upon application for a sexually oriented license, the application
shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan thereof
specifying the location of one or more manager's stations and the location of
all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the premises in
which patrons will not be permitted. A manager's station may not exceed 32
square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place at which
the permit will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally prepared
diagram in the nature of an engineer's or architect's blueprint shall not be
required; however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to some
designated street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale or with
marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of all
areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches. The city may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal applications if
the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that
the configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's
station may be made without the prior approval of the city.
      (4)   It is the duty of the licensee of the premises to ensure that at
least one licensed employee is on duty and situated in each manager's station
at all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (5)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two or more manager's stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose from at least one of the manager's stations. The view required in
this section must be by direct line of sight from the manager's station.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the view area
specified in this section remains unobstructed by any doors, curtains,
partitions, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials and, at all
times, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises
which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in
the application filed pursuant to this section.
      (7)   No peep booth may be occupied by more than one person at any time.
      (8)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than five foot candles as measured at the
floor level.
      (9)   It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
      (10)   No licensee shall allow openings of any kind to exist between peep
booths.
      (11)   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind
between peep booths or rooms.
      (12)   The licensee shall, during each business day, regularly inspect
the walls between the peep booths to determine if any openings or holes exist.
      (13)   The licensee shall cause all floor coverings in peep booths to be
non-porous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no rugs or carpeting.
      (14)   The licensee shall cause all wall surfaces and ceiling surfaces in
peep booths to be constructed of, or permanently covered by, non-porous, easily
cleanable material. No wood, plywood, composition board or other porous
material shall be exposed within 48" of the floor.
   (B)   A person having a duty under this section shall be deemed to have
committed a Class A misdemeanor if he knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 175 (6-27-01), passed 6-27-01)
§ 118.13 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ESCORT AGENCIES.
   (A)   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person shall be deemed to have committed a Class A misdemeanor if
he/she knowingly acts as an escort or agrees to act as an escort for any person
under the age of 18 years.
(Ord. 175 (6-27-01), passed 6-27-01)
§ 118.14 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR NUDE MODEL STUDIOS.
   (A)   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person under the age of 18 years shall be deemed to have committed a
Class A misdemeanor if he/she appears semi-nude or in a state of nudity in or
on the premises of a nude model studio. It is a defense to prosecution under
this subsection if the person under 18 years was in a restroom not open to
public view or visible to any other person.
   (C)   A person shall be deemed to have committed a Class A misdemeanor if
he/she appears in a state of nudity, or knowingly allows another to appear in a
state of nudity in an area of a nude model studio premises, which can be
viewed, from the public right of way.
   (D)   A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa, or mattress
in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception
room open to the public.
(Ord. 175 (6-27-01), passed 6-27-01)
§ 118.15 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS LICENSE EXPIRATIONS, SUSPENSIONS AND
REVOCATIONS.
   (A)   Each Taylor Mill sexually oriented business license shall expire at
midnight on the evening of the date of the first annual anniversary of the
issuance thereof.
   (B)   In the event that the City Administrative Officer has any reason to
believe that any violations of §
118.10 have occurred, the City Administrative Officer shall conduct a
proceeding for the review thereof, which shall conform to all of the
requirements of the due process provisions of the Federal and State
Constitutions, including, without limitation, an evidentiary hearing with
factual determinations and conclusions therefrom, and a record of the
proceedings for appellate and judicial review. In the event that the City
Administrative Officer concludes from the aforedescribed due process
proceedings that any violation of this chapter has occurred, the City
Administrative Officer shall either permanently revoke or temporarily suspend
each, every, any and all Taylor Mill Sexually Oriented Business Licenses of
everybody involved in any of such violations; whichever the City Administrative
Officer determines to be appropriate in the circumstances, after the
consideration of the following aggravating and mitigating circumstances:
      (1)   Any previous suspensions or revocations;
      (2)   Any previous warnings that the conduct involved could result in a
license suspension;
      (3)   The involvement of one or several violations;
      (4)   The technical or substantive nature of the violation;
      (5)   The involvement of the licensee and employees thereof in the
violation, as distinguished from the involvement of customers, patrons and
members of the licensee;
      (6)   The extent to which the licensee or the employees thereof had
knowledge of the violation;
      (7)   Any corrective or remedial action by the licensee to prevent
similar violations in the fixture;
      (8)   The criminal nature of the violation, according to the Statutes of
Kentucky, and the degree of felony or misdemeanor;
      (9)   Any personal injuries or property damage involved in the violation;
and any restitution therefore by the licensee;
      (10)   The extent to which any of the violations posed a significant risk
to the health, safety and welfare of persons on or off the licensed premises;
      (11)   The length of time over which the violations extended;
      (12)   The extent to which the licensee or the employees thereof realized
a financial gain from the violation;
      (13)   The number of employees, patrons, customers or members of the
licensee involved in the violations;
      (14)   The nature, extent and cost of the city, or any other governmental
agency to detect the violation;
      (15)   The involvement of any persons under 21 years of age in the
violation;
      (16)   The extent to which the licensee or any employee thereof has
attempted to cover-up the violations, destroy evidence or otherwise hinder the
investigation and detection of the violations;
      (17)   The extent to which the licensee and any employee thereof have
acted in good faith.
   (C)   The revocation or suspension of any Taylor Mill sexually oriented
business license pursuant to the provisions hereof, shall be in addition to any
other civil or criminal penalty prescribed by any other Taylor Mill ordinance
or any other applicable law.
(Ord. 175 (6-27-01), passed 6-27-01)
§ 118.16 APPEAL AND JUDICIAL REVIEW OF THE TAYLOR MILL SEXUALLY ORIENTED
BUSINESS LICENSE DENIALS, SUSPENSION AND REVOCATIONS.
   (A)   A written notice of any Taylor Mill Sexually Oriented Business License
denial, suspension or revocation by the City Administrative Officer shall be
mailed to the applicant (whether owner, operator or employee) at the address
indicated in the application, by certified mail, return receipt requested; and,
within thirty (30) calendar days thereafter the applicant may appeal the
denial, revocation or suspension to the Mayor of the City of Taylor Mill by
filing with the City Clerk a written notice of appeal, with a statement of the
reasons why the denial, suspension or revocation isn't appropriate in the
circumstances thereof.
   (B)   All appeals to the Mayor from any Taylor Mill Sexually Oriented
Business License denial revocation or suspension shall be de novo; and, all
proceedings in regard thereto shall conform to all of the due process
requirements of the federal and state constitutions, provided however:
      (1)   All hearings in regard thereto may be conducted by either the
Mayor, or by a hearing officer appointed by the Mayor, who shall file a record
thereof with the Mayor with a written recommendation regarding findings of fact
and conclusions therefrom, and a decision based thereon, within 30 days after
the date the notice of appeal was filed;
      (2)   Within 45 days after the date of the notice of appeal was filed,
the Mayor shall issue a written decision in regard to the appeal, including,
without limitation, factual determinations with conclusions therefrom and a
decision in regard to the denial, revocation or suspension of the Taylor Mill
Sexually Oriented Business License;
      (3)   Promptly after the written decision of the Mayor, a copy thereof
shall be mailed to the applicant or licensee at the address thereof in the
application, by certified mail, return receipt requested.
   (C)   All decisions of the Mayor in regard to the Taylor Mill Sexually
Oriented Business License denials, revocations and suspensions shall be subject
to judicial review, according to the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky which
shall be expedited by the city.
(Ord. 175 (6-27-01), passed 6-27-01)
§ 118.17 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   It is a defense to prosecution under §
118.16 that a person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class
operated:
      (1)   By a proprietary school, licensed by the State of; a college,
junior college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
      (2)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      (3)   In a structure:
         (a)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
         (b)   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
at least three days in advance of the class; and
         (c)   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time.
(Ord. 175 (6-27-02), passed 6-27-01)
§ 118.18 OTHER FEES AND TAXES.
   The annual Taylor Mill Sexually Oriented Business License Fee established
and required by this chapter shall be in addition to all other fees and taxes
established by ordinances of the City of Taylor Mill or any other applicable
law.
(Ord. 175 (6-27-01), passed 6-27-01)
§ 118.99 PENALTIES.
   Each violation and every other failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter shall be a Class A misdemeanor, and each day of the continuation
thereof shall be a separate and distinct offense for which:
   (A)   Everybody convicted thereof in a court of competent jurisdiction shall
be sentenced to pay a criminal fine not to exceed the maximum amount of $500 as
set forth in KRS 534.040 (2)(a) or a term of imprisonment not to exceed the
maximum period of 12 months as set forth in KRS 532.090 (1), or both: and
   (B)   The offender shall be subject to a civil penalty of $100 for each
offense, which shall be recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature
of debt if not paid by the offender within 30 days after citation for the
violation or other failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 175 (6-27-01), passed 6-27-01)
CHAPTER 119: COMMUNICATION SERVICES
Section
   
119.01   Definitions
   
119.02   Prohibitions
   
119.03   License or franchise fee
   
119.04   Rate of license or franchise fee
   
119.05   Interest
   
119.06   Provisions included in all licenses and franchises
   
119.07   Purpose of license or franchise fee
§ 119.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   As used in this chapter, words and phrases that have meanings provided
therefore in Sections 88 through 118 of House Bill 272 of the 2005 General
Assembly of Kentucky have the same meanings herein.
   (B)   As used in this chapter, the words "PUBLIC WAY" mean the streets,
alleys and other ways and grounds within the city that are open to public use
by dedication, grant, prescription or otherwise.
(Ord. 224 (6-14-05), passed 6-14-05)
§ 119.02 PROHIBITIONS.
   No provider of communication services shall cause, permit, promote, suffer,
allow, aid, assist, encourage or engage in the use of any public way in the
city for the provision of communication services without a license or franchise
from the city therefor.
(Ord. 224 (6-14-05), passed 6-14-05)
§ 119.03 LICENSE OR FRANCHISE FEE.
   A license or franchise fee, at the rate and in the amount hereinafter
provided, is hereby imposed upon every provider of communication services that
causes, permits, promotes, suffers, allows, aids, assists, encourages or
engages in the use of the public ways of the city for the provision of
communication services thereby.
(Ord. 224 (6-14-05), passed 6-14-05)
§ 119.04 RATE OF LICENSE OR FRANCHISE FEE.
   The rate of the license or franchise fee imposed is established at $30,000
in advance for each year of the franchise, with the initial payment of the
first year due and payable in advance with the bid or other application for the
franchise or license, and all subsequent annual payments for future years due
and payable in advance on or before each annual anniversary of the initial
payment.
(Ord. 224 (6-14-05), passed 6-14-05)
§ 119.05 INTEREST.
   Each, every, any and all fees imposed in this chapter that are not paid on
or before the due date shall bear interest at the interest rate defined in KRS
131.010 (6) from the date due until paid.
(Ord. 224 (6-14-05), passed 6-14-05)
§ 119.06 PROVISIONS INCLUDED IN ALL LICENSES AND FRANCHISES.
   The provisions of §§
119.01 through
119.05 shall be included in each and every license or franchise of the city for
the use of the public ways of the city for the provision of communication
services, along with such other conditions and provisions authorized by KRS
96.010, 96.070 and Section 163 of the Kentucky Constitution.
(Ord. 224 (6-14-05), passed 6-14-05)
§ 119.07 PURPOSE OF LICENSE OF FRANCHISE FEE.
   The purpose of the license or franchise fee hereby imposed is to provide
revenue for the general operating expenses of the city, including, without
limitation, the expense of acquiring and maintaining public ways within the
city.
(Ord. 224 (6-14-05), passed 6-14-05)
CHAPTER 120: USED PROPERTY BUSINESSES
Section
   
120.01   Definitions
   
120.02   Prohibitions
   
120.03   Requirements
   
120.04   License revocation
 
   
120.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Pawnbrokers, see
Ch. 112
§ 120.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "USED PROPERTY BUSINESS." An occupation, business or profession that
normally includes in it the usual and customary acquisition of the actual
physical possession of or a possessory, security or ownership interest in used
tangible personal property by barter, pawn, purchase, exchange or otherwise,
except for used motor vehicles and consignments of used tangible personal
property for sale, which are specifically excluded from this meaning.
(Ord. 273 (9-7-10), passed 9-7-10)
§ 120.02 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Nobody shall conspire, cause, permit, promote, allow, aid, assist,
encourage or engage in any ownership or operation of any used property business
in the city for which there is no valid business regulatory license that has
been issued by or on behalf of the city pursuant to Ordinance 250, as amended
from time to time, which is codified in
Chapter 110.
   (B)   Nobody who is engaged in any ownership or operation of any used
property business in the city, including, without limitation, employees
thereof, shall receive the actual physical possession of or any possessory,
security or ownership interest in any used tangible personal property from a
minor at any time, or from an adult during the period of time after 8:00 p.m.
on any day and before 7:00 a.m. the following day.
(Ord. 273 (9-7-10), passed 9-7-10)
§ 120.03 REQUIREMENTS.
   Everybody who is engaged in any ownership or operation of any used property
business in the city, including, without limitation, employees thereof, shall,
with each acquisition by the used property business of the actual physical
possession of or any used tangible personal property from others shall:
   (A)   Assign a unique and separate identifying number to each separate item
of such used tangible personal property, which shall include the time and date
of the acquisition, such as 6-1-2010 @ 2:35 p.m.
   (B)   Obtain from everyone from whom the actual physical possession of any
used tangible personal property is acquired by the used property business the
following information and documentation:
      (1)   That person's name, address, telephone number, date of birth, sex,
and race, along with a color full face photograph and another photo
identification card for that person.
      (2)   That person's signature to a written or printed list with a
detailed description of each item of used tangible personal property the actual
physical possession of which has been received by the used property business
from that person, including, without limitation, any manufacturer's name,
identification numbers and any identifying marks and disfigurements, along with
a photograph of each item in which those identifications and the identifying
number assigned pursuant to division (A) of this section is visible.
   (C)   Before 11:00 a.m., prevailing time, on the next calendar day after the
receipt by the used property business of the actual physical possession of any
used tangible personal property, cause to be provided to the Taylor Mill Police
Department all of the information and documentation required by division (A),
by telecommunication methods approved by the Taylor Mill Police Department.
   (D)   Maintain all of the information and documentation required by
divisions (A) and (B) for a period of at least one year after the acquisition
thereof; and permit the inspection thereof by members of the Taylor Mill Police
Department and any other state law enforcement officer at any reasonable time,
without a search warrant.
   (E)   Attach to each item of used tangible personal property received by the
used property business an identification tag or label that includes the unique
and separate identifying number assigned to it pursuant to division (A) of this
section; and then hold and maintain each such item in the same condition in
which it was received, and separated from all other used tangible personal
property according to both the person from whom it was received and the day it
was received, for a period of no less than ten calendar days after the date on
which it was received, except for tangible personal property like precious
metals the value of which fluctuates daily according to activities and reports
of markets that are regulated by the federal government, for which the holding
period required hereby shall be only 72 hours after receipt by the used
property business.
   (F)   Allow each, every, any and all items of used tangible personal
property in the possession of the used property business to be examined by any
Kentucky law enforcement officer at any reasonable time, without a search
warrant.
   (G)   Comply with all of the provisions of KRS 226.010 to 226.990 and
Chapter 112 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Taylor Mill, in regard to
tangible personal property received in pawn by the used property business,
which shall prevail over any provisions in this chapter conflicting with them.
(Ord. 273 (9-7-10), passed 9-7-10)
§ 120.04 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   For each, every, and any separate violation of this chapter, the city may
suspend or revoke the business regulatory license issued by or on behalf
thereof for the used property business pursuant to the procedures established
in Ordinance 250, as amended from time to time, which is codified in
Chapter 110 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Taylor Mill.
(Ord. 273 (9-7-10), passed 9-7-10)
§ 120.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalties. Each separate violation of this chapter is hereby
classified as a civil offense, for which:
      (1)   The maximum civil fine required by KRS 65.8808(2)(b)1. that may be
imposed for each separate violation of this chapter, is hereby established as
$500; and
      (2)   The specific civil fine required by KRS 65.8808(2)(b)2. that will
be imposed for each separate offense and violation of this chapter if the
person who has committed the violation and offense does not contest a citation
for it, is hereby established as $100;
      (3)   An enforcement officer may, in lieu of immediately issuing a civil
citation, give notice that the violation of this chapter shall be remedied
within a specific period of time.
   (B)   Criminal penalties. Each violation of this chapter shall be a
misdemeanor for which everybody convicted thereof in a court of competent
jurisdiction shall be sentenced to pay a criminal fine not to exceed the
maximum amount of $500 as set forth in KRS 534.050(2)(a) or a term of
imprisonment not to exceed the maximum period of 12 months as set forth in KRS
532.090(1), or both.
(Ord. 273(9-7-10), passed 9-7-10)
CHAPTER 121: RENTAL REGISTRY
Section
   
121.01   Purpose
   
121.02   Definitions
   
121.03   Creation of rental registry
   
121.04   Property exempt
   
121.05   Administrative provisions
 
   
121.99   Penalty
§ 121.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the residential rental business
in the city for the promotion of the health, safety and welfare of the tenants
and neighborhoods of residential units for rent and also the general public.
(Ord. 393(11-28-2023), passed 11-28-23)
§ 121.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “APPLICABLE PROPERTY MAINTENANCE LAWS.” The Kentucky Building Code and the
Kentucky Standards of Safety and
Chapter 93  (Nuisances) of the Taylor Mill Code of Ordinances and the following
codes that the city has adopted by reference:
      (1)   The International Property Maintenance Code;
      (2)   The National Fire Protection Association 1: Fire Code (NFP A 1:
Fire Code);
      (3)   The Kentucky Residential Code, all as amended from time to time;
      (4)   The Kentucky Standards of Safety;
      (5)   The Kentucky Building Code;
      (6)   The Taylor Mill Nuisance Code (
Chapter 93 of the Taylor Mill Code of Ordinances); and
      (7)   Any subsequent amendments thereto to divisions (1) through (6)
above.
   “CITY.” The City of Taylor Mill, in Kenton County, Kentucky.
   “CODES ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.” Have the same meaning as that provided in KRS
65.8805.
   “EVERYBODY.” Every human being, or any combination thereof in the form of a
partnership, corporation, joint venture, unincorporated association or
otherwise.
   “LANDLORD.” The owner of a residential rental unit who offers to or actually
lets, leases, or rents it to others for use as a separate residence.
   “TENANT.” A person who uses a residential rental unit owned by others as a
residence.
(Ord. 393(11-28-2023), passed 11-28-23)
§ 121.03 CREATION OF RENTAL REGISTRY.
   Requirements: Everybody who is engaged in the residential rental business in
the city shall always:
   (A)   Obtain and maintain both:
      (1)   A Taylor Mill business regulatory license pursuant to the
provisions of
Chapter 110 of the Taylor Mill Code of Ordinances, as previously enacted and
amended from time to time; and
      (2)   Register each of their residential buildings in the city with the
office of the City Clerk. The registry shall include:
         (a)   The mailing address of each building owned by the landlord
(property owner);
         (b)   The landlord (property owner's) names and their business name;
         (c)   The landlord (property owner's) residential and business
address;
         (d)   The landlord (property owner's) business email address; and
         (e)   The landlord (property owner's) telephone number both mobile and
landline if applicable, and provide a local emergency contact person's name,
address, email address, 24/7 telephone number.
      (3)   All information shall be updated once every 12 months or whenever a
change occurs.
   (B)   Comply with the applicable property maintenance laws as set forth in §
121.02, in addition to maintaining a clean, safe, and sanitary condition, free
of all obvious defects and dangerous conditions.
(Ord. 393(11/28/2023), passed 11-28-23) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.04 PROPERTY EXEMPT.
   Exempt from the provisions of this chapter are nonresidential units in
hotels and motels and a separate residential rental unit in an owner-occupied
residence that is the principal and primary residence of that owner and
includes no other residential rental unit.
(Ord. 393(11-28-2023), passed 11-28-23)
§ 121.05 ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered and enforced by the
City Administrative Officer, who is hereby authorized to promulgate any
additional administrative regulations in regard thereto which are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or any state statute, or any
other chapter of the city.
(Ord. 393(11-28-2023), passed 11-28-23) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.99 PENALTY.
   Each separate violation of any provision of this chapter is hereby
classified as a civil offense, for which the maximum civil fine that may be
imposed for each separate violation of this chapter, in a 12-month period, is
hereby established at $100 for a first violation, $250 for a second occurrence
of the same violation and $500 for the third and each subsequent occurrence of
the same violation plus the costs of collection, including, without limitation,
court costs and attorney fees.
(Ord. 393(11/28/2023), passed 11-28-23)
CHAPTER 122: CANNABIS BUSINESS
Section
   
122.01   Cannabis business prohibited
§ 122.01 CANNABIS BUSINESS PROHIBITED.
   Pursuant to KRS 218B.130, all cannabis business operations as defined in KRS
218B.010 shall be prohibited within the City of Taylor Mill.
(Ord. 398(07-10-2024), passed 7-10-24)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
131.   FAMILY OFFENSES
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
134.   GAMBLING OFFENSES
      
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND JUSTICE
      
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
137.   SEXUAL OFFENSES
      
138.   INCHOATE OFFENSES
      
139.   GENERAL PENALTY FOR TITLE XIII
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
   EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against persons. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                        KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
ASSAULT                                    
   First degree             508.010     B felony
   Second degree            508.020     C felony
   Third degree             508.025     D felony*
*Unless the offense occurs during a declared emergency as defined by KRS
39A.020 arising from a natural or man-made disaster, within the area covered
by the emergency declaration, and within the area impacted by the disaster,
in which case it is a Class C felony.
   Fourth degree            508.030     A misdemeanor
   Under emotional disturban508.040     B misdemeanor or D felony
CRIMINAL ABUSE                             
   First degree             508.100     C felony*
*Unless the victim is under twelve (12) years old, in which case it is a
Class B felony.
   Second degree            508.110     D felony
   Third degree             508.120     A misdemeanor
CRIMINAL COERCION              509.080     A misdemeanor
CUSTODIAL INTERFERENCE         509.070     D felony
KIDNAPING                      509.040     A or B felony; capital offense
MANSLAUGHTER                               
   First degree             507.030     B felony
   Second degree            507.040     C felony
MENACING                       508.050     B misdemeanor
MURDER                         507.020     Capital offense
RECKLESS HOMICIDE              507.050     D felony
TERRORISTIC THREATENING        508.080     A misdemeanor
UNLAWFUL IMPRISONMENT                      
   First degree             509.020     D felony
   Second degree            509.030     A misdemeanor
WANTON ENDANGERMENT                        
   First degree             508.060     D felony
   Second degree            508.070     A misdemeanor
 
Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 131: FAMILY OFFENSES
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common family offenses. These citations are
intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers in citing
offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the municipality to
incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of ordinances, and such
provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                                    KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
BIGAMY                                     530.010     D felony
CONCEALING BIRTH OF INFANT                 530.030     A misdemeanor
INCEST                                     530.020     A, B or C felony
INCOMPETENT PERSON, ENDANGERING WELFARE OF 530.080     A misdemeanor
MINORS
   Abandonment of                       530.040     D felony
   Endangering welfare of               530.060     A misdemeanor
   Unlawful transaction with
      First degree                   530.064     A, B, or C felony
      Second degree                  530.065     D felony
      Third degree                   530.070     A misdemeanor
NONSUPPORT                                 530.050     A misdemeanor
NONSUPPORT, FLAGRANT                       530.050     D felony
 
Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
132.01   Damaging city property
   
132.02   References to statutory offenses
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 DAMAGING CITY PROPERTY.
   No person in the city shall wantonly, or intentionally injure, deface,
destroy, or remove either real or personal property or improvements thereto.
('78 Code, 1010.1, § IV (a)) (W.P. Ord. 17-1934, passed 7-2-34)
Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 REFERENCES TO STATUTORY OFFENSES.
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This section contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against property. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                           KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
ARSON                                         
   Defrauding insurer          513.060     D felony
   First degree                513.020     A felony
   Second degree               513.030     B felony
   Third degree                513.040     D felony
BURGLARY                                      
   First degree                511.020     B felony*
   *Unless the offense occurs during a declared emergency as defined by KRS
39A.020 arising from a natural or man-made disaster, within the area covered
by the emergency declaration, and within the area impacted by the disaster, in
which case it is a Class A felony.
   Second degree               511.030     C felony*
   *Unless the offense occurs during a declared emergency as defined by KRS
39A.020 arising from a natural or man-made disaster, within the area covered
by the emergency declaration, and within the area impacted by the disaster, in
which case it is a Class B felony.
   Third degree                511.040     D felony*
   *Unless the offense occurs during a declared emergency as defined by KRS
39A.020 arising from a natural or man-made disaster, within the area covered
by the emergency declaration, and within the area impacted by the disaster, in
which case it is a Class C felony.
   Possession of burglar's tool511.050     A misdemeanor
CRIMINAL MISCHIEF                             
   First degree                512.020     D felony*
   *Unless the offense occurs during a declared emergency as defined by KRS
39A.020 arising from a natural or man-made disaster, within the area covered
by the emergency declaration, and within the area impacted by the disaster, in
which case it is a Class C felony.
   Second degree               512.030     A misdemeanor*
*Unless the offense occurs during a declared emergency as defined by KRS
39A.020 arising from a natural or man-made disaster, within the area covered
by the emergency declaration, and within the area impacted by the disaster, in
which case it is a Class D felony.
CRIMINAL TRESPASS                             
   First degree                511.060     A misdemeanor*
   *Unless the offense occurs during a declared emergency as defined by KRS
39A.020 arising from a natural or man-made disaster, within the area covered
by the emergency declaration, and within the area impacted by the disaster, in
which case it is a Class C felony.
   Second degree               511.070     B misdemeanor*
   *Unless the offense occurs during a declared emergency as defined by KRS
39A.020 arising from a natural or man-made disaster, within the area covered
by the emergency declaration, and within the area impacted by the disaster, in
which case it is a Class A misdemeanor.
   Third degree                511.080     Violation*
   *Unless the offense occurs during a declared emergency as defined by KRS
39A.020 arising from a natural or man-made disaster, within the area covered
by the emergency declaration, and within the area impacted by the disaster, in
which case it is a Class B misdemeanor.
FORGERY AND RELATED OFFENSES                  
   Criminal simulation         516.110     A misdemeanor
   Forgery                                 
      First degree          516.020     C felony
      Second degree         516.030     D felony
      Third degree          516.040     A misdemeanor
   Possession of forged                    
instrument
      First degree          516.050     C felony
      Second degree         516.060     D felony
      Third degree          516.070     A misdemeanor
   Possession of forgery device516.090     D felony
   Using slugs                             
      First degree          516.120     D felony
      Second degree         516.130     B misdemeanor
LITTERING, CRIMINAL               512.070     A misdemeanor
NOXIOUS SUBSTANCES                            
   Criminal possession of      512.060     B misdemeanor
   Criminal use of             512.050     B misdemeanor
POSTING ADVERTISEMENTS UNLAWFULLY 512.080     Violation
ROBBERY                                       
   First degree                515.020     B felony*
   *Unless the offense occurs during a declared emergency as defined by KRS
39A.020 arising from a natural or man-made disaster, within the area covered
by the emergency declaration, and within the area impacted by the disaster, in
which case it is a Class A felony.
   Second degree               515.030     C felony*
   *Unless the offense occurs during a declared emergency as defined by KRS
39A.020 arising from a natural or man-made disaster, within the area covered
by the emergency declaration, and within the area impacted by the disaster, in
which case it is a Class B felony.
THEFT AND RELATED OFFENSES                    
Device for theft of telephone     514.065     A misdemeanor or D felony
services
Obscuring identity of machine     514.120     A misdemeanor or C or D felony
Possession of stolen mail         514.150     D felony
Receiving stolen property         514.110     A or B misdemeanor or A, B, C or
                                              D felony*
   *If the offense occurs during a declared emergency as defined by KRS
39A.020 arising from a natural or man-made disaster, within the area covered
by the emergency declaration, and within the area impacted by the disaster, in
which case the person shall be charged one (1) level higher than the level
otherwise specified herein.
Theft by deception                514.040     A or B misdemeanor or C or D
                                              felony*
   *If the offense occurs during a declared emergency as defined by KRS
39A.020 arising from a natural or man-made disaster, within the area covered
by the emergency declaration, and within the area impacted by the disaster, in
which case the person shall be charged one (1) level higher than the level
otherwise specified herein.
Theft by extortion                514.080     A or B misdemeanor or C or D
                                              felony
Theft by failure to make          514.070     A or B misdemeanor or C or D
disposition                                   felony
Theft by unlawful taking          514.030     A or B misdemeanor or A, B, C or
                                              D felony*
   *If the offense occurs during a declared emergency as defined by KRS
39A.020 arising from a natural or man-made disaster, within the area covered
by the emergency declaration, and within the area impacted by the disaster, in
which case the person shall be charged one (1) level higher than the level
otherwise specified herein.
Theft of labor                    514.090     A or B misdemeanor or C or D
                                              felony
Theft of mail matter              514.140     D felony
Theft of property                 514.050     A or B misdemeanor or C or D
                                              felony
Theft of services                 514.060     A or B misdemeanor or C or D
                                              felony
Unauthorized use of vehicle       514.100     A misdemeanor or D felony
 
Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates §
132.01 shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $500 for each offense.
   (B)   See Chapter 139 for descriptions of statutory penalties for those
statutory offenses listed in §
132.02 above.
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
133.01   Indecent exposure, language
   
133.02   Drug paraphernalia
   
133.03   Sale of toxic glue; glue sniffing
   
133.04   References to statutory offenses
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 INDECENT EXPOSURE, LANGUAGE.
   No person shall conduct himself in an improper manner by indecently exposing
his person as prohibited by KRS 510.150, or by using threatening or abusive
language.
('78 Code, 1010.1, § I (g)) (Ord. 13-1934, passed 3-5-34)
Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.02 DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   No person shall use or possess with intent to use, any drug paraphernalia as
defined by KRS 218A.500 for any of the purposes described in KRS 218.500 (2),
unless he is a manufacturer, wholesaler, or retailer of surgical or medical
instruments; the owner of a pharmacy or a pharmacist; a doctor, nurse, or other
person authorized to administer or possess dangerous drugs as defined in KRS
Chapter 218A; or is a person for which the use of dangerous drugs has been
prescribed by a doctor.
(Ord. 2-10-79, passed 10-11-79) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.03 SALE OF TOXIC GLUE; GLUE SNIFFING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   "MINOR." Anyone under 18 years of age. ('78 Code 1010.3, § III (c))
      (2)   "TOXIC GLUE." Any glue, adhesive cement, muscilage, plastic
solvent, or other material containing toluene, acetone, xylene, butyl, hexane,
tricresyl phosphate, or other toxic ingredients, including but not limited to
those having the property of releasing toxic vapors. ('78 Code, 1010.3, § I
(a))
   (B)   No person shall, for the purpose of violating or aiding another to
violate any provision of this section, intentionally possess, buy, sell,
transfer possession, or receive possession of toxic glue. ('78 Code, 1010.3, §
I (b))
   (C)   No person shall, for the purpose of causing a condition of
intoxication, euphoria, exhilaration, elation, stupefication, or in any other
manner changing, distorting, or disturbing the eyesight, thinking process,
judgment, balance, or coordination of such person, intentionally smell, inhale,
or otherwise induce into his respiratory system or circulatory system the
vapors from any toxic glue. This section shall not apply to the inhalation of
any anesthesia for medical or dental purposes. ('78 Code, 1010.3, § II)
   (D)   No person under 18 years of age shall possess or buy any toxic glue
except as provided in divisions (D) (3) and (E) below.
      (1)   Consent of the parent or guardian as provided for in division (D)
(3) below must be in writing and signed by the parent or guardian.
      (2)   Consent of the parent or guardian as provided for in division (D)
(3) must state the purpose for which the glue is being purchased.
      (3)   Where a minor has in his possession and exhibits written consent of
a parent or guardian, the minor may purchase or be allowed to possess toxic
glue for the purpose of model building or other lawful use.
('78 Code, 1010.3, § III)
   (E)   Any person, firm, or corporation making a sale or transfer of
possession of toxic glue to a person under 18 years of age, who exhibits the
written consent of his parent or guardian, shall record the name, address, sex,
and age of the minor, and the name and address of the consenting parent or
guardian. All data required by this section shall be kept in a permanent record
available for inspection by the Chief of Police, and other appropriate
officials for a period of at least two years from the date of such sale or
transfer of possession. ('78 Code, 1010.3, § IV)
(Ord. l-5-69, passed 5-8-69) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.04 REFERENCES TO STATUTORY OFFENSES.
   EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This section contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against public morals. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                                     KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
PORNOGRAPHY                                             
   Advertising obscene material          531.050     B misdemeanor
   Distribution                                      
      Distribution of obscene matter  531.020     A or B misdemeanor
      Distribution to minor           531.030     A misdemeanor or D
                                                        felony
      Using minors to distribute      531.040     A misdemeanor or D
                                                        felony
   Portrayal of sexual performance by min            
      Advertising material containing 531.360     A misdemeanor
      Distributing matter containing  531.340     B, C, or D felony
      Promoting sale of matter contain531.350     A misdemeanor; C or D
                                                        felony
      Using minors to distribute such 531.370     C or D felony
matter
   Promoting sale of obscenity           531.060     A or B misdemeanor; D
                                                        felony
   Sexual performance by minor                       
      Promotion of                    531.320     A, B, or C felony
      Use of minor                    531.310     A, B, or C felony
PROSTITUTION OFFENSES                                   
   Loitering for prostitution purposes   529.080     Violation or B
                                                        misdemeanor
   Permitting prostitution               529.070     B misdemeanor
   Promoting prostitution                            
      Second degree                   529.040     D felony
   Prostitution                          529.020     B misdemeanor
 
Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates §
133.01 shall be, upon conviction, guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more
than $500 for each offense.
   (B)   Any person violating any provisions of §
133.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not less than $25 nor more
than $500 or imprisoned for not less than one nor more than 180 days, or both.
(Ord. 2-10-79, passed 10-11-79)
   (C)   Whoever violates the provisions of §
133.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more than $500, or be
imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both, and the costs of prosecution.
Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute
a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder. Any minor
violating any of the provisions of §
133.03 shall be dealt with in accordance with Juvenile Court law and procedure
of the Commonwealth of Kentucky. ('78 Code, 1010.3, § V) (Ord. l-5-69, passed
5-8-69)
   (D)   See Chapter 139 for descriptions of statutory penalties for those
statutory offenses listed in §
133.04 above.
CHAPTER 134: GAMBLING OFFENSES
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common gambling offenses. These citations are
intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers in citing
offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the municipality to
incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of ordinances, and such
provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                                   KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
CONSPIRACY TO PROMOTE GAMBLING            528.040     D felony
HORSE RACES, MESSENGER BETTING PROHIBITED 528.110     A misdemeanor
PARI-MUTUEL WAGERING                      558.120     A misdemeanor
PERMITTING GAMBLING                       528.070     B misdemeanor
POSSESSION OF GAMBLING DEVICE             528.080     A misdemeanor
POSSESSION OF GAMBLING RECORDS
   First degree                        528.050     D felony
   Second degree                       528.060     A misdemeanor
PROMOTING GAMBLING
   First degree                        528.020     D felony
   Second degree                       528.030     A misdemeanor
 
Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND JUSTICE
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against public administration
and justice. These citations are intended only as convenient references for
enforcement officers in citing offenders under state law. It is not the
intention of the municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this
code of ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by
reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                             KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
BRIBERY AND RELATED OFFENSES                    
   Bribery of public servant     521.020     C felony
   Receiving unlawful compensatio521.040     A misdemeanor
   Soliciting unlawful compensati521.030     B misdemeanor
ESCAPE AND RELATED OFFENSES                     
   Bail jumping                              
    First degree                 520.070     D felony
    Second degree                520.080     A misdemeanor
   Escape                                    
    First degree                 520.020     C felony
    Second degree                520.030     D felony
    Third degree                 520.040     B misdemeanor
   Hindering prosecution or                  
apprehension
    First degree                 520.120     D felony
    Second degree                520.130     A misdemeanor
   Promoting contraband                      
    First degree                 520.050     D felony
    Second degree                520.060     A misdemeanor
   Resisting arrest              520.090     A misdemeanor
   Resisting order to stop motor 520.100     A misdemeanor
vehicle
JUDICIAL ADMINISTRATION,                        
INTERFERENCE WITH
   Bribe receiving by juror      524.070     D felony
   Bribe receiving by witness    524.030     D felony
   Bribing a juror               524.060     D felony
   Bribing a witness             524.020     D felony
   Harassing a witness           524.045     A misdemeanor
   Intimidating a judicial office524.120     D felony
   Intimidating a juror          524.080     D felony
   Intimidating a witness        524.040     D felony
   Jury tampering                524.090     A misdemeanor
   Retaliating against a witness 524.055     D felony
   Simulating legal process      524.110     B misdemeanor
   Tampering with physical eviden524.100     D felony
   Tampering with a witness      524.050     A misdemeanor
                                                A misdemeanor for the first
   Unlawful practice of law      524.130     offense; and D felony for a
                                                second or subsequent offense
PERJURY AND RELATED OFFENSES                    
   False swearing                523.040     B misdemeanor
   Perjury                                   
    First degree                 523.020     D felony
    Second degree                523.030     A misdemeanor
   Unsworn falsification to      523.100     B misdemeanor
authorities
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION, OBSTRUCTION              
OF
   Compounding a crime           519.030     A misdemeanor
   Falsely reporting an incident 519.040     A misdemeanor
   Impersonating a public servant519.050     A misdemeanor
   Obstructing governmental      519.020     A misdemeanor
operations
   Tampering with public records 519.060     A misdemeanor
PUBLIC OFFICE, ABUSE OF                         
   Misuse of confidential        522.040     D felony
information
   Official misconduct                       
    First degree                 522.020     A misdemeanor
    Second degree                522.030     B misdemeanor
 
Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
136.01   Discharge of weapons in city
   
136.02   False alarms
   
136.03   References to statutory offenses
 
   
136.99   Penalty
§ 136.01 DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS IN CITY.
   (A)   No person shall cause, encourage, permit, or engage in the activation
or operation in the city of a gun, bow, sling, or other such mechanical device
by which a missile is propelled through the air as a result of the action of
exploding gunpowder, compressed air, springs, taut strings, or any similar
mechanical propelling force; provided, however, that the following persons are
hereby exempt from the provisions of this section:
      (1)   A peace officer acting within the course and scope of his
employment and duties as such;
      (2)   A person acting in defense of person or property from the unlawful
act of another person;
      (3)   A person engaged in activities which are a part of the educational
or athletic program of a school approved and accredited by the Commonwealth of
Kentucky or any department or agency thereof; and
      (4)   A person engaged in an activity for which a "shooting permit" has
been issued by the City Clerk/Tax Collector.
   (B)   The "shooting permit" described herein shall be issued by the City
Clerk/Tax Collector upon receipt of a fee in the amount of $20 and an
application approved by the Chief of Police with the following information,
signed and verified under oath and according to law by the person conducting
the activity described therein or an authorized agent thereof:
         (l)   The name and address of the person signing the application;
      (2)   The name and address of the person conducting the activity
described in the application;
      (3)   A description of the activity for which the permit is requested;
      (4)   A description of the premises upon which the activity is to be
conducted;
      (5)   A description of the manner in which the activity is to be
conducted upon the premises;
      (6)   A description of the times and dates during which the activity is
to be conducted; and
      (7)   The names and addresses of the owners and residents of property
abutting the premises upon which the activity is to be conducted.
   (C)   Upon receipt of an application for a shooting permit, the Chief of
Police shall examine the premises described in the application and shall
approve the application unless the activity described in the application cannot
be conducted upon the premises described therein without any unreasonable risk
of harm to the person or property of other persons who are not engaged in the
activity for which the permit is requested. There shall be no shooting permit
issued where the premises for which the activity is being conducted is less
than 5 acres.
(Ord. 1-10-82, passed - -82; Ord. 399, passed 8-14-24) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.02 FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause the fire siren to be
turned on, except in the case of an actual fire or other emergency for which
the Fire Department is usually used. Any person aiding, abetting, assisting, or
encouraging another in a violation of this section shall be deemed guilty as a
principal.
   (B)   The test of the siren by a member of the Fire Department or the use of
the siren to sound 12:00 noon shall not be considered a violation of this
section.
('78 Code, 1010.1, § I (i)) (W.P. Ord. 50-1952, passed 5-7-52)
Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.03 REFERENCES TO STATUTORY OFFENSES.
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This section contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against public order. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                                  KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
ABUSE OF CORPSE                          525.120     A misdemeanor or D felony
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
   First degree                       525.125     D felony
   Second degree                      525.130     A misdemeanor
DESECRATION OF VENERATED OBJECTS
   First degree                       525.105     D felony
   Second degree                      525.110     A misdemeanor
DISORDERLY CONDUCT                       525.060     B misdemeanor
DISRUPTING MEETINGS OR PROCESSIONS       525.150     B misdemeanor
EAVESDROPPING AND RELATED OFFENSES
   Divulging illegally obtained       526.060     A misdemeanor
information
   Eavesdropping                      526.020     D felony
   Installing eavesdropping device    526.030     D felony
   Possessing eavesdropping device    526.040     A misdemeanor
   Tampering with private communicatio526.050     A misdemeanor
FAILURE TO DISPERSE                      525.160     B misdemeanor
FIREARMS AND WEAPONS
(Editor's note: KRS 65.870 prohibits any city from regulating the transfer,
ownership, possession, carrying, or transportation of firearms, ammunition, or
components of firearms or combinations thereof.)
HARASSING COMMUNICATIONS                 525.080     B misdemeanor
HARASSMENT                               525.070     Violation or B misdemeanor
INCITING TO RIOT                         525.040     A misdemeanor
LOITERING                                525.090     Violation
OBSTRUCTING HIGHWAY OR PUBLIC PASSAGE    525.140     B misdemeanor
PUBLIC INTOXICATION                      525.100     B misdemeanor
RIOT
   First degree                       525.020     D felony
   Second degree                      525.030     A misdemeanor
UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY                        525.050     B misdemeanor
 
Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more than
$500 for each offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the terms or provisions of §
136.02 shall be, upon conviction, guilty of a misdemeanor and fined for each
offense no less than $10 and no more than $500 or sentenced to imprisonment for
no more than 90 days or sentenced to any combination of such fines and
imprisonment. (Ord. 1-10-82, passed - - 82)
   (C)   See
Chapter 139 for descriptions of statutory penalties for those statutory
offenses listed in §
136.03 above.
CHAPTER 137: SEXUAL OFFENSES
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common sexual offenses. These citations are
intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers in citing
offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the municipality to
incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of ordinances, and such
provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE           KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
INDECENT EXPOSURE 510.150     B misdemeanor
RAPE
   First degree510.040     A or B felony
   Second degre510.050     C felony
   Third degree510.060     D felony
SEXUAL ABUSE
   First degree510.110     D felony
   Second degre510.120     A misdemeanor
   Third degree510.130     B misdemeanor
SEXUAL MISCONDUCT 510.140     A misdemeanor
SODOMY
   First degree510.070     A or B felony
   Second degre510.080     C felony
   Third degree510.090     D felony
   Fourth degre510.100     A misdemeanor
 
Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 138: INCHOATE OFFENSES
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common inchoate offenses. These citations are
intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers in citing
offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the municipality to
incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of ordinances, and such
provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
 
OFFENSE               KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
CRIMINAL ATTEMPT      506.010     A or B misdemeanor; B or C felony
CRIMINAL CONSPIRACY   506.040     A or B misdemeanor; B or C felony
CRIMINAL FACILITATION 506.080     A or B misdemeanor; D felony
CRIMINAL SOLICITATION 506.030     A or B misdemeanor; B or C felony
CRIMINAL SYNDICATE    506.120     B or C felony
 
Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 139: GENERAL PENALTY FOR TITLE XIII
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter is included for informational purposes only. The provisions of
this chapter are specifically not incorporated by reference.
Section
   
139.01   Fines for misdemeanors and violations
   
139.02   Sentence of imprisonment for misdemeanor
   
139.03   Fines for felonies
   
139.04   Sentence of imprisonment for felony
§ 139.01 FINES FOR MISDEMEANORS AND VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Fines and imprisonment for misdemeanors shall not be mutually
exclusive. In any case where imprisonment is authorized a fine may be levied in
addition to the imprisonment or a fine may be levied as an alternative to
imprisonment. Similarly, a fine may be levied in lieu of imprisonment. Whether
or not the fine is to be levied as the sole penalty or as an additional or
alternative penalty shall be in the discretion of the judge or jury as the case
may be. If the trial is by jury then the jury shall have the discretion. This
rule shall apply in all cases where a fine is not the exclusive penalty
authorized by law.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided for an offense defined outside this
title, a person who has been convicted of any offense other than a felony may
be sentenced to pay a fine in an amount not to exceed:
      (1)   For a Class A misdemeanor, $500; or
      (2)   For a Class B misdemeanor, $250; or
      (3)   For a violation, $250.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a corporation.
(KRS 534.040)
§ 139.02 SENTENCE OF IMPRISONMENT FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   A sentence of imprisonment for a misdemeanor shall be a definite term and
shall be fixed within the following maximum limitations:
   (A)   For a Class A misdemeanor, the term shall not exceed 12 months; and
   (B)   For a Class B misdemeanor, the term shall not exceed 90 days.
(KRS 532.090)
§ 139.03 FINES FOR FELONIES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided for an offense defined outside this
title, a person who has been convicted of any felony and granted a sentence of
probation or conditional discharge may be sentenced to pay a fine in an amount
not to exceed $10,000 or double his gain from commission of the offense,
whichever is the greater.
   (B)   In determining the amount and method of paying a fine for commission
of a felony, the court shall consider, among others, the following factors:
      (1)   The defendant's ability to pay the amount of the fine;
      (2)   The hardship likely to be imposed on the defendant's dependents by
the amount of the fine and the time and method of paying it;
      (3)   The impact the amount of the fine will have on the defendant's
ability to make reparation or restitution to the victim; and
      (4)   The amount of the defendant's gain, if any, derived from the
commission of the offense.
   (C)   When a defendant is convicted of two or more felonies committed
through a single act and is sentenced to fines pursuant to division (A) above,
the aggregate amount of such fines shall not exceed $10,000 or double the
amount of the defendant's gain from commission of the offenses, whichever is
the greater.
   (D)   This section does not apply to a corporation.
(KRS 534.030)
§ 139.04 SENTENCE OF IMPRISONMENT FOR FELONY.
   (A)   A sentence of imprisonment for a felony shall be an indeterminate
sentence, the maximum of which shall be fixed within the limits provided by
division (B) below, and subject to modification by the trial judge pursuant to
KRS 532.070.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the authorized maximum terms of
imprisonment for felonies are:
      (1)   For a Class A felony, not less than 20 years nor more than life
imprisonment;
      (2)   For a Class B felony, not less than 10 years nor more than 20
years;
      (3)   For a Class C felony, not less than 5 years nor more than 10 years;
and
      (4)   For a Class D felony, not less than one year nor more than 5 years.
   (C)   The actual time of release within the maximum established by division
(A) above, or as modified pursuant to KRS 532.070, shall be determined under
procedures established elsewhere by law.
(KRS 532.060)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
152.   FLOOD PROTECTION DEVELOPMENT CONTROLS
      
153.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
      
154.   SWIMMING POOLS
      
155.   TRAILERS
      
156.   ZONING CODE
      
157.   FIRE PREVENTION CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Adoption of Kentucky Building Code
   
150.02   Application
   
150.03   Building permits
   
150.04   Electrical permits
   
150.05   Enforcement
   
150.06   Building Inspector/Zoning Administrator
   
150.07   Appeals; fees
Surface Water
   
150.15   Surface water drainage regulated
   
150.16   Building drains
   
150.17   Existing drains allowed; regulations
   
150.18   City authorized to abate violation; notice
Residential Code
   
150.25   2002 Kentucky Residential Code adopted by reference
   
150.26   Revisions and amendments
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   The Kentucky Building Code, as contained in Chapter 7, Title 815 of
the Kentucky Administrative Regulations; the Kentucky Plumbing Code, as
contained in Chapter 20, Title 815 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations;
the Kentucky Standards of Safety, as contained in Chapter 10, Title 815 of the
Kentucky Administrative Regulations, are hereby adopted by reference as if
fully set forth in this code of ordinances. Copies of the above codes and any
amendments thereto shall be placed on file in the office of the City Clerk/Tax
Collector where they shall be available for public inspection during normal
business hours.
   (B)   Each of the codes, including all penalty provisions thereof and
including any amendments thereto, shall be in force throughout the city.
§ 150.02 APPLICATION.
   The application of the State Building Code is extended to all single-family
dwellings in the city which are to be constructed or remodeled.
§ 150.03 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   Required. Any owner, authorized agent, or contractor who desires to
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, demolish, or change the occupancy of a
building or structure; erect or construct a sign of any description; or cause
any such work to be done, shall first make application to the Building
Inspector and obtain the required permit. Ordinary minor repairs may be made
without a permit, provided the repairs do not violate any of the provisions of
the Kentucky Building Code as adopted in §
150.01. ('78 Code, 940.2, § VII)
   (B)   Permit applications.
      (1)   Each application for a permit with the required fee shall be filed
with the Building Inspector on a form furnished by him and shall contain a
general description of the proposed work and its location. The applicant shall
sign the application.
      (2)   Each applicant for a permit shall indicate the proposed occupancy
of all parts of the building or structure, and shall contain such other
information as may be required by the Building Inspector.
      (3)   The Building Inspector shall require one or more copies of drawings
of the proposed building or structure and of every existing building or
structure on the site or lot. He may also require a boundary line survey, if
necessary, prepared by a qualified surveyor.
('78 Code, 940.2, § VIII)
(Ord. 33-1960, passed 2-11-60)
   (C)   Fees.
      (1)   With each application for a building permit from the City of Taylor
Mill, the applicant shall cause a fee therefore to be paid to the City of
Taylor Mill, in an amount identified in the building permit fee schedule, which
is attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
      (2)   All fees paid to the City of Taylor Mill, with an application for a
building permit or a zoning permit, shall be deposited in the General Fund of
the City of Taylor Mill; and no part thereof shall ever be returned or
refunded, for any reason.
(Ord. 111 (05-28-97), passed 5-28-97; Am. Ord. 227 (8-10-05), passed 8-10-05)
   (D)   Expiration of permit. Any permit issued shall become invalid unless
the work authorized by it is commenced within six months after issuance of the
permit. If the work is suspended or abandoned for a year after the time the
work is commenced, the permit shall also become invalid. ('78 Code, 940.2, §
IX) (Ord. 33-1960, passed 2-11-60)
   (E)   As a civil penalty for the violation of this section, and in addition
to any other penalty or liability, civil or criminal, for the violation; the
fee for any permit required by this section shall be doubled in the event that
any of the work or other activity for which a permit is required is begun or
occurs without the required permit. (Ord. 4-3-98, passed 4-13-89)
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 ELECTRICAL PERMITS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   "ELECTRICAL." The installation of wires and conduits for the
purpose of transmitting electricity and the installation of fixtures and
equipment in connection therewith.
      (2)   "ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR." Any individual, partnership, or
corporation that engages in the business of or employs others for the
construction, alteration, or repair of any electrical wiring used for the
purpose of furnishing heat, light, or power.
('78 Code, 940.2, § II)
   (B)   Before any permit is issued pursuant to law within the city for the
alteration, construction, or repair of electrical wiring, and before approval
of any inspection required within the city, the permit or approval certificate
shall bear the name of the electrical contractor performing such work. ('78
Code, 940.3, § IV)
(W.P. Ord. 7-1963, passed 11-5-63)
   (C)   Fees. With each application for an electric permit from the city, the
applicant shall cause a fee therefore to be paid to the City of Taylor Mill, in
an amount identified in the schedule of fees, which is attached hereto and
incorporated herein by reference. (Ord. 227 (8-10-05), passed 8-10-05)
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Building Inspector/Zoning Administrator employed by the city shall
be designated as the local enforcement agent for the Kentucky Building Code.
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department and all other designated officers,
agents, and employees of the city are hereby charged with the enforcement of
the provisions of the Standards of Safety.
§ 150.06 BUILDING INSPECTOR/ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Establishment. The position of Building Inspector/Zoning Administrator
is hereby established.
   (B)   Appointment. The Building Inspector/Zoning Administrator shall be
appointed by the City Commission.
   (C)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector/Zoning Administrator
to administer, execute, and enforce any and all provisions of the official
building, housing, flood control, and zoning ordinances of the city.
      (2)   The Building Inspector/Zoning Administrator shall take any action
as permitted by law to correct the violations of the provisions of the official
building, housing, flood control, and zoning ordinances of the city.
      (3)   The Building Inspector/Zoning Administrator shall have the
authority to order discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings,
structures, signs, fences, or additions, alterations, or structural changes.
   (D)   Compensation. The compensation of the Building Inspector/ Zoning
Administrator shall be in an amount to be established by the City Commission by
ordinance.
§ 150.07 APPEALS; FEES.
   Appeals under this chapter shall be taken to the board of adjustments as set
out in the city's zoning regulations with fees established as follows:
   (A)   In order to partially finance some of the expenses of the Board of
Adjustments for the City of Taylor Mill, a fee of $50.00 is hereby established
and required for all applications and appeals thereto.
   (B)   In addition to all other fees, an applicant to the board of
adjustments shall reimburse the city for any extraordinary expenses in regard
to the application as determined by the board of adjustments. (Ord. 70 (9-14-
94), passed 9-14-94; 106 (3-26-97), passed 3-26-97)
SURFACE WATER
§ 150.15 SURFACE WATER DRAINAGE REGULATED.
   Nobody shall cause, permit, allow, aid, assist, encourage, promote or engage
in the installation, construction, maintenance, operation or use of an
unnatural drain, pipe or other conduit of rain water, surface water or ground
water, unless every point of drainage onto the surface of the ground is:
   (A)   Within the same lot or parcel of real estate from which the rain
water, ground water or surface water is collected; and at least five (5) feet
from the nearest boundary line of the lot or parcel and
   (B)   At a point which does not drain towards any public street, unless
every point of drainage is as far away as possible from any public street, and
at least twenty (20) feet from the nearest edge of any curb or pavement within
the street right of way.
(Ord. 29 (9-25-91), passed 9-25-91) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.16 BUILDING DRAINS.
   Roof downspouts, footings, and foundation drains shall be discharged onto
the same parcel of land from which the water is generated. Roof downspouts
shall be piped to natural drainage areas away from the street or onto concrete
splash blocks, which direct water away from any building structure into swales
or other natural drainage areas. Downspouts or other subsurface drains
constructed toward the street shall be discharged on the surface as far back
onto the lot as possible in accordance with §
150.15. No roof or subsurface drains shall be connected through the curb or
into the gutter section of any public street.
(Ord. 29 (9-25-91), passed 9-25-91) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.17 EXISTING DRAINS ALLOWED; REGULATIONS.
   Any unnatural pipe, drain or other conduit of rain water, surface or ground
water, in existence on the effective date of this subchapter, and which drains
through a curb and directly onto any public street pavement, may be continued
only in conformity with the following requirements met:
   (A)   The section from the back of curb to right of way shall be piped with
four (4) inch non-perforated Polyvinyl Chloride pipe (ASTM D3033, D3034, SDR-
35) or four (4) inch non-perforated ductile iron pipe (ANST A21-51, Class 50).
   (B)   A curb length of one (1) inch each side of the pipe level with the
gutter face shall be cut and removed. The pipe end shall be placed in the
section of the removed curb and mitered to approximately conform to the gutter
face.
   (C)   The horizontal alignment of the pipe shall be perpendicular to the
curb and shall have a minimum ¼"/foot grade falling toward the street.
   (D)   All joints shall be tight and waterproof.
   (E)   The back fill around the pipe within the right-of-way shall be local
soils compacted in place.
(Ord. 29 (9-25-91), passed 9-25-91)
§ 150.18 CITY AUTHORIZED TO ABATE VIOLATION; NOTICE.
   In the event that any lot or parcel real estate is in violation of the
provisions of this subchapter, the city may cause a written notice to be mailed
by certified mail, return receipt requested to the owners of the property
indicated on the ad valorem tax records of the city. If the violations are not
eliminated and the lot or parcel of real estate does not conform to this
subchapter within one hundred twenty (120) days after the written notice of
violations, the city may cause the violations to be eliminated and the lot or
parcel of real estate to conform to the requirements of this subchapter and
assess the cost of elimination of the violation against the owners of the
parcel of real estate. In order to secure payment of costs the city shall have
a lien upon the lot or parcel of real estate, including the costs of collection
thereof and reasonable attorney's fees.
(Ord. 29 (9-25-91), passed 9-25-91)
RESIDENTIAL CODE
§ 150.25 2002 KENTUCKY RESIDENTIAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Pursuant to the authority of KRS Ch. 198B, certain documents, three copies
of which are on file in the office of the City Clerk and the Northern Kentucky
Area Planning Commission, being marked and designated as the 2002 Kentucky
Residential Code, Chapters 1 through 43, as published by the International Code
Council, Inc. 5203 Leesburg Pike, Suite 708, Falls Church, Virginia, are hereby
adopted as the code of the city for regulating the design, construction,
quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair, location,
relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of one- and two-family
dwellings and townhouses not more than three stories in height in the city and
providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefore; and
each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of such 2002
Kentucky Residential Code are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part
hereof as if fully set out in this section.
(Ord. 222 (6-8-05), passed 6-8-05)
§ 150.26 REVISIONS AND AMENDMENTS.
   The 2002 Kentucky Residential Code is hereby amended as follows, as required
by KRS 83A.060 (3):
      Section R101.1: City of Taylor Mill.
(Ord. 222 (6-8-05), passed 6-8-05)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §
150.01 shall be subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   Violators of the State Building Code, the Uniform State Residential
Code, or any directive or order issued pursuant thereto, shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more
than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense. (KRS 198B.990 (1))
      (2)   Violators of the State Standards of Safety shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine of not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more
than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), imprisonment for not more than 60 days,
or both, for each offense. (KRS 227.990 (1))
      (3)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall be, upon conviction,
guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of not less than ten dollars
($10.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00), imprisonment for not more
than 90 days, or both, for each offense. (KRS 318.990).
   (B)   Whoever violates any other provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
each offense.
   (C)   Any person who violates any other terms or provisions of §§
150.15 - 150.18 shall be, upon conviction, guilty of a misdemeanor and fined
for each offense no less than ten dollars ($10.00) or more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00), or sentenced to imprisonment for no more than ninety (90)
days, according to law, or any combination of sentences of fines and
imprisonment.
(Ord. 29 (9-25-91), passed 9-25-91)
CHAPTER 151: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
151.01   Adoption by reference
§ 151.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The portion of the updated area-wide comprehensive plan adopted by the
Kenton County and Municipal Planning and Zoning Commission, with modifications,
on January 7, 1982 which is applicable to the City of Taylor Mill is hereby
adopted and approved as the up-dated comprehensive plan for the city, and is
hereby made a part of this code as if set out in full herein.
(Ord. 1-9-82, passed - -82)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD PROTECTION DEVELOPMENT CONTROLS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Findings of fact
   
152.02   Purpose; objectives
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   Lands to which regulations apply
   
152.05   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
152.06   Establishment of development permit
   
152.07   Compliance
   
152.08   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.09   Interpretation
   
152.10   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
152.15   Designation of Local Administrator
   
152.16   Establishment of development permit
   
152.17   Duties and responsibilities of the Local Administrator
   
152.18   Appeals and variance procedure
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.25   General construction standards
   
152.26   Specific standards
   
152.27   Standards for streams without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways
   
152.28   Standards for shallow flooding zones
   
152.29   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
152.30   Standards for accessory structures in all zones beginning with the
letter 'A'
   
152.31   Critical facilities
Enforcement
   
152.98   Enforcement; violation notice
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increased flood height and velocity, and by the location
in flood hazard areas of uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to other lands
which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise protected from
flood damage.
(Ord. 291 (05-07-2013), passed 5-7-13)
§ 152.02 PURPOSE; OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare and to minimize public and private loss due to
flooding by provisions designed to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood height or velocity.
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction.
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which accommodate or channel flood waters.
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage.
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
areas.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are to:
      (1)   Protect human life and health;
      (2)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines; streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
      (6)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard or other flood-prone areas in such
a manner as to minimize future flood blighted areas caused by flooding;
      (7)   Ensure that potential homebuyers are on notice that property is in
a special flood hazard area; and,
      (8)   Ensure that those who occupy a special flood hazard area assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. 291 (05-07-2013), passed 5-7-13)
§ 152.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “A ZONE.” Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 1% annual chance flood
(100-year flood). Base flood elevations (BFEs) are not determined.
   “ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE).” A structure located on the
same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Accessory structures should
constitute a minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation,
and should be designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of
accessory structures are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns,
and hay sheds.
   “ACCESSORY USE.” A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   “ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE).” Any walled and roofed expansion to
the perimeter of a structure.
   “AE ZONES.” Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 1% annual chance
flood (100-year flood). Base flood elevations (BFEs) are determined.
   “AH ZONE.” An area of 100-year shallow flooding where depths are between one
and three feet (usually shallow ponding). Base flood elevations are determined.
   “AO ZONE.” An area of 100-year shallow flooding where water depth is between
one and three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain). Flood depths are
determined.
   “APPEAL.” A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or from the Floodplain
Administrator's ruling on a request for a variance.
   “AR/A1 - A30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO, and AR/A ZONES.” Special Flood Hazard
Areas (SFHAs) that result from the de-certification of a previously accredited
flood protection system that is in the process of being restored to provide a
100-year or greater level of flood protection. After restoration is complete
these areas will still experience residual flooding from other flooding
sources.
   “A99 ZONE.” That part of the SFHA inundated by the 100-year flood which is
to be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection system
under construction. No base flood elevations are determined.
   “AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.” A designated AO or AH Zone on a community's
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) where the base flood depths range from one to
three feet; there is no clearly defined channel; the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   “BASE FLOOD.” A flood which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year (also called the "100-year flood"). “Base flood” is the term
used throughout this chapter.
   “BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE).” The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, A1-30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/Al-A30. AR/AH, and
AR/AO that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that
has a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   “BASEMENT.” Any area of a structure having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   “BUILDING.” See definition for “structure”.
   “COMMUNITY.” A political entity having the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   “COMMUNITY FLOOD HAZARD AREA (CFHA).” An area that has been determined by
the Floodplain Administrator (or other delegated, designated, or qualified
community official) from available technical studies, historical information,
and other available and reliable sources, which may be subject to periodic
inundation by floodwaters that can adversely affect the public health, safety
and general welfare. Included are areas downstream from dams.
   “COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS).” A program developed by the Federal
Insurance Administration to provide incentives to those communities in the
regular program to go beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures for protection from flooding.
   “CRITICAL FACILITY.” Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety or a facility which, if unusable or
unreachable because of flooding, would seriously and adversely affect the
health and safety of the public. Critical facilities include, but are not
limited to: housing likely to contain occupants not sufficiently mobile to
avoid injury or death unaided during a flood; schools, nursing homes,
hospitals, police, fire and emergency response installations, vehicle and
equipment storage facilities, emergency operations centers likely to be called
upon before, during and after a flood, public and private utility facilities
important to maintaining or restoring normal services before, during and after
a flood, and those facilities or installations which produce, use or store
volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic and/or water-reactive materials,
hazardous materials or hazardous waste.
   “D ZONE.” An area in which the flood hazard is undetermined.
   “DEVELOPMENT.” Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   “ELEVATED STRUCTURE.” For insurance proposes, a non-basement structure built
to have the lowest floor elevated above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, posts, piers, pilings or columns.
   “ELEVATION CERTIFICATE.” A statement certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor on the FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification that verifies a structure's elevation and other related
information to verify compliance with this chapter.
   “EMERGENCY PROGRAM.” The initial phase under which a community participates
in the NFIP, intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   “ENCLOSURE.” That portion of a structure below the lowest floor used solely
for parking of vehicles, limited storage, or access to the structure.
   “ENCROACHMENT.” The physical advance or infringement of uses, plant growth,
fill, excavation, structures, or development into a floodplain, which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   “EXISTING CONSTRUCTION.” Any structure for which the "start of construction"
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for
FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing construction" may also be referred
to as "existing structures".
   “EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.” A manufactured home park
or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots
on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first floodplain management ordinance adopted by a community.
   “EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.” The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   “FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD.” The flood that has a 0.2 percent chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any year. Areas subject to the 500-year flood have a
moderate risk of flooding.
   “FLOOD” or “FLOODING.” - A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
      (3)   Mudslides which are proximately caused by flooding and are akin to
a river of liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas,
as when earth is carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of
the current.
      (4)   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or
other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding.
   “FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM).” A map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has delineated the areas of flood hazards
and the regulatory floodway.
   “FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM).” A map on which the boundaries of the
flood, mudslide (i.e. mudflow), and flood-related erosion areas having special
hazards have been designated as Zones A, M, and/or E by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA).
   “FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM).” A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) has delineated special flood hazard areas and risk
premium zones.
   “FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY.” The report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) containing flood profiles, the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM), and/or the Flood Boundary Floodway Map (FBFM), and the water
surface elevation of the base flood.
   “FLOODPLAIN” or “FLOOD-PRONE AREA.” Any land area susceptible to being
inundated by flood waters from any source.
   “FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.” The individual appointed by the community to
administer and enforce the floodplain management ordinances.
   “FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT.” The operation of an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing
natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited to emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management ordinances, and
open space plans.
   “FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS.” This chapter and other zoning
ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
special purpose ordinances (such as grading and erosion control), and other
applications of police power, which control development in flood-prone areas.
This term describes federal, state and/or local regulations, in any combination
thereof, which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
   “FLOODPROOFING.” Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   “FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE.” A certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect, the FEMA form in effect at the time of certification
stating that a non-residential structure, together with attendant utilities and
sanitary facilities is watertight to a specified design elevation with walls
that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water and all structural
components are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic flood forces,
including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated debris impact forces.
   “FLOODWAY.” The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. Also
referred to as the "regulatory floodway".
   “FLOODWAY FRINGE.” That area of the floodplain on either side of the
regulatory floodway.
   “FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION.” As related in §§
152.18, Appeals and Variance Procedures, means that the variance granted must
not cause fraud on or victimization of the public. In examining this
requirement, the city will consider the fact that every newly constructed
structure adds to government responsibilities and remains a part of the
community for 50 to 100 years. Structures that are permitted to be constructed
below the base flood elevation are subject during all those years to increased
risk of damage from floods, while future owners of the property and the
community as a whole are subject to all the costs, inconvenience, danger, and
suffering that those increased flood damages may incur. In addition, future
owners may purchase the property, unaware that it is subject to potential flood
damage, and can be insured only at very high flood insurance rates.
   “FREEBOARD.” A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood. Freeboard must be applied not
just to the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofing level, but also to
the level of protection provided to all components of the structure, such as
building utilities, HVAC components, and the like.
   “FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE FACILITY.” A facility, structure, or other
development, which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located
or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only a docking or
port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term storage,
manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   “GOVERNING BODY.” The local governing unit, i.e. county or municipality that
is empowered to adopt and implement ordinances to provide for the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
   “HAZARD POTENTIAL.” The possible adverse incremental consequences that
result from the release of water or stored contents due to failure of a dam or
misoperation of a dam or appurtenances. The hazard potential classification of
a dam does not reflect in any way the current condition of a dam and its
appurtenant structures (e.g., safety, structural integrity, flood routing
capacity).
   “HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE.” The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   “HISTORIC STRUCTURE.” Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   “INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC).”
      (1)   Increased cost of compliance coverage means under the standard
flood insurance policy the cost to repair a substantially flood damaged
building that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to bring a
substantially damaged building into compliance with the local flood damage
prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are floodproofing
(nonresidential), relocation, elevation, demolition, or any combination
thereof.
      (2)   ICC coverage is available on residential and non-residential
buildings (this category includes public or government buildings, such as
schools, libraries, and municipal buildings) insured under the NFIP.
   “LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC).” An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps, and Flood Insurance Studies. LOMC's include the following
categories:
      (1)   “LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA).” A revision based on technical
data showing that a property was inadvertently included in a designated SFHA. A
LOMA amends the current effective FIRM and establishes that a specific property
is not located in a SFHA.
      (2)   “LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR).” A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to man-made changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features.
      (3)   “LETTER OF MAP REVISION - BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F).” A determination
that a structure or parcel has been elevated by properly placed, engineered
fill above the BFE and is, therefore, excluded from the SHFA.
   “LEVEE.” A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   “LEVEE SYSTEM.” A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   “LIMITED STORAGE.” An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items which can withstand exposure to the elements and have low
flood damage potential. Such an area must be of flood resistant material, void
of utilities except for essential lighting, and cannot be temperature
controlled.
   “LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE.” The lowest elevation of the sidewalk, patio,
attached garage, deck support, or basement entry way or grade immediately next
to the structure and after the completion of construction.
   “LOWEST FLOOR.” The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area including
basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, structure access, or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a structure's lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   “MANUFACTURED HOME.” A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or
without a permanent foundation when connected or attached to the required
utilities. The term also includes park trailers, travel trailers, and similar
transportable structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer
and intended to be improved property. The term “manufactured home” does not
include a "recreational vehicle" (see “recreational vehicle”).
   “MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.” A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   “MAP.” The Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
   “MAP PANEL NUMBER.” The four-digit number on a flood map, followed by a
letter suffix, assigned by FEMA. The first four digits represent the map panel.
The letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been
revised. (The letter "A" is not used by FEMA, the letter "B" is the first
revision.)
   “MARKET VALUE.” The property value (as agreed between a willing buyer and
seller), excluding the value of the land as established by what the local real
estate market will bear. Market value of the structure can be established by
independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated by age of
structure (Actual Cash Value) or adjusted assessed values.
   “MEAN SEA LEVEL (MSL).” The average height of the sea for all stages of the
tide. For the purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the MSL is used
as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain as
shown on the community's FIRM. For purposes of this chapter, the term is
synonymous with either National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or North
American Vertical Datum (NAVD) 1988.
   “MITIGATION.” Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk
to people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of
mitigation is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the
costs of disaster response and recovery.
   “MUDSLIDE (I.E. MUDFLOW).” Describes a condition where there is a river,
flow, or inundation of liquid mud down a hillside, usually as a result of a
dual condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water
on the ground, preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
mudslide (i.e. mudflow) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide is
in progress, and will be recognized as such by the Floodplain Administrator
only if the mudflow. and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage
that occurs.
   “MUDSLIDE (I.E. MUDFLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT.” The operation of and overall
program of corrective and preventative measures for reducing mudslide (i.e.
mudflow) damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans,
mudslide control works, and floodplain management regulations.
   “MUDSLIDE (I.E. MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA.” An area with land surfaces and slopes
of unconsolidated material where the history, geology, and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
   “NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP).” The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   “NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD).” As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used as the vertical datum on the older FIRM's. Refer to
FIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   “NEW CONSTRUCTION.” Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of these floodplain management regulations and
includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   “NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.” A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   “NON-RESIDENTIAL.” Structures that are not designed for human habitation,
including but not limited to: small business concerns, churches, schools, farm
structures (including grain bins and silos), pool houses, clubhouses,
recreational structures, mercantile structures, agricultural and industrial
structures, warehouses, and hotels or motels with normal room rentals for less
than six months duration.
   “NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD).” As corrected in 1988, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used on the newer FIRM's and Digitally Referenced FIRM's
(DFIRM's). (Refer to FIRM or DFIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   “OBSTRUCTION.” Includes but is not limited to any dam, wall, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, structure, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, due to its location, its propensity to snare or
collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being carried
downstream.
   “ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD) (SEE BASE FLOOD).” The flood that
has a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any
flood zone that begins with the letter A is subject to inundation by the 100-
year flood. Over the life of a 30-year loan, there is a 26% chance of
experiencing such a flood with the SFHA.
   “PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY.” A community that voluntarily elects to
participate in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management
regulations that are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   “POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION.” New construction or substantial improvement that
started on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or
after December 31, 1974, whichever is later.
   “PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION.” New construction or substantial improvement, which
started on or before December 31, 1974, or before the effective date of the
initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   “PROBATION.” A FEMA imposed change in community's status resulting from
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations.
   “PROGRAM DEFICIENCY.” A defect in a community's floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management standards.
   “PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE.” Anything which is injurious to safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   “RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.” A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   “REGULAR PROGRAM.” The phase of a community's participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and flood
elevations determined in a FIS.
   “REGULATORY FLOODWAY.” The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
See “base flood”.
   “REMEDY A VIOLATION.” The process by which a community brings a structure or
other development into compliance with state or local floodplain management
regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impact of non-
compliance. Reduced impact may include protecting the structure or other
affected development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement
provisions of this chapter or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or
reducing state or federal financing exposure with regard to the structure or
other development.
   “REPAIR.” The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing
structure.
   “REPETITIVE LOSS.” Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   “REPETITIVE LOSS PROPERTY.” Any insurable building for which two or more
claims of more than $1,000 were paid by the National Flood Insurance Program
(NFIP) within any rolling ten-year period, since 1978. At least two of the
claims must be more than ten days apart but, within ten years of each other. A
RL property may or may not be currently insured by the NFIP.
   “RIVERINE.” Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
   “SECTION 1316.” That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new or renewal flood insurance coverage shall be
provided for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a
duly constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public
body to be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
are intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy
in flood-prone areas.
   “SEVERE REPETITIVE LOSS STRUCTURE.” Any insured property that has met at
least one of the following paid flood loss criteria since 1978, regardless of
ownership:
      (1)   Four or more separate claim payments of more than $5,000 each
(including building and contents payments); or
      (2)   Two or more separate claim payments (building payments only) where
the total of the payments exceeds the current market value of the property.
   In either case, two of the claim payments must have occurred within ten
years of each other. Multiple losses at the same location within ten days of
each other are counted as one loss, with the payment amounts added together.
   “SHEET FLOW AREA.” See "Area of shallow flooding".
   “SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).” That portion of the floodplain subject
to inundation by the base flood and/or flood-related erosion hazards as shown
on a FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1 - A30, AH, AO, or AR.
   “START OF CONSTRUCTION.” Includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development, and means the date a building permit is issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
placement or other improvement is within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
(including manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings, the installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; the installation on
the property of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   “STRUCTURE.” A walled and roofed building, including gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   “SUBDIVISION.” Any division, for the purposes of sale, lease, or
development, either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans,
terms and conditions, of any tract or parcel of land into two or more lots or
parcels.
   “SUBROGATION.” A legal action brought by FEMA to recover insurance money
paid out where all or part of the damage can be attributed to acts or omissions
by a community or other third party.
   “SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.” Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   “SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.” Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, taking place during a one-year period in
which the cumulative percentage of improvements equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the "start of construction" of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local Code Enforcement Official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
      (2)   Any alteration of a "historic structure" provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
"historic structure".
   “SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS.”
Repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of the streets,
utilities, and pads equaling or exceeding 50% of the value of the streets,
utilities, and pads before the repair, reconstruction, or improvement
commenced.
   “SUSPENSION.” Removal of a participating community from the NFIP for failure
to enact and/or enforce floodplain management regulations required for
participation in the NFIP.
   “UTILITIES.” Include, but not limited to, electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment that service the structure and the
site.
   “VARIANCE.” Relief from some or all of the requirements of this chapter.
   “VIOLATION.” Failure of a structure or other development to fully comply
with this chapter. A structure or other development without the elevation
certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   “WATER SURFACE ELEVATION.” The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or river
areas.
   “WATERCOURSE.” A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which water flows at least periodically.
   “WATERSHED.” All the area within a geographic boundary from which water,
sediments, dissolved materials, and other transportable materials drain or are
carried by water to a common outlet, such as a point on a larger stream, lake,
or underlying aquifer.
   “X (SHADED) AND B ZONES.” Areas of the 0.2% annual chance (500-year) flood
that are outside of the SFHA, areas subject to the 100-year flood with average
depths of less than one foot or with contributing drainage area less than one
square mile, and areas protected by levees from the base flood.
   “X (UNSHADED) AND C ZONES.” Areas determined to be outside the 500-year
floodplain.
   “ZONE.” A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or a Flood
Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
(Ord. 291 (05-07-2013), passed 5-7-13)
§ 152.04 LANDS TO WHICH REGULATIONS APPLY.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas (SFHA), areas
applicable to KRS 151.250 and, as determined by the Floodplain Administrator or
other delegated, designated, or qualified community official as determined by
the legislative body from available technical studies, historical information,
and other available and reliable sources, areas within the jurisdiction of the
legislative body which may be subject to periodic inundation by floodwaters
that can adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
(Ord. 291 (05-07-2013), passed 5-7-13)
§ 152.05 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Kenton County,
dated May 16, 2013, with the accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMS),
other supporting data and any subsequent amendments thereto, are hereby adopted
by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations, and for those land
areas acquired through annexation. This FIS and attendant mapping is the
minimum area of applicability of this chapter and may be supplemented by
studies for other areas which allow implementation of this chapter and which
are recommended to the City Commission by the Floodplain Administrator and are
enacted by City Commission pursuant to statutes governing land use management
regulations. The FIS and/or FIRM are permanent records of the city and are on
file and available for review by the public during regular business hours at
the NKAPC offices at 2332 Royal Drive, Fort Mitchell, Kentucky, 41091.
(Ord. 291 (05-07-2013), passed 5-7-13)
§ 152.06 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provision of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in the special flood hazard areas (SFHA). See §
152.16 for instructions and explanation.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 291 (05-07-2013), passed 5-7-13)
§ 152.07 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable state regulations. Violation of the
requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing herein
shall prevent the legislative body from taking such lawful action as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 291 (05-07-2013), passed 5-7-13)
§ 152.08 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 291 (05-07-2013), passed 5-7-13)
§ 152.09 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 291 (05-07-2013), passed 5-7-13)
§ 152.10 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this section of the chapter is
considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and
engineering consideration. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions.
Flood heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This section of
the chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard
or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage.
This section of the chapter shall not create liability on the part of the Local
Floodplain Administrator or any officer or employee thereof for any flood
damages that result from reliance on these regulations or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 291 (05-07-2013), passed 5-7-13)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.15 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The city legislative body hereby appoints the NKAPC's Deputy Director for
Current Planning to administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
chapter by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions, and is herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 291 (05-07-2013), passed 5-7-13)
§ 152.16 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or other
development begins within any special flood hazard area established in §
152.05. Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by Floodplain Administrator prior to any development activities, and may
include, but not be limited to, the following: plans in duplicate drawn to
scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in
question; existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage
facilities; and the location of the foregoing. Endorsement of Floodplain
Administrator is required before a state floodplain construction permit can be
processed. Specifically, the following information is required.
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level (MSL) of the
proposed lowest floor (including basement) of all structures in Zone A and
elevation of highest adjacent grade; or
      (2)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure will be flood-proofed;
      (3)   All appropriate certifications from a registered professional
engineer or architect that the non-residential flood- proofed structure will
meet the flood-proofing criteria in §
152.26(B) and
152.28 (B);
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of the proposed development.
   (B)   Construction stage.
      (1)   Upon placement of the lowest floor, and before construction
continues, or flood proofing by whatever construction means, it shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator and to the
state a certification of the elevation of the lowest floor or flood-proofed
elevation, as built, in relation to mean sea level. In AE, A1-30, AH, and A
zones where the community has adopted a regulatory base flood elevation, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same.
      (2)   When flood proofing is utilized for a particular structure, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
certified professional engineer or architect. Any continued work undertaken
prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder's
risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor and flood
proofing elevation survey data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review
shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further
progressive work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or
failure to make said corrections required hereby, shall be cause to issue a
stop- work order for the project.
(Ord. 291 (05-07-2013), passed 5-7-13)
§ 152.17 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or staff is hereby appointed,
authorized and directed to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. The Floodplain Administrator is further authorized to render
interpretations of this chapter, which are consistent with its spirit and
purpose by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Permit Review. Review all development permits to ensure that:
         (a)   Permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained:
review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have been
received from those governmental agencies from which approval is required by
federal or state law, including section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334;
         (c)   Flood damages will be reduced in the best possible manner;
         (d)   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of affected watercourses. For purposes of this chapter, "adversely
affects" means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
      (2)   Review and use of any other base flood data. When base flood
elevation data has not been provided in accordance with §
152.05, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal or
state agency, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §
152.25. Any such information shall be submitted to the legislative body for
adoption.
      (3)   Notification of other agencies.
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities, the Kentucky Division of Water, and
any other federal and/or state agencies with statutory or regulatory authority
prior to any alteration or relocation of the watercourse, and
         (b)   Submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA); and
         (c)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse is maintained.
      (4)   Documentation of Floodplain Development. Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed the following:
         (a)   Certification required by §
152.26(A) (lowest floor elevations) as shown on an accurately completed and
certified Elevation Certificate. Verify and record the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new
and substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
152.16(B);
         (b)   Certification required by §
152.26(B) (elevation or floodproofing of nonresidential structures) as shown on
an accurately completed and certified FEMA floodproofing certificate. Verify
and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the
new and substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed, in
accordance with §
152.16(A);
         (c)   Certification required by §
152.26(C) (elevated structures);
         (d)   Certification of elevation required by §
152.29(A) (subdivision standards),
         (e)   Certification required by §
152.26(E) (floodway encroachments);
         (f)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood- carrying capacity is
maintained;
         (g)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance; and
         (h)   Remedial action. Take action to remedy violations of this
chapter as specified in §
152.98.
      (5)   Map determinations. Make interpretations where needed, as to the
exact location of the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions.
         (a)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. The
person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
152.18(C)(1);
         (b)   When base flood elevation data and floodway data have not been
provided in accordance with §
152.05, then the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §
152.25;
         (c)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
Floodplain Administrator shall obtain certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect, in accordance with §
152.26(B) a floodproofing certificate;
         (d)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall
be maintained in the office of the Floodplain Administrator and shall be open
for public inspection.
      (6)   Right of entry.
         (a)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the Floodplain Administrator has
reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any structure or upon any
premises any condition or ordinance violation which makes such building,
structure or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the Floodplain
Administrator may enter such building, structure or premises at all reasonable
times to inspect the same or perform any duty imposed upon the Floodplain
Administrator by this chapter.
         (b)   If such structure or premises are occupied, the Floodplain
Administrator shall first present proper credentials and request entry. If such
building, structure, or premises are unoccupied, he shall first make a
reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control
of such request entry.
         (c)   If entry is refused, the Floodplain Administrator shall have
recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
         (d)   When the Floodplain Administrator shall have first obtained a
proper inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no
owner or occupant or any other persons having charge, care or control of any
building, structure, or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is
made as herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the Floodplain
Administrator for the purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this
chapter.
      (7)   Stop Work Orders. Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator,
work on any building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the
provisions of this chapter shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in
writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, or to his agent, or to
the person performing the work, and shall state the conditions under which work
may be resumed.
      (8)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of this chapter, in case there has been any false
statement or misrepresentation as to the materia! fact in the application or
plans on which the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination that the construction, erection, alteration, repair, moving,
demolition, installation, or replacement of the structure for which the permit
was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the provisions of
this chapter.
      (9)   Liability. Any officer, employee, or member of the Floodplain
Administrator's staff, charged with the enforcement of this chapter, acting for
the applicable governing authority in the discharge of his or her duties, shall
not thereby render personally liable, and is hereby relieved from all personal
liability, for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of
any act required or permitted in the discharge of his or her duties. Any suit
brought against any officer, employee, or member because of such act performed
by him or her in the enforcement of any provision of this chapter shall be
defended by the Department of Law until the final termination of the
proceedings.
      (10)   Expiration of Floodplain Construction Permit. A floodplain
development permit, and all provisions contained therein, shall expire if the
"start of construction" has not occurred within 180 calendar days from the date
of its issuance.
(Ord. 291 (05-07-2013), passed 5-7-13)
§ 152.18 APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Nature of variances.
      (1)   The variance criteria set forth in this section are based on the
general principle of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of property
and are not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for a parcel of
property with physical characteristics so unusual that complying with the
requirements of this chapter would create an exceptional hardship to the
applicant or the surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be
unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique
characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the structure, its
inhabitants, or the property owners.
      (2)   It is the duty of the legislative body to help protect its citizens
from flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of
insuring a structure built below flood level is so serious that variances from
the flood elevation or from other requirements in the flood ordinance are quite
rare. The long-term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can
only be met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance
guidelines provided in this chapter are more detailed and contain multiple
provisions that must be met before a variance can be properly granted. The
criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives
other than a variance are more appropriate.
   (B)   Designation of Variance and Appeal Board. The Board of Adjustment
shall hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements
of these regulations.
   (C)   Duties of Board of Adjustment.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide requests for
variances from the requirements of this chapter and appeals of decisions or
determinations made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Adjustment may
appeal such decision to the Circuit Court, as provided in Kentucky Revised
Statutes.
   (D)   Variance procedures. In passing upon such applications, the Board of
Adjustment shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all
standards specified in other sections of this chapter, and the:
      (1)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
      (2)   Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
      (4)   Importance to the community of the services provided by the
existing or proposed facility;
      (5)   Necessity that the facility be located on a waterfront, in the case
of functionally dependent use;
      (6)   Availability of alternative locations, which are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
      (10)   Expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
      (11)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, water systems, streets, and bridges and
culverts.
   (E)   Conditions for variances. Upon consideration of the factors listed
above and the purposes of this chapter, the Board of Adjustment may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway
if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the "minimum necessary" to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. "Minimum necessary" means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation
from the requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to
an elevation requirement, this means the legislative body need not grant
permission for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation
the applicant proposes, but only to that elevation which the legislative body
believes will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the local
ordinance.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood height, additional threats to public safety, cause
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance (as defined in the definition
section under "Public safety and nuisance"), cause fraud or victimization of
the public (as defined in the definition section) or conflict with existing
local laws or ordinances.
      (4)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
lowest floor being situated below the base flood elevation.
      (5)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) upon request.
      (6)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement, and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use provided that the provisions of division (D) are
satisfied and that the structure or other development is protected by methods
that minimize flood damages during the base flood and does not result in
additional threats to public safety and does not create a public nuisance.
   (F)   Variance notification. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted
shall be given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the Kenton County Clerk and shall be recorded in
a manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of
land.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance or denial, and
report such variances issued in the community's biennial report submission to
the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (G)   Historic structures. Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of "historic structures" (see definition) upon determination
that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's
continued designation as an historic structure and the variance is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
(Ord. 291 (05-07-2013), passed 5-7-13)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.25 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy;
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
and lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air condition equipment,
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding; and if
   (F)   Within Zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
   (G)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (H)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters;
   (I)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a structure
which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of "new construction" as contained in this chapter;
   (K)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a structure
which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall be
undertaken only if said non-conformity is not furthered, extended, or replaced.
(Ord. 291 (05-07-2013), passed 5-7-13)
§ 152.26 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation data have been
provided, as set forth in §
152.05, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Residential construction.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure (including manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, mechanical equipment, and ductwork elevated no lower than two feet
above the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used
to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate automatic
equalization of hydrostatic flood forces on walls shall be provided in
accordance with standards of §
152.26(C).
         (a)   In an AO zone, the lowest floor shall be elevated above the
highest adjacent grade to a height equal to or higher than the depth number
specified in feet on the FIRM, or elevated at least two feet above the highest
adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.
         (b)   In an A zone, where no technical data has been produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Floodplain Administrator will
determine the method by which base flood elevations are determined. Methods
include, but are not limited to, detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analyses,
use of existing data available from other sources, approximate methods, use of
historical data, best supportable and reasonable judgement in the event no data
can be produced. The lowest floor shall be elevated no lower than 2 feet above
such base flood elevation. Title 401 KAR (Kentucky Administrative Regulations)
Chapter 4, Regulation 060, Section 5 (5)a, states as a part of the technical
requirements for a State Floodplain Permit: The applicant shall provide cross
sections for determining floodway boundaries (and thereby base flood
elevations) at any proposed construction site where FEMA maps are not
available. All cross sections shall be referenced to mean sea level and shall
have vertical error tolerances of no more than + five-tenths (0.5) foot. Cross
sections elevations shall be taken at those points which represent significant
breaks in slope and at points where hydraulic characteristics of the base
floodplain change. Each cross section shall extend across the entire base
floodplain and shall be in the number and at the locations specified by the
cabinet. If necessary to ensure that significant flood damage will not occur,
the cabinet may require additional cross sections or specific site elevations
which extend beyond those needed for making routine regulatory floodway
boundary calculations.
         (c)   In all other zones, elevated two feet above the base flood
elevation.
      (2)   Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor, and verified by the community building inspection
department to be properly elevated. Such certification and verification shall
be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure
(including manufactured homes used for non-residential purposes) shall be
elevated to conform with §
152.26(A) or together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities:
      (1)   Be floodproofed to an elevation two feet above the level of the
base flood elevation so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy and debris;
      (3)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such certification along with
the design and operational maintenance plans shall be provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
      (4)   Manufactured homes shall meet the standards in §
152.26(D).
      (5)   All new construction and substantial improvement with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor (including basements) that are usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, and which are
subject to flooding, shall be constructed of flood resistant materials to an
elevation two feet above the base flood elevation, and, shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwater. Openings for meeting this requirement
must meet or exceed the standards of §
152.26(C).
   (C)   Elevated structures. New construction and substantial improvements of
elevated structures on columns, posts, or pilings that include fully enclosed
areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the lowest floor
shall be designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow for
the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls.
      (1)   Openings for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or higher
than the exterior foundation grade); and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
      (2)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door), limited storage of maintenance equipment
used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door), or entry to the
living area (stairway or elevator); and
      (3)   The interior portion of such enclosed areas shall not be finished
or partitioned into separate rooms.
   (D)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   All new and substantially improved manufactured homes placed on
sites located within A, Al-30, AO, AH, and AE on the community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must meet all the requirements for new construction,
including elevation and anchoring. Locations include:
         (a)   On individual lots or parcels,
         (b)   In expansions to existing manufactured home parks or
subdivisions,
         (c)   In new manufactured home parks or subdivisions,
         (d)   In substantially improved manufactured home parks or
subdivisions,
         (e)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision, and
         (f)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site
upon which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as the result
of a flood. All such manufactured homes must be:
            1.   Elevated on a permanent foundation, and
            2.   Have its lowest floor elevated no lower than two feet above
the level of the base flood elevation, and
            3.   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (2)   Except manufactured homes that have incurred substantial damage as
a result of a flood, all manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in
an existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated so that:
         (a)   The manufactured home is securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement,
so that either the:
            1.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower
than two feet above the base flood elevation, or
            2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less
than 36 inches in height above the highest adjacent grade.
      (3)   (a)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites located within A,
A1-30, AO, AH, and AE on the community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must
either:
            1.   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days,
            2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or
            3.   Meet the permit requirements for new construction of this
chapter, including anchoring and elevation requirements for "manufactured
homes".
         (b)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is
licensed and insured in accordance with the State of Kentucky motor vehicle
regulations, is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only
by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently
attached additions.
   (E)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
152.05, are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential, the following provisions
shall apply:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other developments unless certification (with
supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in the base
flood elevation levels during occurrence of base flood discharge;
      (2)   If §
152.26(E) is satisfied, all new construction and substantial improvements and
other proposed new development shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of §
152.25.
(Ord. 291 (05-07-2013), passed 5-7-13)
§ 152.27 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
152.05, where streams exist but where no base flood data has been provided or
where base flood data has been provided without floodways, the following
provisions apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures shall be
located within special flood hazard areas, unless certification by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community. The engineering
certification should be supported by technical data that conforms to standard
hydraulic engineering principles.
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvements of structures shall be
elevated or flood proofed to elevations established in accordance with §
152.05.
(Ord. 291 (05-07-2013), passed 5-7-13)
§ 152.28 STANDARDS FOR SHALLOW FLOODING ZONES.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
152.05, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have flood
hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet, where a clearly
defined channel does not exist and the water path of flooding is unpredictable
and indeterminate; therefore, the following provisions apply:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified
on the Flood Insurance Rate Map above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO,
if no flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non- residential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map, above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO, if no
flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely floodproofed either to the base flood elevation or above or, in Zone
AO, to or above the specified flood depth plus a minimum of one foot so that
any space below that level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
Certification is required as stated in §
152.26(B).
(Ord. 291 (05-07-2013), passed 5-7-13)
§ 152.29 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard area and the
elevation of the base flood and be consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   In areas where base flood elevation and floodway data is not
available, base flood elevation and floodway data for subdivision proposals and
other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and subdivisions)
greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is the lesser, shall be provided.
   (E)   All subdivision plans will include the elevation of proposed structure
(s) and lowest adjacent grade. If the site is filled above the base flood
elevation, the lowest floor and lowest adjacent grade elevations shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 291 (05-07-2013), passed 5-7-13)
§ 152.30 STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES IN ALL ZONES BEGINNING WITH THE
LETTER 'A'.
   For all accessory structures in special flood hazard areas designated 'A'
the following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   Must be non-habitable;
   (B)   Must be anchored to resist floatation and lateral movement;
   (C)   Must be provided with flood openings in accordance with the standards
of §
152.26(C);
   (D)   Must be built of flood resistant materials to two feet above the base
flood elevation;
   (E)   Must elevate utilities two feet above the base flood elevation;
   (F)   Can only be used for storage or parking; and
   (G)   Must not be modified for a different use after permitting.
(Ord. 291 (05-07-2013), passed 5-7-13)
§ 152.31 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA (100-year floodplain). Construction of
new critical facilities shall not be permissible within the floodway; however,
they may be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated one foot or more above the base flood elevation at the
site. Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 291 (05-07-2013), passed 5-7-13)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.98 ENFORCEMENT; VIOLATION NOTICE.
   (A)   Civil offense. If, at any time, development occurs which is not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying
with the terms and conditions of a floodplain development permit and any
approved modifications, such development shall constitute a civil offense.
   (B)   Notice of violation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain development permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator shall issue
a notice to the person responsible for the violation and/or the property owner,
stating the facts of the offense or violation, the section of this chapter and/
or of the permit violated, when it occurred, how the violation is to be
remedied to bring the development into conformity with this chapter or with the
approved permit, and within what period of time the remedy is to occur, which
period of time shall be reasonable and shall be determined by the nature of the
violation and whether or not it creates a nuisance or hazard. The remedy may
include an order to stop work on the development. The notice shall also state
that a citation may be forthcoming in the event that the requested remedies and
corrective actions are not taken, which citation will request a civil monetary
fine and shall state the maximum fine which could be imposed. See below.
   (C)   Notice of citation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain development permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator may issue a
citation to the offender stating the violation, prior notices of violation
issued, how the violation is to be remedied to bring the development into
conformity with this chapter or with the approved permit, and within what
period of time the remedy is to occur, and what penalty or penalties are
recommended. When a citation is issued, the person to whom the citation is
issued shall respond to the citation within seven days of the date the citation
is issued by either carrying out the remedies and corrections set forth in the
citation, paying the civil fine set forth in the citation or requesting a
hearing before the governing body. If the person to whom the citation is issued
does not respond to the citation within seven days, that person shall be deemed
to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a violation
occurred shall be considered final.
(Ord. 291 (05-07-2013), passed 5-7-13)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with granting of a variance or special exceptions, shall
constitute a Class A misdemeanor offense. Any person who violates this chapter
or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof,
be fined not more than $500 and/or imprisoned for not more than 12 months, and
in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day
such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent the Floodplain Administrator from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 291 (05-07-2013), passed 5-7-13)
CHAPTER 153: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
   
153.01   2003 International Property Maintenance Code adopted by reference;
revisions and amendments
 
   
153.99   Penalty
Cross reference:
   Property maintenance, nuisances, see §
93.09
§ 153.01 2003 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE;
REVISIONS AND AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority of KRS 83A.060 (5), the 2003 International
Property Maintenance Code, which was published in 2002 by the International
Code Council, Inc., 5203 Leesburg Pike, Suite 600, Falls Church, Virginia, a
copy of which accompanies Ordinance No. 205 (1-14-04), is hereby made a part of
the permanent records of the city, and the provisions thereof are hereby
adopted by reference thereto, without setting them out in full, but with the
revisions and amendments hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Revisions and amendments. The 2003 International Property Maintenance
Code is hereby amended as follows, as required by KRS 83A.060 (3):
      (1)   Section 101.1 on page 1 thereof is hereby amended as follows:
         101.1 Title.These regulations shall be known as the Property
Maintenance Code of the City of Taylor Mill, hereinafter referred to as "this
code".
      (2)   Section 103, on pages 1 and 2 thereof, is hereby amended according
to the provisions thereof attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference,
with the amendments indicated on the copy thereof attached hereto and
incorporated herein by reference.
      (3)   Section 106, on page 3 thereof, is hereby amended according to the
provisions thereof attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
      (4)   Section 107, on page 3 thereof, is hereby amended according to the
provisions thereof attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
      (5)   Section 111, on page 5 thereof, is hereby amended according to the
provisions thereof attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
      (6)   Section 202, on pages 7 and 8 thereof, is hereby amended according
to the provisions thereof attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
      (7)   Section 303.15, on page 10 thereof, is hereby amended according to
the provisions thereof attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
      (8)   Section 602.3, on page 17 thereof, is hereby amended according to
the provisions thereof attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
      (9)   Section 602.4, on page 17 thereof, is hereby amended according to
the provisions thereof attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 176 (7-11-01), passed 7-11-01; Am. Ord. 205 (1-14-04), passed 1-14-04)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Each violation and every other failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter shall be a misdemeanor; and each day of the continuation thereof shall
be a separate and distinct offense for which:
   (A)   Everybody convicted thereof in a court of competent jurisdiction shall
be sentenced to pay a criminal fine not to exceed the maximum amount of $500 as
set forth in KRS 534.050 (2)(a) or a term of imprisonment not to exceed the
maximum period of 12 months as set forth in KRS 532.090 (1), or both; and
   (B)   The offender shall be subject to a civil penalty of $100 plus the
costs of collection, including, without limitation, court costs and reasonable
attorney fees for each offense, which shall be recovered by the city in a civil
action in the nature of debt if not paid by the offender within 30 days after
citation for the violation or other failure to comply with the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 205 (1-14-04), passed 1-14-04)
CHAPTER 154: SWIMMING POOLS
Section
   
154.01   Pools to be fenced; requirements
   
154.02   Approval of Building Inspector required
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 POOLS TO BE FENCED; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Each swimming pool, pond, lake, or dammed creek located within the
city limits where water accumulates to a depth greater than 12 inches shall be
fenced in.
   (B)   The fence shall be at least 42 inches in height on all sides of the
hazard.
   (C)   The fence required may be of stone, brick, wire, wood, or other
suitable fencing material, but not shrubbery, trees, or hedges.
('78 Code, 720.1, §§ II, III) (Ord. 37-1960, passed - -60) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.02 APPROVAL OF BUILDING INSPECTOR REQUIRED.
   Before any swimming pool, pond, lake, or dammed creek is filled with water
to a depth exceeding one foot, the fence required by §
154.01 shall be approved by the Building Inspector and a certificate issued
stating that the fence meets the requirements as provided for in §
154.01 or any other ordinance of the city.
('78 Code, 720.l, § III) (Ord. 37-1960, passed - -60) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not more than 30
days, or both and the costs of prosecution.
('78 Code, 720.l, § IV) (Ord. 37-1960, passed - -60)
CHAPTER 155: TRAILERS
Section
   
155.01   Definitions
   
155.02   Location prohibited in certain locations; exceptions
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases have the
meanings indicated therefore:
   "ANYBODY." Any human being, or any organization or combination thereof in
the form of a corporation, partnership, joint venture, unincorporated
association or otherwise.
   "CAMPING TRAILER." The same meaning as that provided in KRS 227.550 (14)(b).
   "FRONT BOUNDARY LINE." The boundary line between any lot or parcel of real
estate which is a boundary line in common with the only public street or right-
of-way upon which the lot or parcel of real estate abuts; but in the event that
the lot or parcel of real estate abuts upon more than one public street or
right-of-way for motor vehicle traffic, the words "FRONT BOUNDARY LINE" means
the boundary line in common with the shortest abutting public street or right-
of-way for motor vehicle traffic, unless the principal, or front door of any
principal building constructed upon the lot or parcel of real estate faces
another public street or right-of-way for motor vehicle traffic. In that event
the words "FRONT BOUNDARY LINE" means the boundary line in common with that
street which the principal building or front door faces.
   "FRONT YARD." The largest portion of any lot or parcel of real estate which
is between the front boundary line and lines parallel thereto which intersect:
      (A)   The nearest point in the outside limit of the area of the lot or
parcel of real estate within which any building may be constructed according to
statutes, ordinances, rules, regulations and all other applicable laws and
legislation; and
      (B)   The point of any building constructed on the lot or parcel which is
nearest to the front boundary line.
   "MOTOR HOME." The same meaning as that provided in KRS 227.550 (14)(d).
   "NOBODY." Not anybody, or no human being, or any organization or combination
thereof in the form of a corporation, partnership, joint venture,
unincorporated association or otherwise.
   "REAR BOUNDARY LINE." Those boundary lines or any lot or parcel of real
estate which are most nearly in the same direction as the front boundary line.
   "REAR YARD." The largest portion of any lot or parcel of real estate which
is between the rear boundary line and lines parallel thereto which intersect:
      (A)   The nearest point in the outside limit of the area of the lot or
parcel of real estate within which any building may be constructed according to
statutes, ordinances, rules, regulations and any other applicable laws and
legislation.
      (B)   The nearest point of any building constructed on the lot or parcel
which is nearest to the front boundary line.
   "SIDE BOUNDARY LINE." Any boundary line of any lot or parcel of real estate
which is neither a front boundary line nor a rear boundary line.
   "SIDE YARD." Any portion of a lot or parcel of real estate which is within
neither the front yard nor rear yard.
   "TRAVEL TRAILER." The same meaning as that provided in KRS 227.550 (14)(a).
(Ord. 47 (11-11-92), passed 11-11-92)
§ 155.02 LOCATION PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN LOCATIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Within the city and unless otherwise provided, nobody shall cause,
permit, allow, aid, assist, encourage or engage in any parking or other
location of any boat, motor home, travel trailer, camping trailer or any other
trailer within any portion of either:
      (1)   Any front yard; or
      (2)   Any side yard which is not more than one (1) foot from the nearest
point in the nearest side boundary line and paved with either continuous
blacktop or concrete.
   (B)   In the event that the city coordinator determines that the size or
topographical condition of any side yard or rear yard of any lot or parcel of
real estate precludes access by any boat, motor home, travel trailer, camping
trailer or any other trailer which was legally parked or otherwise located in
the front or side yard of the lot or parcel of real estate upon the effective
date of this section, the preexisting and nonconforming parking or other
location of the boat, motor home, travel trailer, camping trailer or any other
trailer, may be continued but not expanded until the time the owner of record
no longer owns any interest in the lot or parcel of real estate.
(Ord. 47 (11-11-92), passed 11-11-92)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   Each violation or failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed a misdemeanor. Each day of continuation shall be a separate and
distinct offense for which:
   (A)   Anybody convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be sentenced to
pay a criminal fine not to exceed the amount set forth in KRS 534.040 (2) (a)
or a term of imprisonment not to exceed the period set forth in KRS 532.090
(1), or both; and
   (B)   The offender shall be subject to a civil penalty of one hundred
($100.00) dollars for each offense, which shall be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of debt if not paid by the offender within thirty
(30) days after citation for the violation or other failure to comply with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 47 (11-11-92), passed 11-11-92)
Editor's Note:
   Most provisions concerning trailers are covered by the city zoning ordinance
which is adopted by reference in
Chapter 156 of this code.
CHAPTER 156: ZONING CODE
Section
   
156.01   Zoning Code adopted by reference
   
156.02   Zoning permit fees
 
   
156.99   Penalty
§ 156.01 ZONING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The zoning code attached to Ordinance 1-11-82, and any subsequent
amendments thereto which are adopted by the city by ordinance, are made a part
hereof by reference, and is made a part of the permanent records of the city,
and are hereby adopted as the official zoning ordinance of the city.
   (B)   The official zoning ordinance of the city shall be available for
public inspection in the offices of the City Clerk/Tax Collector.
(Ord. 1-11-82, passed - -82; Am. Ord. 1-5-83, passed - -83; Am. Ord. 1-6-83,
passed - -83; Am. Ord. 1-11-83, passed - -83; Am. Ord. 2-3-88, passed 4-14-88;
Am. Ord. 5-8-88, passed 8-18-88; Am. Ord. 1-2-89, passed 3-9-89; Am. Ord. 5-3-
89, passed 4-18-89; Am. Ord. 2-9-89, - - ; Am. Ord. 2-10-89B; passed 10-17-89;
Am. Ord. 13(11-14-90), passed 11-14-90; Am. Ord. 17(1-23-91), passed 1-23-91;
Am. Ord. 107(3-26-97), passed 3-26-97; Am. Ord. 114(6-25-97), passed 6-25-97;
Am. Ord. 157(2-9-00), passed 2-9-00; Am. Ord. 171(3-28-01), passed 3-28-01; Am.
Ord. 183(2-27-02), passed 2-27-02; Am. Ord. 186(4-10-02), passed 4-10-02; Am.
Ord. 202(8-13-03), passed 8-13-03; Am. Ord. 221(6-8-05), passed 6-8-05; Am.
Ord. 233(4-12-06), passed 4-12-06; Am. Ord. 234(4-12-06), passed 4-12-06; Am.
Ord. 238(8-9-06), passed 8-9-06; Am. Ord. 241(3-2-07), passed 3-2-07; Am. Ord.
246(7-13-07), passed 7-13-07; Am. Ord. 260(11-12-08), passed 11-12-08; Am. Ord.
277(07-13-11), passed 7-13-11; Am. Ord. 290(05/08/2013), passed 5-8-13; Am.
Ord. 295(04-23-14), passed 4-23-14; Am. Ord. 296(04-23-14), passed 4-23-14; Am.
Ord. 308(10-14-15), passed 10-14-15; Am. Ord. 318(02-15-17), passed 2-15-17;
Am. Ord. 323(8-16-17), passed 8-16-17; Am. Ord. 324(9-13-17), passed 9-13-17;
Am. Ord. 325(9-13-17), passed 9-13-17; Am. Ord. 330(3-14-18), passed 3-14-18;
Am. Ord. 332(5-9-18), passed 5-9-18; Am. Ord. 333(6-13-18), passed 6-13-18; Am.
Ord. 338(10-10-18), passed 10-10-18; Am. Ord. 341(04-10-2019), passed 4-10-19;
Am. Ord. 342(05-08-2019), passed 5-8-19; Am. Ord. 345(05-08-2019), passed 5-8-
19; Am. Ord. 349(08-21-2019), passed 8-21-19; Am. Ord. 351(09-11-19); passed 9-
11-19; Am. Ord. 364(12/09/2020), passed 12-9-20; Am. Ord. 366(04-14-2021),
passed 4-14-21; Am. Ord. 378(05-11-2022), passed 5-11-22; Am. Ord. 403(10-09-
2024), passed 10-9-24)
§ 156.02 ZONING PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   With each application for a zoning permit from the City of Taylor
Mill, the applicant shall cause a fee therefore to be paid to the City of
Taylor Mill, in an amount identified in the zoning permit fee schedule, which
is attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
   (B)   All fees paid to the City of Taylor Mill, with an application for a
building permit or a zoning permit, shall be deposited in the General Fund of
the City of Taylor Mill; and no part thereof shall ever be returned or
refunded, for any reason.
(Ord. 111 (05-28-97), passed 5-28-97; Am. Ord. 227 (8-10-05), passed 8-10-05)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   No person shall cause, permit, assist, encourage, or engage in any
violation of any of the rules, regulations, or permits of the County and
Municipal Planning and Zoning Commission, within the city, or any conditions of
such permits.
   (B)   No person shall cause, permit, assist, encourage, or engage in the use
of any land in the city, or the conduct of any activities thereon, in violation
of any of the rules, regulations, or permits of the County and Municipal
Planning and Zoning Commission, or any conditions of such permits.
   (C)   Any person who violates any terms or provisions of this chapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined no more than $500 or imprisonment as
provided by law, for no more than 90 days, or any combination of such fine and
imprisonment.
(Ord. 3-12-87, passed 12-14-87)
CHAPTER 157: FIRE PREVENTION CODE
Section
   
157.01   Adoption by reference
   
157.02   Fire Chief to enforce
   
157.03   Fees established
   
157.04   Appeals
§ 157.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Kentucky Standards of Safety (Fire Prevention Code) promulgated in 815
Kentucky Administrative Regulations 10:040 are hereby adopted by reference as
if fully set out herein. Copies thereof are available through the city clerk or
the Department of Housing, Buildings and Construction, 1047 U.S. 127 South,
Frankfort, Kentucky 40601.
(Ord. 15 (12-12-90, passed 12-12-90)
§ 157.02 FIRE CHIEF TO ENFORCE.
   The Chief of the Fire Department is hereby designated as the local
enforcement agent for the Kentucky Standards of Safety adopted in §
157.01.
(Ord. 15 (12-12-90), passed 12-12-90)
§ 157.03 FEES ESTABLISHED.
   There shall be no charge for a burning permit fee.
(Ord. 15 (12-12-90), passed 12-12-90)
§ 157.04 APPEALS.
   All final decisions of the Chief of the Fire Department, as the enforcement
agent for the Kentucky Standards of Safety, shall be appealable to a board of
appeals pursuant to procedures adopted by the city.
(Ord. 15 (12-12-90), passed 12-12-90)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   BONDS
      
IV.   FRANCHISES
      
V.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
VI.   VACATIONS
      
VII.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
VIII.   PERSONNEL POLICY AMENDMENTS
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord.  Date     Description
No.
     2-8-73   Lease agreement between the city and the Volunteer Fire Department
1-12- 12-9-76  Agreement between the city of Union Light, Heat, and Power Company for
76             operation of a street lighting system in the city
2-5-  6-11-87  Interlocal cooperation agreement to establish the Kentucky Municipal
87             Risk Management Association
84             Authorizing and directing the participation of the city in an Interlocal
(10-  10-25-95 Agreement for the administration and regulation of Taylor Mill Cable
25-            Television and Telecommunications Franchises
95)
97
(9-   9-25-96  Authorizing the execution of an amendment to the Interlocal Cooperation
25-            Agreement establishing the Telecommunications Board of Northern Kentucky
96)
130            Authorizing the execution of a second amendment to the Interlocal
(2-   2-25-98  Cooperation Agreement expanding the powers of the Telecommunications
25-            Board of Northern Kentucky
98)
361
(08-  8-31-20  Authorizing the city’s participation in the Private Cost-Share Program
31-            offered by Sanitation District No. 1 (SD1)
2020)
368            Adopting an amended interlocal agreement between the Kenton County
(06-  6-9-     Fiscal Court and the Cities of Bromley, Crescent Springs, Crestview
09-   21    Hills, Edgewood, Elsmere, Fort Wright, Independence, Kenton Vale,
2021)          Lakeside Park, Ludlow, Park Hills, Ryland Heights, Taylor Mill and Villa
               Hills for code enforcement in Kenton County, Kentucky
               Approving a lease agreement with the Kentucky Bond Corporation for the
394   6-12-24  financing of a project; providing for the payment of and security for
               the lease; establishing a sinking fund; and authorizing the execution of
               various documents related to the lease
              
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord. No. Date     Description
1-9-63   9-12-63
3-11-63  11-14-63
3-8-64   9-13-64
1-9-64   9-10-64
3-9-64   9-12-64
1-11-64  11-26-64
4-11-64  11-17-64
1-10-65  10-14-65
1-12-65  12-16-65
1-2-67   2-9-67
1-3-67   3-21-67
1-10-68  10-10-68
1-12-68  12-12-68
1-3-71   - -
1-4-71   1-4-71
1-5-71   - -
1-7-71   8-8-71
8-1-73   1-2-73
2-1-77   1-13-77
1-7-77   7-14-77
2-7-77   7-14-77
3-7-77   7-14-77
1-1-88   2-11-88
1-11-88  11-23-88 Declaring intent to annex property lying near Decoursey Pike
 
TABLE III: BONDS
 
Ord. No. Date     Description
         12-10-59 Providing for the issuance and sale of $l,225,000 of
                  waterworks revenue bonds
 
TABLE IV: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord. No.         Date     Description
W.P. 6-1969      - -      Winston Park granting and offering for sale an
                          electric franchise
1-2-65           2-11-65  Granting a gas franchise to the Union Light, Heat,
                          and Power Company for Taylor Mill
W.P. 11-69       12-1-69  Granting a gas franchise to the Union Light, Heat,
                          and Power Company for Winston Park
2-7-63           11-14-63 Granting a telephone franchise to the Citizens
                          Telephone Company for Taylor Mill
W.P. 8-1970      7-7-70   Granting a telephone franchise to Cincinnati Bell
                          Telephone Co., Inc. for Winston Park
1-7-81           8-13-81  Granting an electric franchise
1-2-84           2-14-83  Granting a telephone franchise to Cincinnati Bell
                          Telephone Company
                          Granting and offering for sale a 20-year franchise to
1-10-87          11-12-87 place gas transmission and distribution facilities in
                          public streets and places of the city
129 (2-25-98)    2-25-98  Granting a 12-year cable television franchise to TKR
                          Cable of Northern Kentucky
264 (3-11-09)    3-11-09  Granting a 12-year cable television franchise to
                          Cincinnati Bell Extended Territories, LLC
                          Establishing a non-exclusive franchise for the use of
304 (12-10-2014) 12-10-14 the public streets, alleys and other public grounds
                          for the transmission and distribution of natural gas
                          and/or electricity
305 (04-08-2015) 4-8-15   Granting a 20-year gas and electric franchise to Duke
                          Energy Kentucky, Inc.
                          Establishing for bid a non-exclusive
352 (11-13-19)   11-13-19 telecommunications facilities providing for the
                          transmission, distribution and sale of
                          telecommunications services
                          Awarding a non-exclusive franchise to MCI Metro
                          Access Transmission Services LLC, d/b/a Verison
356 (04-08-2020) 4-8-20   Transmission Services for an initial term of ten
                          years to provide facilities for the transmis-sion,
                          delivery, provision and sale of telecommunications
                          services
                          Granting a competitive, non-exclusive cable
374              11-10-21 television franchise for a combined term of ten years
                          to Cincinnati Bell Extended Territories LLC
                          Granting a competitive, non-exclusive cable
389(09-13-23)    9-13-23  television franchise for a combined term of ten years
                          to Spectrum Mid-America
                         
 
TABLE V: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord. No.       Date    Description
2-2-81         3-12-81 Authorizing the purchase of lots 28 and 29 of Oakwood
                       Manor Subdivision from Kenton County
                       Transferring two parcels of land to the City of
281 (08-17-11) 8-17-11 Covington; including within the city two parcels of land
                       transferred from the City of Covington
331(3-14-18)   3-4-18  Transferring two parcels of land from the City of
                       Covington
                      
 
TABLE VI: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord. No.         Date      Description
1-5-79           5-10-79   Closing a portion of Vincent Drive; a portion of
                           Bonnie Drive; and a portion of Anthony Court
1-7-89           7-17-89   Closing portions of Bob White Circle and Western
                           Drive
                           Amends Ord. 1-7-89 by reopening Western Drive and
2 (5-10-90)      5-10-90   certain portions of Bob White Drive and closing
                           portions of Bob White Drive along certain lots in
                           Oakwood Manor Subdivision
10 (9-26-90)     9-26-90   Closing portions of Bob White Circle and Western
                           Drive
16 (12-26-90)    12-26-90  Closing all of a portion Bob White Circle along lot
                           40 of Oakwood Manor Subdivision
26 (8-28-91)     8-28-91   Closing all of the remaining portions of Bob White
                           Circle and Western Drive
41 (8-12-92)     8-12-92   Closing all of Tennis Place between Parkview and
                           Grand Avenue
                           Closing all of Rockdale Court, and a portion of
57 (9-22-93)     9-22-93   Western Place excepting any utility easements which
                           shall remain open for use
                           Closing to public use the north- westerly end of
76 (4-26-95)     4-26-95   Western Drive which extends northwesterly past the
                           northwest right-of-way line of Knollwood Lane.
                           Closing to public use an unnamed 10 foot wide alley
                           which extends South from the Easterly right-of-way
127 (10-8-97)    10-8-97   line of Droegge Ave. between lots numbered 24
                           through 37 of A. Baker's Subdivision of South
                           Covington Land Company's Subdivision.
151 (6-9-99)     6-9-99    Closing to public use Schneider Street which is
                           between Huntington Avenue and the Licking River.
156 (10-27-99)   10-27-99  Closing a portion of Valley View Lane.
172 (4-25-01)    4-25-01   Closing a portion of Sandra Drive.
178 (9-12-01)    9-12-01   Closing two sections of Vincent Drive.
195 (1-22-03)    1-22-03   Closing a portion of Towerview Drive.
259 (10-8-08)    10-8-08   Closing a portion of Droege Avenue.
298 (06-11-2014) 6-11-2014 Closing a portion of Ivybrook Drive.
 
TABLE VII: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord.  Date Description
No.
2-3-  3-
79    15-  Rezoning three parcels of land.
      79
            (1)   A parcel of land lying adjacent to the present NSC Zone on the westerly
           side of Taylor Mill Road near Leland Drive rezoned from R-1-C to NSC
            (2)   A parcel of land lying adjacent to the northerly side of Whitaker
           Subdivision (Sunset Drive) rezoned from NSC to R-1D1
            (3)   A parcel of land lying adjacent to the northerly side of Whitaker
           Subdivision (Sunset Drive) rezoned from R-1C to R-1D1
2-7-  7-   Rezoning lots 12, 13, 14, and 15 of Block A of the Forest Hills Subdivision from
80    10-  R-1-D to NC
      80
2-10- - -  Rezoning a 5-acre tract of land lying on the east side of Taylor Mill Road, Ky.
80         Rte. 16, generally opposite Lone Oak Drive from R1-C to PO
3-10-      Certain property, beginning at a point in the easterly line of Ky. Hwy. 16
80    - -  approximately 120 feet south of the center of Ridgeway Drive, rezoned from R1-
           C to PO
2-9-  - -  Rezoning certain property beginning at the west corner of lot 14 of John P.
84         Winston Subdivision No. 2, from R-2 to R-1C
2-3-  4-   Rezoning an approximate 10 acre site south of Taylor Mill Road from R-1E to R-2,
89    13-  and rezoning an approximate 23 acre site from R-2 to NSC.
      89
1-6-  6-
89    20-  Rezoning an approximate 2 acre site south of Taylor Mill Road from R-1C to NSC.
      89
2-8-  7-   Rezoning 19.48 acres located in Oakwood Manor Subdivision from R-1C and R-1D to
89    14-  R-1D1.
      89
1-9-  10-
89    12-  Rezoning annexed territory near Decoursey Pike as follows:
      89
            Parcel A: From C-O to A-1
            Parcel B: From C-O to 1-4
            Parcel C: From C-O to R-1F.
56    8-
(8-   25-  Rezoning an approximate 8.56 acre tract located on the northwestern side of
25-   93   Taylor Mill Road from NSC to R-2.
93)
173A  6-
(6-   13-  Rezoning an approximate 9 acre area located along the western side of Decoursey
13-   01   Pike, south of Locust Pike and east of Manor Hill Drive from I-4 to R-1.
01)
230   1-   Rezoning an approximate 13 acre area generally located approximately 500 feet
(1-   11-  north of Holdsbranch Road and approximately 2,000 feet southeast of Madison Pike
11-   06   from R-1E to R-1E(PUD); and 3 areas located generally on Holdsbranch Road from
06)        R-1C to R- 1D(PUD).
245   7-
(7-   13-  Rezoning an approximate 4 acre area generally located approximately 300 feet
13-   07   northwest of the end of the pavement of Red Bud Drive from R-2 to R1-C.
07)
247   7-
(7-   13-  Rezoning an approximate 266 acre area generally located at the southeast and
13-   07   southwest quadrants of the I-275/Taylor Mill Road interchange as follows:
07)
            Area A: From R-21C, R-2, and NSC to DTM-1
            Area B: From R-1E and R-2 to DTM-2
            Area C: From R-1C to DTM-3
            Area D: From R-1E and R-2 to DTM-4
            Area E: From R-1E to R-1A, and R-2 to DTM-4.
252   3-   Rezoning an approximate 13 acre area generally located on the east side of
(3-   12-  Taylor Mill Road, between Ridgeway Drive and Wolf Road, approximately 600 feet
12-   08   south of Ridgeway Avenue from R-1C to R-RE.
08)
253   4-9- Rezoning an approximate 23 acre area generally located at the northeast corner
(4-9- 08   of the intersection of Taylor Mill Road with Mason Road from R-1B to R-1D.
08)
257   9-   Rezoning an approximate 0.5 acre area generally located along the east side of
(9-   10-  Taylor Mill Road, approximately 150 feet north of Ridgeway Avenue, from R-1C to
10-   08   NC.
08)
276
(6-   6-8- Rezoning an approximate 0.39 acre parcel known as 729 Mill Valley Drive, from
08-   11   NSC to R-1D1.
2011)
312   5-
(5-   23-  Rezoning an approximate 6.8 acre parcel known as 5136 Old Taylor Mill Road, from
23-   16   DTM-1 and R-1C to R-2.
2016)
326
(11-  11-  Rezoning an approximate 53 acre area located approximately 1,500 feet south of
8-    8-17 Holdsbranch Road and 4,500 east of Madison Pike from RS-7.5 and R-1C to R-1D.
2017)
367   5-
(05-  12-  Rezoning an approximate 9.21 acre parcel known as 5433 Old Taylor Mill Road,
12-   21   from R-1C to R-1C PUD.
2021)
370   5-
(05-  11-  Repealing the current zoning code and zoning map and replacing with an updated
11-   22   zoning code and zoning map known as Z21.
2022)
          
 
TABLE VIII: PERSONNEL POLICY AMENDMENTS
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord.  Date Description
No.
40    8-
(8-   12-  Amending health insurance provisions
12-   92
92)
46    10-
(10-  28-  Adopting a plan for longevity pay for each full time worker employed for
28-   92   five or more continuous years
92)
49    1-   Amending: Holiday designations and providing specifically for holiday
(11-  27-  pay for police officers, vacation leave provisions, and sick leave
27-   93   provisions
93)
50    5-
(5-   26-  Amending provisions relating to health insurance benefits
26-   93
93)
53    7-   Repeals the position of city coordinator and establishes city
(7-   28-  administrative officer as set out in §
28-   93   31.38
93)
61    2-
(2-   23-  Fixing compensation in accordance with the personnel and pay
23-   94   classification plan
94)
63    4-   Amending provisions relating to personnel officer designation,
(4-   27-  disabilities, work week, compensation, attendance and leave in certain
27-   94   departments, holidays and vacation leave accrual
94)
75    2-8- Amending provisions relating to the benefits provided by the city in the
(2-8- 95   event of temporary total disability of a worker of the city
95)
80    6-
(6-   14-  Fixing compensation in accordance with the personnel and pay
14-   95   classification plan
95)
81    6-   Amending provisions relating to keeping the administrative offices open
(6-   14-  continuously from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. prevailing time each day of the
14-   95   week other than Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays
95)
82    8-9- Amending the provisions of the personnel policies regarding unusual
(8-9- 95   circumstances requiring temporary and specific exceptions
95)
82A        Amending provisions by allowing ½ day of vacation for each month during
(10-  10-  probationary periods, vacation accumulated for workers of one, five,
11-   11-  ten, fifteen, and twenty years, establishing sick leave policy, and
95)   95   adding funeral leave for brother-in- laws, sisters-in-law, grandparents,
           and grandchildren
88    4-
(4-   24-  Amending provisions relating to disability leave
24-   96
96)
89    4-   Adding a new chapter to the personnel policies, establishing standards
(4-   24-  of conduct for every officer and employee of the city and every city
24-   96   agency
96)
90    4-
(4-   24-  Amending provisions relating to nepotism
24-   96
96)
95    9-
(9-   25-  Amending provisions relating to employee expense reimbursement by
25-   96   allowing a $30 daily meal expense for a full day and $15 for half a day
96)
105   3-
(3-   12-  Amending provisions relating to the accumulation of sick leave with pay
12-   97
97)
118   8-
(8-   13-  Amending the schedule of longevity compensation for workers with 5 or
13-   97   more years of employment
97)
135   6-   Amending the policy on lay-offs, removing seniority and all other
(6-   15-  factors as considerations in determining whether or not they occur to
15-   98   workers
98)
263   3-
(3-   11-  Amending provisions of the personnel policies regarding longevity
11-   09   compensation
09)
329   1-
(1-   10-  Amending the personnel pay and classification plan to provide for
10-   18   employee bonuses and extra pay
18)
339   2-6- Amending the personnel pay and classification plan to increase
(2-6- 19   compensation of City Clerk/Tax Collector
19)
376
(03-  3-9- Adopting a new pay/wage plan for all job descriptions and titles
09-   22
2022)
386   6-
(06-  28-  Amending the personnel and pay classification plan to set forth the job
28-   23   title and pay scale for each employment position of the city
23)
          
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to 1978 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section             Code Section
Section 43, Ky. Const.  32.47
Section 157, Ky. Const. 33.03(H)(2)
Section 165, Ky. Const. 39.12
Section 181, Ky, Const. 110.01
Section 228, Ky. Const. 31.01(A),
                        31.37(C)
Section 246, Ky. Const. 31.02(A)
6.050                   32.47
6.995-6.975             33.04 (C)
Ch. 13B                 95.06
18A.225                 114.01
Ch. 31                  34.12
39A.020                 Ch. 130,
                        132.02
41.240(4)               33.05
42.450 - 42.495         33.04(B)
Ch. 45A                 34.12,
                        34A.05
Ch. 56                  34.12,
                        34A.05
Ch. 61                  32.21
61.080                  39.12
61.090                  39.12
61.168                  34.12
61.169                  34.12
61.252                  39.11
61.805(1)               34A.01
61.805(2)               34.01,
                        34A.01
61.805(3)               34A.01
61.805(4)               34A.01
61.805(5)               34A.01
61.805 - 61.850         34A.09,
                        34A.05,
61.810                  39.12,
                        39.65
61.815                  34A.06,
                        39.12,
61.820                  34A.07
61.823                  34A.08
61.823 (2) - (4)        94.15
61.823(4)               34A.09
61.826                  34A.09
61.840                  34A.09
61.870                  34.01
                        34.05,
61.870-61.884           39.69,
                        118.06
61.870(1)(h)            34.01
61.872-61.884           39.18
61.874(1)               34.08
61.874(2)               34.08
61.874(3)               34.08,
                        34.09
61.874(4)               34.09
61.874(5)               34.10
61.874(6)               34.11
61.876                  34.13
                        34.01,
61.878                  34.12,
                        118.06
61.878(1)(m)            34A.05
61.880(1)               34.12
61.884                  34.07
62.020                  31.01(B)
65.003                  39.03
65.067                  31.01(C)
65.120                  Ch. 72
65.210 et seq.          39.60
65.870                  Ch. 136
65.8805                 121.02
65.8808                 42.01
                        42.06,
65.8808(2)(b)1.         71.99(C)(2)(a),
                        110.99,
                        120.99
                        42.06,
65.8808(2)(b)2.         71.99(C)(2)(b),
                        110.99,
                        120.99
65.8808(3)              42.06
65.882                  42.02
65.8825(2)              42.07
65.8828(4)              42.08
66.660                  94.06
67.750 - 67.795         110.04
67.753                  110.04
67.753(2), (3)          110.04
67.753(4)               110.04
82.082                  39.03,
                        110.01
82.600 - 82.640         72.99
82.600(2)               72.50
82.600(3)               42.06,
                        72.99
82.605                  72.99
82.610                  72.51
82.625                  72.22
83.020                  98.01
Ch. 83A                 31.20
83A.010(3)              10.02
83A.010(6)              10.02
83A.010(7)              10.02
83A.010(8)              10.02
83A.010(9)              10.02
83A.010(10)             10.02
83A.030(2)              30.02(B)
83A.040(1),(2)          31.21
83A.040(2)(c), (d)      31.21
83A.040(3)              31.21
83A.040(4),(5)          32.01
83A.040(6)              31.21,
                        32.02
83A.040(7)              31.21,
                        32.02
83A.040(8)              31.21,
                        32.02
83A.040(9)              31.03
83A.050                 31.20
83A.060(1)              32.35
83A.060(2)              32.36
                        32.37,
83A.060(3)              150.26,
                        153.01
83A.060(4),(7)          32.38
                        Adopting Ordinance,
83A.060(5)              32.39,
                        153.01
83A.060(6)              32.22
83A.060(8)              32.40,
                        32.41
83A.060(9)              Adopting Ordinance,
                        32.42
83A.060(10)             32.43
83A.060(11)             32.44
83A.060(12),(13)        32.45
83A.060(14)             32.46
83A.060(15)             32.47
83A.065                 10.02
83A.070                 31.02
83A.075                 31.02
83A.080                 31.37(B),
                        39.04
83A.080(1)              31.35
83A.080(2)              31.03,
                        31.35
83A.080(3)              31.20
83A.080(4)              31.20
83A.085                 31.36
83A.085(3)              34.05
83A.140                 30.01
83A.140(2)              30.02(A)
83A.140(3)              32.03(A)
83A.140(4)              31.21(D), (E),
                        32.20
83A.140(5)              32.03(B)
                        32.04,
83A.140(6)              35.01,
                        94.55
83A.140(7)              32.21
83A.140(8)              32.03(C), (D), (E)
91A.010                 33.01
91A.010(6)              33.01
91A.010(7)              33.01
91A.010(8)              10.02
91A.020                 33.02
91A.030                 33.03
91A.040                 33.04
91A.041                 33.04(G)
91A.050                 33.04
91A.060                 33.05
91A.080                 114.01
91A.090(12)             114.01
91A.200                 33.11(A)
91A.210                 33.10
91A.220                 33.11
91A.230                 33.12
91A.240                 33.13
91A.250                 33.14
91A.260                 33.15
91A.270                 33.16
91A.280                 33.17
91A.290                 33.18
92.280                  110.01
92.281                  110.01,
                        114.01
95.445                  35.18(A)
95.710                  35.16
96.010                  119.06
96.070                  119.06
96.910 et seq.          51.15
97.020                  98.01
97.550                  35.43(B)
97.560                  35.43(B)
97.570                  35.43(B)
97.580                  35.43(B)
97.600                  35.43(B)
Ch. 100                 94.56
Chs. 116-121            31.20(A)
131.010(6)              114.05,
                        119.05
131.190                 34.12
Ch. 136                 116.01,
                        116.02
151.250                 152.04
Ch. 154                 34.12
174.100                 94.15
174.100(1)              94.16,
                        94.17
174.100(2)              94.17
174.100(3)              94.18
174.100(4)              94.19
174.100(5)              94.20
178.290                 94.06
186.042                 70.08
189.010                 93.03
189.020                 71.27
189.285                 73.02
189.287                 73.01
189.330(8)              71.02
189.338                 70.15
189.394                 71.05(C)
189.450(5) - (7)        72.03
189.456                 70.08
189.580                 71.15
189.930                 71.26
189.993(8)              71.99(B)
Ch. 198B                150.25
198B.990(1)             150.99
Ch. 218                 118.10
Ch. 218A                133.02
218A.500                133.02
218B.010                122.01
218B.130                122.01
219.320(8)              71.71(A)
220.510                 53.30
226.010 - 226.990       120.03
226.010                 112.01
226.020                 112.02
226.030                 112.07
226.040                 112.03(A)
226.050                 112.04
226.060                 112.08
226.070                 112.03(B)
226.080                 112.05
226.090                 112.06
226.100                 112.08
226.990(1)              112.99
227.50(14)              155.01
227.700                 95.01(A)
227.702                 95.01(B)
227.704                 95.01(C)
227.706                 95.01(D)
227.708                 95.01(E)
227.710                 95.02
227.715                 95.03
227.715(6)-(8)          95.03
227.720                 95.04
227.730                 95.05
227.740                 95.05
227.750                 95.06
227.990(1)              150.99
227.990(4)              95.99(A)
241.010                 111.02,
                        111.11
241.030                 111.02
241.160                 31.38,
                        111.02
243.010                 111.02
243.070                 111.05
243.390                 111.04
243.400                 111.03
243.680                 111.02
244.290                 111.08
244.480                 111.08
304.17B-005             114.01
318.990                 150.99
Ch. 321                 118.08
381.220                 93.09(F)
383.505 - 383.715       91.01
                        Adopting Ordinance,
Ch. 424                 32.42(A),
                        33.04,
                        33.15
424.190(2)              33.04
424.220                 33.04
446.010(1)              10.02
446.010(2)              10.02
446.010(9)              10.02
446.010(10)             10.02
446.010(12)             10.02
446.010(13)             10.02
446.010(14)             10.02
446.010(15)             10.02
446.010(17)             10.02
446.010(18)             10.02
446.010(23)             10.02
446.010(25)             10.02
446.010(26)             10.02
446.010(27)             10.02
446.010(28)             10.02
446.010(30)             10.02
446.010(31)             10.02,
                        72.20
446.010(33)             10.02
446.010(37)             10.02
446.010(39)             10.02
446.010(43)             10.02
446.010(46)             10.02
446.010(47)             10.02
446.010(49)             10.02
446.020(1)              10.03(A)
446.020(2)              10.03(B)
446.030                 10.04
446.050                 10.05
446.060                 10.06
446.080(1)              10.03(C)
446.080(3)              10.03(D)
446.080(4)              10.03(E)
446.090                 10.07
446.100                 10.08
446.110                 10.09
446.140                 10.01
506.010                 Ch. 138
506.030                 Ch. 138
506.040                 Ch. 138
506.080                 Ch. 138
506.120                 Ch. 138
507.020                 Ch. 130
507.030                 Ch. 130
507.040                 Ch. 130
507.050                 Ch. 130
508.010                 Ch. 130
508.020                 Ch. 130
508.025                 Ch. 130
508.030                 Ch. 130
508.040                 Ch. 130
508.050                 Ch. 130
508.060                 Ch. 130
508.070                 Ch. 130
508.080                 Ch. 130
508.100                 Ch. 130
508.110                 Ch. 130
508.120                 Ch. 130
509.020                 Ch. 130
509.030                 Ch. 130
509.040                 Ch. 130
509.070                 Ch. 130
509.080                 Ch. 130
510.040                 Ch. 137
510.050                 Ch. 137
510.060                 Ch. 137
510.070                 Ch. 137
510.080                 Ch. 137
510.090                 Ch. 137
510.100                 Ch. 137
510.110                 Ch. 137
510.120                 Ch. 137
510.130                 Ch. 137
510.140                 Ch. 137
510.150                 133.01,
                        Ch. 137
511.020                 Ch. 132
511.030                 Ch. 132
511.040                 Ch. 132
511.050                 Ch. 132
511.060                 Ch. 132
511.070                 Ch. 132
511.080                 Ch. 132
512.020                 Ch. 132
512.030                 Ch. 132
512.050                 Ch. 132
512.060                 Ch. 132
512.070                 Ch. 132
512.080                 Ch. 132
513.020                 Ch. 132
513.030                 Ch. 132
513.040                 Ch. 132
513.060                 Ch. 132
514.030                 Ch. 132
514.040                 Ch. 132
514.050                 Ch. 132
514.060                 Ch. 132
514.065                 Ch. 132
514.070                 Ch. 132
514.080                 Ch. 132
514.090                 Ch. 132
514.100                 Ch. 132
514.110                 Ch. 132
514.120                 Ch. 132
514.140                 Ch. 132
514.150                 Ch. 132
515.020                 Ch. 132
515.030                 Ch. 132
516.020                 Ch. 132
516.030                 Ch. 132
516.040                 Ch. 132
516.050                 Ch. 132
516.060                 Ch. 132
516.070                 Ch. 132
516.090                 Ch. 132
516.110                 Ch. 132
516.120                 Ch. 132
516.130                 Ch. 132
519.020                 Ch. 135
519.030                 Ch. 135
519.040                 Ch. 135
519.050                 Ch. 135
519.060                 Ch. 135
520.020                 Ch. 135
520.030                 Ch. 135
520.040                 Ch. 135
520.050                 Ch. 135
520.060                 Ch. 135
520.070                 Ch. 135
520.080                 Ch. 135
520.090                 Ch. 135
520.100                 Ch. 135
520.120                 Ch. 135
520.130                 Ch. 135
521.020                 Ch. 135
521.030                 Ch. 135
521.040                 Ch. 135
522.020                 Ch. 135
522.030                 Ch. 135
522.040                 Ch. 135
523.020                 Ch. 135
523.030                 Ch. 135,
                        118.07
523.040                 Ch. 135
523.100                 Ch. 135
524.020                 Ch. 135
524.030                 Ch. 135
524.040                 Ch. 135
524.045                 Ch. 135
524.050                 Ch. 135
524.060                 Ch. 135
524.070                 Ch. 135
524.080                 Ch. 135
524.090                 Ch. 135
524.100                 Ch. 135
524.110                 Ch. 135
524.120                 Ch. 135
524.130                 Ch. 135
525.020                 Ch. 136
525.030                 Ch. 136
525.040                 Ch. 136
525.050                 Ch. 136
525.060                 Ch. 136
525.070                 Ch. 136
525.080                 Ch. 136
525.090                 Ch. 136
525.100                 Ch. 136
525.105                 Ch. 136
525.110                 Ch. 136
525.120                 Ch. 136
525.125                 Ch. 136
525.130                 Ch.136
525.140                 Ch. 136
525.150                 Ch. 136
525.160                 Ch. 136
526.020                 Ch. 136
526.030                 Ch. 136
526.040                 Ch. 136
526.050                 Ch. 136
526.060                 Ch. 136
527.020                 35.17
528.020                 Ch. 134
528.030                 Ch. 134
528.040                 Ch. 134
528.050                 Ch. 134
528.060                 Ch. 134
528.070                 Ch. 134
528.080                 Ch. 134
528.110                 Ch. 134
528.120                 Ch. 134
529.020                 Ch. 133
529.030                 Ch. 133
529.040                 Ch. 133
529.050                 Ch. 133
529.070                 Ch. 133
529.080                 Ch. 133
530.010                 Ch. 131
530.020                 Ch. 131
530.030                 Ch. 131
530.040                 Ch. 131
530.050                 Ch. 131
530.060                 Ch. 131
530.064                 Ch. 131
530.065                 Ch. 131
530.070                 Ch. 131
530.080                 Ch. 131
531.020                 Ch. 133
531.030                 Ch. 133
531.040                 Ch. 133
531.050                 Ch. 133
531.060                 Ch. 133
531.310                 Ch. 133
531.320                 Ch. 133
531.340                 Ch. 133
531.350                 Ch. 133
531.360                 Ch. 133
531.370                 Ch. 133
532.060                 139.04
532.090                 139.02
                        10.02,
                        41.99,
                        53.99,
                        70.99(B)(1),
                        71.99(C)(1),
                        72.99(C)(1),
                        93.99,
532.090(1)              94.36,
                        98.99,
                        110.99,
                        115.99,
                        117.99,
                        118.99,
                        120.99,
                        153.99
534.030                 139.03
534.040                 139.01
                        10.02,
                        53.99,
534.040(2)(a)           94.36,
                        117.99,
                        118.99
534.040(2)(b)           72.99
534.040(2)(c)           10.02
534.050(2)              71.99(C)(1)
                        41.99,
                        70.99(B)(1),
                        93.99,
534.050(2)(a)           98.99,
                        110.99,
                        115.99,
                        120.99,
                        153.99
534.050(2)(c)           70.99(C),
                        71.99(D)
                        
 
REFERENCES TO 1978 CODE
'78 CODE SECTION CODE SECTION
'78 CODE SECTION CODE SECTION
020.4            10.19
110.1            11.01
130.2, §II(c)   31.36(D), (E)
220.1, §I       38.01
   §II       38.02
   §III      38.03
   §IV       38.04
   §V        38.05
   §VI       38.06
460.1, §I       113.01
   §II       113.02
   §III      113.02(B)
   §IV       113.03
   §V        113.99
520.3, §I       71.70
520.5, §II      71.26
   §III      71.26
   §IV(a)    70.04(B)
   §IV(b)    72.13
530.1, §I(a)    70.06
   §III(b)   71.05(B),
                 Ch. 74, Sch. I
540.1, §I       72.03
570.1, §I       70.55
   §II       70.56
   §III      72.51
570.2, §II      72.22
Schedule I       Ch. 74, Sch. II
621.2, §I       94.15
621.3, §I       94.01
   §II       94.03
720.1, §II      154.01
   §III      154.01,
                 154.02
   §IV       154.99
810.2, §II      50.01,
                 50.02(A)
   §III      50.03
   §IV       50.02(A)
   §VI       50.04
   §VII      50.05,
                 50.99(A)
940.2, §VII     150.03(A)
   §VIII     150.03(B)
   §IX       150.03(D)
940.3 §II       150.04(A)
   §IV       150.04(B)
1010.1, §I(g)   133.01
    §I(I)    136.02
    §IV(a)   132.01
1010.3, §I(a)   133.03(A)
    §I(b)    133.03(B)
    §II      133.03(C)
    §III     133.03(D)
    §III(c)  133.03(A)
    §IV      133.03(E)
    §V       133.99(C)
1020.1, §III    93.03(C)
    §VII     93.03(D)
    §XIII    93.05
                 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
ORD. NO. DATE CODE SECTION
ORD. NO.     DATE     CODE SECTION
13-1934      3-5-34   133.01
W.P. 17-1934 7-2-34   132.01
W.P. 10-1948 5-3-48   94.34
50-1952      5-7-52   136.02
53           - -53    T.S.O. II
            12-10-59 T.S.O. III
33-1960      2-11-60  150.03
35-1960      4-28-60  93.03(C), (D),
                      94.34(C)
                      154.01,
37-1960      - -60    154.02,
                      154.99
1-9-63       9-12-63  T.S.O. II
W.P. 7-1963  11-5-63  150.04
2-7-63       11-14-63 T.S.O. IV
3-11-63      11-14-63 T.S.O. II
W.P. 2-1964  3-4-64   51.06
W.P. 2-1964  - -64    93.05
3-8-64       9-13-64  T.S.O. II
1-9-64       9-10-64  T.S.O. II
3-9-64       9-12-64  T.S.O. II
1-11-64      11-26-64 T.S.O. II
4-11-64      11-17-64 T.S.O. II
1-2-65       2-11-65  T.S.O. IV
1-10-65      10-14-65 T.S.O. II
1-12-65      12-16-65 T.S.O. II
W.P. 1-1967  1-3-67   93.05
1-2-67       2-9-67   T.S.O. II
1-3-67       3-21-67  T.S.O. II
1-10-68      10-10-68 T.S.O. II
1-12-68      12-12-68 T.S.O. II
1-5-69       5-8-69   133.03,
                      133.99(C)
W.P. 6-1969          T.S.O. IV
W.P. 11-69   12-1-69  T.S.O. IV
1-3-70       3-12-70  35.16
W.P. 8-1970  7-7-70   T.S.O. IV
1-3-71               T.S.O. II
1-4-71       1-4-71   T.S.O. II
1-5-71               T.S.O. II
1-7-71       8-8-71   T.S.O. II
8-1-73       1-2-73   T.S.O. II
10-1-73      1-11-73  31.36(D)
                      50.02,
1-7-73       - -73    50.03,
                      50.05,
                      50.99(A)
            2-8-73   T.S.O. I
2-7-74       7-11-74  [Rescinded]
2-10-75      - -75    [Rescinded]
1-11-75      - -75    [Rescinded]
1-12-76      12-9-76  T.S.O. I
2-1-77       1-13-77  T.S.O. II
1-7-77       7-14-77  T.S.O. II
2-7-77       7-14-77  T.S.O. II
3-7-77       7-14-77  T.S.O. II
                      113.01 -
1-9-77       9-9-76   113.03,
                      113.99
Res. 2-10-77 10-13-77 Ch. 38
                      114.01 -
1-4-78       4-13-78  114.03,
                      114.06,
                      114.99
3-2-79       2-8-79   72.35 -
                      72.39
2-3-79       3-15-79  T.S.O. VII
1-4-79       4-12-79  [Rescinded]
1-5-79       5-10-79  T.S.O. VI
1-7-79       7-12-79  72.15
2-10-79      10-11-79 133.02,
                      133.99(B)
3-10-79      10-11-79 35.43(B)
3-4-80       4-10-80  [Rescinded]
4-4-80       4-10-80  50.03
                      51.01 -
                      51.05,
1-7-80       7-10-80  51.15 -
                      51.22,
                      51.99
2-7-80       7-10-80  T.S.O. VII
2-10-80              T.S.O. VII
3-10-80              T.S.O. VII
2-2-81       3-12-81  T.S.O. V
1-7-81       8-13-81  T.S.O. IV
2-7-81       8-13-81  52.01
5-2-82       3-11-82  31.37
6-2-82       3-11-82  31.36(F)
1-3-82       3- -82   35.43(B)
2-3-82       4-8-82   35.17
1-7-82       - -82    150.03(C),
                      156.02
1-9-82       - -82    151.01
1-10-82      - -82    136.01,
                      136.99(B)
1-11-82      - -82    156.01
1-2-83               153.01
1-3-83       - -83    71.71
                      72.20,
2-3-83       - -83    72.21,
                      72.23
1-4-83       5-26-83  51.18
1-5-83       - -83    156.01
1-6-83       - -83    156.01
1-7-83       - -83    91.01,
                      91.02
72-83        7-19-83  Ch. 37
1-11-83      - -83    156.01
1-2-84       2-14-83  T.S.O. IV
2-2-84       - -84    32.20(A)
                      72.20,
1-3-84       - -84    72.21,
                      72.23
Res. 2-5-84  5-10-84  30.01
2-5-84       - -84    35.18
3-5-84       - -84    [Rescinded]
                      111.01 -
1-7-84       - -84    111.10,
                      111.99
1-9-84       - -84    72.14
2-9-84               T.S.O. VII
1-11-84      - -84    [Rescinded]
2-2-85       - -85    30.03
                      72.03(H), (I),
1-6-85       - -85    Ch. 74, Sch. III,
                      Ch. 75, Sch. I
2-6-85       - -85    111.05
1-7-85       9-12-85  51.16
                      35.01 -
                      35.03,
                      35.15,
1-1-86       - -86    35.30,
                      35.40 -
                      35.43(A),
                      35.44,
                      35.45
2-1-86       2-13-86  72.50,
                      72.99
1-2-86       3-13-86  Ch. 74, Sch. II
1-7-86       7-21-86  114.04
1-9-86       - -      50.03
2-9-86       - -      Ch. 36
                      95.30 -
1-1-87       2-12-87  95.35,
                      95.99(B)
2-3-87       - -87    95.32
1-5-87       - -87    150.03(C)
2-5-87       6-11-87  T.S.O. I
2-6-87       7-9-87   50.03
1-8-87       8-25-87  [Rescinded]
1-10-87      11-12-87 T.S.O. IV
3-12-87      12-14-87 156.99
1-1-88       2-11-88  T.S.O. II
1-3-88       4-14-88  Adopting Ordinance
                      114.01,
1-5-88       6-20-88  114.03,
                      114.04
1-8-88       9-8-88   Ch. 75, Sch. I
1-9-88       9-12-88  Not Included
1-11-88      11-23-88 T.S.O. II
1-12-88      12-8-88  Already Included
1-12-88      1-12-88  [Rescinded]
2-3-88       4-14-88  156.01
2-4-88       5-12-88  94.55 -
                      94.60
2-6-88       6-20-88  156.02
2-8-88       8-18-88  Ch. 74, Sch. II
3-8-88       8-18-88  Ch. 75, Sch. I
5-8-88       8-18-88  156.01
6-8-88       8-18-88  51.15,
                      51.16
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description Code Section
Ord. No.         Date Passed Description                     Code Section
1-2-89           3-9-89      Amending zoning regulations     156.01
                                                             53.01 -
3-3-89           3-9-89      Water distribution system       53.06,
                             regulations                     53.15 -
                                                             53.23
2-3-89           4-13-89     Rezoning 10 acre site-Taylor    T.S.O. VII
                             Mill Rd.
4-3-89           4-13-89     Setting penalty for violation   150.03(E)
                             of fee
5-3-89           4-18-89     Amending zoning regulations     156.01
1-6-89           6-20-89     Rezoning 2 acre tract           T.S.O. VII
2-6-89           7-1-89      Annual budget for FY 89-90      Not included
1-8-89           7-14-89     Ad valorem taxation             Not included
2-8-89           7-14-89     Rezoning 19.48 acres - Oakwood  T.S.O. VII
                             Manor
1-7-89           7-17-89     Closing portions of Bob White   T.S.O. VI
                             Circle and Western Dr.
2-9-89           --          Amending zoning regulations     156.01
3-9-89           9-19-89     Stop signs                      Ch. 74, Sch. II
1-9-89           10-12-89    Rezoning newly annexed          T.S.O. VII
                             territory
1-10-89          10-17-89    Establishing position of city   Not included
                             coordinator
2-10-89A         --          Amending 88-89 budget           Not included
2-10-89B         10-17-89    Amending zoning regulations     156.01
3-10-89          10-17-89    Amending occupational license   [Rescinded]
1-12-89          12-27-89    Amending 89-90 budget           Not included
1(1-3-90)        3-8-90      Weeds, grass along street       93.08
                             portions of streets
3(5-10-90)       5-10-90     Establishes motor vehicle       [Rescinded]
                             license requirements
5(6-14-90)       6-14-90     Adopting annual budget FY 90-91 Not included
6(6-27-90)       6-27-90     Establishing regular commission 32.21(A)
                             meetings
7(6-27-90)       6-27-90     Amending building permit fees   150.03(C)
8(6-27-90)       6-27-90     Stop sign on Coachway Court     Ch. 73, Sch. II
9(9-26-90)       6-26-90     Amending garbage rates          50.03
10(9-26-90)      9-26-90     Closing portions - Bob White    T.S.O. VI
                             Cr. and Western Dr.
11(9-26-90)      9-26-90     Ad valorem taxation             Not included
12(11-14-90)     11-14-90    Amending zoning regulations     156.01
13(11-14-90)     11-14-90    Stop sign - Winona Drive        Ch. 73, Sch. II
14(12-12-90)     12-12-90    Establishing off street parking Not included
15(12-12-90)     12-12-90    Adopting Ky. Standards of       157.01 -
                             safety (fire prevention)        157.04
16(12-26-90)     12-26-90    Closing all of Bob White Cr.    T.S.O. VI
17(1-23-91)      1-23-91     Amending zoning regulations     156.01
18(2-27-91)      2-27-91     Bicycles, skates, skateboards   73.05
                             prohibited
19(2-27-91)      2-27-91     Inoperable motor vehicles       94.35,
                             prohibited - public ways        94.99(B)
20(3-13-91)      3-13-91     Amending annual budget          Not included
21(6-12-91)      6-12-91     Parking prohibited in certain   Ch. 75, Sch. I,
                             locations                       72.99(B)
22(6-26-91)      6-26-91     Amending annual budget FY 90-91 Not included
23(6-26-91)      6-26-91     Adopting 91-92 annual budget    Not included
24(7-10-91)      7-10-91     Authorizing participation in    37.02
                             retirement system
25(8-14-91)      8-14-91     Amending CERS participation     37.02
                             ord.
26(8-28-91)      8-28-91     Closing all of Bob White Cr.    T.S.O. VI
                             and Western Dr.
27(9-11-91)      9-11-91     Ad valorem taxation             Not included
28(9-11-91)      9-11-91     Parking prohibition             Ch. 75, Sch. I
                                                             150.15 -
29(9-25-91)      9-25-91     Regulating drainage water       150.18,
                                                             150.99(C)
30(9-25-91)      9-25-91     Penalty for parking violation   72.99(A)
31(9-25-91)      9-25-91     Amending ABC Administrator      Not included
32(10-23-91)     10-23-91    Police officer employment-      35.20
                             training
33(12-11-91)     12-11-91    Establishing public works       35.45(A)
                             department
                                                             72.15 -
34(4-8-92)       4-8-92      Parking prohibitions            72.16,
                                                             72.99(B)
                             Prohibiting alcohol             96.01 -
35(4-22-92)      4-22-92     consumption-minors              96.03,
                                                             96.99
36(4-22-92)      4-22-92     Reestablishing public works     35.45(A)
                             department
37(4-22-92)      4-22-92     Personnel policies - by         37.01
                             reference
38(5-13-92)      5-13-92     Handicapped parking designated  Ch. 75, Sch. II
39(6-29-92)      6-29-92     Annual budget FY 91-92          Not included
40(8-12-92)      8-12-92     Amending personnel policies     T.S.O. VIII
41(8-12-92)      8-12-92     Closing Tennis Place            T.S.O. VI
42(8-26-92)      8-26-92     Increasing garbage collection   50.03
                             rates
43(8-26-92)      8-26-92     Increasing water rates          [Rescinded]
44(9-9-92)       9-9-92      Ad valorem taxation             Not included
45(9-9-92)       9-9-92      Garbage container location      50.06,
                                                             50.99(B)
46(10-28-92)     10-28-92    Longevity plan                  T.S.O. VIII
                                                             155.01 -
47(11-11-93)     11-11-92    Trailers and their location     155.02,
                                                             155.99
48(11-11-93)     11-11-92    Impounding rates                72.23
49(1-11-93)      1-11-93     Personnel policies - leave time T.S.O. VIII
50(5-26-93)      5-26-93     Personnel policies - health     T.S.O. VIII
                             insurance
51(6-9-93)       6-9-93      Annual budget FY 93-94          Not included
52(6-23-93)      6-23-93     Amending annual budget FY 92-93 Not included
53(7-28-93)      7-28-93     Establishing city               31.38,
                             administrative officer          T.S.O. VIII
54(8-11-93)      8-11-93     Net profits tax-exempting       [Rescinded]
                             charities
55(8-11-93)      8-11-93     Adding duties to city           31.38(E)(6)
                             administrative officer
56(8-25-93)      8-25-93     Rezoning tract                  T.S.O. VII
57(9-22-93)      9-22-93     Closing Rockdale Ct. and        T.S.O. VI
                             Western Dr.
58(9-23-93)      9-23-93     Soliciting                      [Rescinded]
59(1-26-94)      1-26-94     Flood damage prevention         [Rescinded]
60(2-23-94)      2-23-94     Security alarm systems          97.01,
                                                             97.99
61(2-23-94)      2-23-94     Fixing compensation-city        T.S.O. VIII
                             employees
62(2-23-94)      2-23-94     Amending occupational license   [Rescinded]
63(4-27-94)      4-27-94     Amending personnel policies -   T.S.O. VIII
                             several provisions
64(4-27-94)      4-27-94     Parking                         Ch. 75, Sch. I,
                                                             72.99(B)
65(6-8-94)       6-8-94      Adopting annual budget FY 94-95 Not included
66(8-24-94)      8-24-94     Parking                         Ch. 75, Sch. II,
                                                             72.99(B)
67(9-14-94)      9-14-94     Ad valorem taxation             Not included
68(9-14-94)      9-14-94     Stop signs certain locations    Ch. 74, Sch. II
69(9-14-94)      9-14-94     One-way street regulations      Ch. 74, Sch. III,
                                                             70.99(B)
70(9-14-94)      9-14-94     Fees for appeals-board of       150.07
                             adjustment
71(10-12-94)     10-12-94    Stop sign at Stonehill Drive    70.01,
                             and Sagehill Drive              Ch. 74, Sch. II
72(12-20-94)     12-20-94    Code of Ethics                  [Rescinded]
73(2-8-95)       2-8-95      Amending the Code of Ethics     Ch. 39
                             [Rescinded Ord. 72(12-20-94)]
                             Reassigned duties of ABC
74(2-8-95)       2-8-95      Coordinator [Rescinded Ord. 3-  31.38
                             7-84]
75(2-8-95)       2-8-95      Amending personnel policies     T.S.O. VIII
76(4-26-95)      4-26-95     Closing northwestern end of     T.S.O. VI
                             Western Drive
77(4-26-95)      4-26-95     Harboring of animals            [Rescinded]
78(6-14-95)      6-14-95     Adopting FY 95-96 annual budget Not included
79(6-14-95)      6-14-95     Amending FY 94-95 annual budget Not included
80(6-14-95)      6-14-95     Establishing compensation of    T.S.O. VIII
                             city employees
81(6-14-95)      6-14-95     Amending personnel policies     T.S.O. VIII
82(8-9-95)       8-9-95      Amending personnel policies     T.S.O. VIII
82A(10-11-95)    10-11-95    Amending personnel policies     T.S.O. VIII
83(10-11-95)     10-11-95    Ad valorem tax                  Not included
84(10-25-95)     10-25-95    Interlocal agreement            T.S.O. I
85(10-25-95)     10-25-95    Open containers                 111.11
86(12-13-95)     12-13-95    Amending FY 95-96 annual budget Not included
87(2-28-96)      2-28-96     Establishing time and location  32.21
                             of regular meetings
88(4-24-96)      4-24-96     Amending personnel policies     T.S.O. VIII
89(4-24-96)      4-24-96     Amending personnel policies     T.S.O. VIII
90(4-24-96)      4-24-96     Amending personnel policies     T.S.O. VIII
91(4-24-96)      4-24-96     Handicapped parking             Ch. 75, Sch. II
92(6-12-96)      6-12-96     Amending FY 95-96 annual budget Not included
93(6-12-96)      6-12-96     Amending FY 95-96 annual budget Not included
94(9-20-96)      9-20-96     Ad valorem tax                  Not included
95(9-25-96)      9-25-96     Amending personnel policies     T.S.O. VIII
96(9-25-96)      9-25-96     Financial disclosure statements 39.40,
                             of candidates                   39.41
97(9-25-96)      9-25-96     Amending interlocal agreement   T.S.O. I
98(10-23-96)     10-23-96    General penalty                 10.99
99(10-23-96)     10-23-96    Authority as citation officer   31.04
                                                             70.01,
100(10-23-96)    10-23-96    Stop signs                      70.99,
                                                             Ch. 74, Sch. II
101(11-13-96)    11-13-96    Adopting FY 96-97 annual budget Not included
102(12-20-96)    12-20-96    Application for occupational    [Rescinded]
                             licences
104(01-22-97)    1-22-97     Financial disclosure statements 39.40,
                             of candidates                   39.41
105(3-12-97)     3-12-97     Amending personnel policies     T.S.O. VIII
106(3-26-97)     3-26-97     Building fees                   150.07
107(3-26-97      3-26-97     Amending zoning ordinance       156.01
108(4-9-97)      4-9-97      Establishing time and location  32.21
                             of regular meetings
                                                             70.01,
109(04-23-97)    4-23-97     Stop signs                      70.99,
                                                             Ch. 74, Sch. II
                             Abolishing Taylor Mill Utility
                             Commission and delating         31.38,
110(05-15-97)    5-15-97     responsibilty to City           35.45
                             Administrative Officer/City
                             Commission
111(5-28-97)     5-28-97     Fees for building and zoning    150.03,
                             permits                         156.02
112(6-11-97)     6-11-97     Amending FY 96-97 annual budget Not included
113(6-11-97)     6-11-97     Handicapped parking signs and   70.08
                             regulations
114(6-25-97)     6-25-97     Amending zoning ordinance       156.01
                             Enacted speed limit of 10 mph
115(6-25-97)     6-25-97     on Fairview Ave. and 15 mph on  [Rescinded]
                             Winona Ave.
116(6-25-97)     6-25-97     Adopting FY 97-98 annual budget Not included
                             Use of emergency medical and
117(7-23-97)     7-23-97     transportation vehicles with    [Rescinded]
                             fee listing
118(8-13-97)     8-13-97     Yearly bonus schedule for       T.S.O. VIII
                             longevity of employment
119(8-13-97)     8-13-97     Amending FY 97-98 annual budget Not included
120(8-27-97)     8-27-97     Stop signs                       Ch. 74 Sch. II
121(9-5-97)      9-5-97      Ad valorem taxation             36.01-
                                                             36.05
122(9-10-97)     9-10-97     Adopting Ordinance for 1997     Adopting ordinance
                             supplement
123(9-10-97)     9-10-97     Amending the annual waste       50.03
                             collection assessment
124(9-12-97)     9-12-97     Amending FY 97-98 annual budget Not included
125(10-8-97)     10-8-97     Enacted speed limit of 20 mph   Ch. 74 Sch. I 
                             on Lookaway Drive
126(10-8-97)     10-8-97     Stop signs                      Ch. 74 Sch. II
127(10-8-97)     10-8-97     Closing unnamed public alley     
                                                             T.S.O. VI
128(1-14-98)     1-14-98     Parking                         Ch. 75 Sch. I
129(2-25-98)     2-25-98     Granting franchise to TKR Cable T.S.O. IV
130(2-25-98)     2-25-98     Amends the Interlocal           T.S.O. I
                             Cooperation Agreement
131(4-8-98)      4-8-98      Enacted various speed limits on Ch. 74 Sch. I
                             various streets
132(4-22-98)     4-22-98     Construction of water main      Not included
133(4-22-98)     4-22-98     Stop signs                      Ch. 74 Sch. II
134(6-10-98)     6-10-98     Amending FY 97-98 annual budget Not included
135(6-15-98)     6-15-98     Amending personnel policies     T.S.O. VIII
136(6-17-98)     6-17-98     Position descriptions for all   37.01
                             non-elected paid personnel
137(6-17-98)     6-17-98     Adopting FY 98-99 annual budget Not included
138(9-9-98)      9-9-98      Ad valorem taxation             36.01-
                                                             36.05
                             No sales of motor vehicles off  117.01,
139(10-21-98)    10-21-98    of their permanent business     117.99
                             location or residence
140(10-21-98)    10-21-98    One-way streets                 Ch. 74 Sch. III
141(12-9-98)     12-9-98     Stop signs                      Ch. 74 Sch. II
142(1-20-99)     1-20-99     Streets open for maintenance    [Rescinded]
143(1-27-99)     1-27-99     Construction of water main      Not included
144(2-10-99)     2-10-99     Annual franchise tax and        116.01-
                             schedule of bills               116.05
145(2-24-99)     2-24-99     Stop signs                      Ch. 74 Sch. II
146(3-24-99)     3-24-99     Sending city bad checks         33.06
                             prohibited
147(3-24-99)     3-24-99     Policy for obtaining public     34.05
                             records
148(5-12-99)     5-12-99     Streets open for maintenance    94.75
                             [Rescinded Ord. 142(1-20-99)]
149(5-12-99)     5-12-99     Amending FY 98-99 annual budget Not included
                             Class 5 2 Ductile Iron Pipe to  53.24,
150(6-9-99)      6-9-99      be used in extensions of water  53.99
                             distribution system
151(6-9-99)      6-9-99      Closing Schneider Street        T.S.O. VI
152(6-23-99)     6-23-99     Adopting FY 99-00 annual budget Not included
153(7-28-99)     7-28-99     Parking                         Ch. 75, Sch. I
154(9-8-99)      9-8-99      Ad valorem taxation             Ch. 36
155(10-13-99)    10-13-99    Stop signs                      Ch. 74, Sched. II
156(10-27-99)    10-27-99    Closing a portion of Valley     T.S.O. VI
                             View Lane
157(2-9-00)      2-9-00      Amending zoning regulations     156.01
158(3-8-00)      3-8-00      Amending EMT services           [Rescinded]
159(5-24-00)     5-24-00     Amending FY 99-00 annual budget Not included
160(6-27-00)     6-27-00     Adopting FY 00-01 annual budget Not included
161(9-13-00)     9-13-00     Establishing a recreation       Ch. 98
                             system
162(9-13-00)     9-13-00     Ad valorem taxation             Ch. 36
163(10-25-00)    10-25-00    Street dedication               Not included
164(10-25-00)    10-25-00    Handicapped parking spaces      Ch. 75, Sch. II
165(10-25-00)    10-25-00    Amending Code of Ethical        Ch. 39
                             Conduct
166(10-25-00)    10-25-00    Increasing water rates          53.30,
                                                             53.99
167(10-25-00)    10-25-00    Regulating parking of           71.71
                             commercial vehicles
168(1-24-01)     1-24-01     Establishing time and location  32.21
                             for regular meetings
169(1-24-01)     1-24-01     Adopting ordinance for 1999 S-  Adopting ordinance
                             5 supplement
170(3-14-01)     3-14-01     Parking                         Ch.75, Sch. I
171(3-28-01)     3-28-01     Amending zoning regulations     156.01
172(4-25-01)     4-25-01     Closing a portion of Sandra     T.S.O. VI
                             Drive
173(6-27-01)     6-27-01     Amending FY 00-01 annual budget Not included
173A(6-13-01)    6-13-01     Rezoning 9 acre area on         T.S.O. VII
                             Decoursey Pike
174(6-27-01)     6-27-01     Adopting FY 01-02 annual budget Not included
175(6-27-01)     6-27-01     Establishing regulations for    Ch. 118
                             sexually oriented businesses
176(7-11-01)     7-11-01     Adopting 2000 International     153.01
                             Property Maintenance Code
                                                             93.03,
177(7-11-01)     7-11-01     Property maintenance            93.09,
                                                             93.99
178(9-12-01)     9-12-01     Closing sections of Vincent      
                             Drive                           T.S.O. VI
179(9-12-01)     9-12-01     Ad valorem taxation             Ch. 36
180(9-26-01)     9-26-01     Amending alcoholic beverages in 111.11
                             open containers
                                                              
181(1-9-02)      1-9-02      One-way streets                 70.99,
                                                             Ch. 74, Sch. III
                             Establishing rules and
182(2-13-02)     2-13-02     regulations for community       41.01
                             center
183(2-27-02)     2-27-02     Amending zoning regulations     156.01
184(2-27-02)     2-27-02     Police Department policy and    [Rescinded]
                             procedure manual
185(3-27-02)     3-27-02     Compensation of Mayor and city  Not included
                             commission
186(4-10-02)     4-10-02     Amending zoning regulations     156.01
187(5-22-02)     5-22-02     Stop signs                      70.99,
                                                             Ch. 74, Sch. I
188(6-26-02)     6-26-02     Amending FY 01-02 annual budget Not included
189(6-26-02)     6-26-02     Adopting FY 02-03 annual budget Not included
190(7-10-02)     7-10-02     Changing Short Mason Road to    Not included
                             South Mason Road
                             Establishing rules and
191(7-24-02)     7-24-02     regulations for the inspection  34.13
                             and copying city of public
                             records
192(9-9-02)      9-9-02      Ad valorem taxation             Ch. 36
                                                             70.99,
193(9-25-02)     9-25-02     Stop signs and speed limits     Ch. 75, Sch. I,
                                                             II
194(11-20-02)    11-20-02    Parking                         72.99,
                                                             Ch. 75, Sch. I
195(1-22-03)     1-22-03     Closing a portion of Towerview  T.S.O. VI
                             Dr.
196(5-28-03)     5-28-03     Amending FY 02-03 annual budget Not included
197(5-28-03)     5-28-03     Repealing Police Department     Not included
                             policy and procedure manual
198(6-11-03)     6-11-03     Amending annual waste           50.03
                             collection assessment
199(6-11-03)     6-11-03     Alcoholic and malt beverage     111.05,
                             regulations, licenses and fees  111.08
200(6-25-03)     6-25-03     Adopting FY 03-04 annual budget Not included
201(8-13-03)     8-13-03     Monthly water usage fees        53.30
202(8-13-03)     8-13-03     Amending zoning ordinance       156.01
203(9-4-03)      9-4-03      Ad valorem taxation             Ch. 36
204(10-8-03)     10-8-03     Monthly water usage fees        53.03
205(1-14-04)     1-14-04     2003 International Property     153.01,
                             Maintenance Code                153.99
206(2-25-04)     2-25-04     Water utility                   Not included
207(4-14-04)     4-14-04     Parking                         Ch. 75, Sch. I
208(4-28-04)     4-28-04     Stop signs                      Ch. 74, Sch. II
                                                             115.01,
209(4-28-04)     4-28-04     Peddlers and solicitors         115.02,
                                                             115.99
211(5-26-04)     5-26-04     City Commission meetings        32.21
212(6-9-04)      6-9-04      Amending FY 03-04 annual budget Not included
213(6-23-04)     6-23-04     Adopting FY 04-05 annual budget Not included
214(7-14-04)     7-14-04     Amending annual waste           50.03
                             collection assessment
216(9-7-04)      9-7-06      Ad valorem taxation             Ch. 36
217(10-13-04)    10-13-04    Parking                         Ch. 75, Sch. I
218(10-13-04)    10-13-04    Stop signs                      Ch. 74, Sch. II
219(12-8-04)     12-8-04     Benches and other types of      94.36
                             seats
                                                             114.01,
220(3-9-05)      3-9-05      Insurance business taxes and    114.03,
                             fees                            114.04,
                                                             114.05
221(6-8-05)      6-8-05      Amending zoning ordinance       156.01
222(6-8-05)      6-8-05      Residential Code                150.25,
                                                             150.26
223(6-8-05)      6-8-05      Amending EMS fees               40.01,
                                                             40.02
224(6-14-05)     6-14-05     Communication services          119.01 -
                                                             119.07
225(6-27-05)     6-27-05     Amending FY 04-05 annual budget Not included
226(6-27-05)     6-27-05     Adopting FY 05-06 annual budget Not included
                             Zoning, building and electric   150.03,
227(8-10-05)     8-10-05     permit fees                     150.04,
                                                             156.02
228(10-12-05)    10-12-05    Ad valorem taxation             Ch. 36
229(10-12-05)    10-12-05    Amending annual waste           50.03
                             collection assessment
230(1-11-06)     1-11-06     Zoning map amendment            T.S.O. VII
231(2-8-06)      2-8-06      Code Enforcement Board          42.01 -
                                                             42.08
                             Amending zoning ordinance
232(3-8-06)      3-8-06      establishing six month          Not included
                             moratorium
233(4-12-06)     4-12-06     Amending zoning ordinance       156.01
234(4-12-06)     4-12-06     Amending zoning ordinance       156.01
235(6-20-06)     6-20-06     Amending FY 05-06 annual budget Not included
236(6-20-06)     6-20-06     Adopting FY 06-07 annual budget Not included
                             Animals (repealed by animal
237(6-20-06)     6-20-06     control ordinance 357(04-08-    Not included
                             2020))
238(8-9-06)      8-9-06      Amending zoning ordinance       156.01
239(9-13-06)     9-13-06     Ad valorem taxation             Ch. 36
240(11-8-06)     11-8-06     Amending annual waste           50.03
                             collection assessment
241(3-2-07)      3-2-07      Amending zoning ordinance       156.01
242(6-27-07)     6-27-07     Amending FY 06-07 annual budget Not included
243(6-27-07)     6-27-07     Adopting FY 07-08 annual budget Not included
244(6-27-07)     6-27-07     Amending annual waste           50.03
                             collection assessment
245(7-13-07)     7-13-07     Zoning map amendment            T.S.O. VII
246(7-13-07)     7-13-07     Amending zoning ordinance       156.01
247(7-13-07)     7-13-07     Zoning map amendment            T.S.O. VII
248(9-14-07)     9-14-07     Zoning map amendment            T.S.O. VII
249(11-20-07)    11-20-07    Stop signs                      Ch. 74, Sch. II
                                                             110.01 -
250(12-12-07)    12-12-07    occupational license tax        110.05,
                                                             110.99
                             Flood protection development
251(12-12-07)    12-12-07    controls (repealed by flood     Not included
                             protection ordinance 291(05-07-
                             2013))
252(3-12-08)     3-12-08     Zoning map amendment            T.S.O. VII
253(4-9-08)      4-9-08      Zoning map amendment            T.S.O. VII
254(6-11-08)     6-11-08     Adopting FY 08-09 annual budget Not included
255(6-11-08)     6-11-08     Amending FY 07-08 annual budget Not included
256(6-11-08)     6-11-08     Parking                         Ch. 75, Sch. I
257(9-10-08)     9-10-08     Zoning map amendment            T.S.O. VII
258(9-10-08)     9-10-08     Ad valorem taxation             Ch. 36
259(10-8-08)     10-8-08     Closing a portion of Droege     T.S.O. VI
                             Avenue
260(11-12-08)    11-12-08    Amending zoning ordinance       156.01
261(11-12-08)    11-12-08    Stop signs                      Ch. 74, Sch. II
262(12-10-08)    12-10-08    Occupational license tax        110.03
263(3-11-09)     3-11-09     Amending personnel policies     T.S.O. VIII
264(3-11-09)     3-11-09     Granting franchise to           T.S.O. IV
                             Cincinnati Bell
265(4-8-09)      4-8-09      Amending EMS fees               40.01,
                                                             40.02
266(6-10-09)     6-10-09     Amending FY 08-09 annual budget Not included
267(6-10-09)     6-10-09     Adopting FY 09-10 annual budget Not included
268(10-19-09)    10-19-09    Ad valorem taxation             Ch. 36
269(05-12-2010)  5-12-10     One-way streets                  
                                                             Ch. 74, Sch. III
270(06-09-10)    6-9-10      Amending FY 09-10 annual budget Not included
271(06-09-10)    6-9-10      Adopting FY 10-11 annual budget Not included
272(08-11-10)    8-11-10     Amending EMS fees               40.01,
                                                             40.02
273(9-7-10)      9-7-10      Regulating used property        Ch. 120
                             businesses
274(10-13-10)    10-13-10    Ad valorem taxation             Ch. 36
275(5-11-11)     5-11-11     Alcoholic and malt beverage     111.05
                             regulations, licenses and fees
276(6-08-2011)   6-8-11      Zoning map amendment            T.S.O. VII
277(07-13-11)    7-13-11     Amending zoning ordinance       156.01
278(06-08-11)    6-8-11      Amending FY 10-11 annual budget Not included
279(06-08-11)    6-8-11      Adopting FY 11-12 annual budget Not included
281(08-17-11)    8-17-11     Real estate transaction         T.S.O. V
282(10-25-11)    10-25-11    Ad valorem taxation             Ch. 36
283(06-06-12)    6-6-12      Amending FY 11-12 annual budget Not included
284(06-06-12)    6-6-12      Adopting FY 12-13 annual budget Not included
285(10-26-12)    10-26-12    Amending annual waste           50.03
                             collection assessment
286(10-26-12)    10-26-12    Ad valorem taxation             Ch. 36
287(01-09-2013)  1-9-13      Stop signs                      Ch. 74, Sch. II
288(01-09-2013)  1-9-13      Renaming streets                Not included
289(02-13-2013)  2-13-13     Stop signs                      Ch. 74, Sch. II
290(05/08/2013)  5-8-13      Amending zoning ordinance       156.01
                                                             152.01 -
                                                             152.10,
                             Repealing flood protection      152.15 -
291(05-07-2013)  5-7-13      ordinance 251(12-12-07); flood  152.18,
                             protection development controls 152.25 -
                                                             152.31,
                                                             152.98,
                                                             152.99
292(6-12-13)     6-12-13     Amending FY 12-13 annual budget Not included
293(6-12-13)     6-12-13     Adopting FY 13-14 annual budget Not included
294(10-09-2013)  10-9-13     Ad valorem taxation             Ch. 36
295(04-23-14)    4-23-14     Amending zoning ordinance       156.01
296(04-23-14)    4-23-14     Amending zoning ordinance       156.01
297(06-11-2014)  6-11-14     Amending EMS fees               40.01,
                                                             40.02
298(06-11-2014)  6-11-14     Closing a portion of Ivybrook   T.S.O. VI
                             Drive
299(06-11-2014)  6-11-14     Amending FY 13-14 annual budget Not included
300(06-11-2014)  6-11-14     Adopting FY 14-15 annual budget Not included
301(09/10/2014)  9-10-14     Financing construction cost     Not included
302(11-28-2014)  11-28-14    Ad valorem taxation             Ch. 36
303(11-28-2014)  11-28-14    Amending annual waste           50.03
                             collection assessment
304(12-10-2014)  12-10-14    Establishing franchise for use  T.S.O. IV
                             of public streets
305(04-08-2015)  4-8-15      Granting franchise to Duke      T.S.O. IV
                             Energy
306(05-13-2015)  5-13-15     Stop signs                      Ch. 74, Sch. II
306A(06-10-15)   6-10-15     Amending FY 14-15 annual budget Not included
306B(06-10-15)   6-10-15     Amending FY 15-16 annual budget Not included
307(08-12- 2015) 8-12-15     Repealing motor vehicle license 70.30 - 70.35
                             Ordinance 3(5-10-90)
308(10-14- 2015) 10-14-15    Amending zoning ordinance       156.01
309(11-11- 2015) 11-11-15    Ad valorem taxation             36.01 -
                                                             36.05
310(11-19- 2015) 11-19-15    Amending annual waste           50.03
                             collection assessment
311(12-9-2015)   12-9-15     Adopting ordinance for 2016     Adopting Ordinance
                             supplement
312(05-23- 2016) 5-23-16     Zoning map amendment            T.S.O. VII
313(06-8-2016)   6-8-16      Amending FY 15-16 annual budget Not included
314A(06-18-16)   6-18-16     Amending FY 16-17 annual budget Not included
315(11-09-2016)  11-9-16     Ad valorem taxation             36.01 -
                                                             36.05
316(12-14-16)    12-14-16    Discharging firearms in Pride   98.02
                             Park
317(01-11-2017)  1-11-17     Restrictions on commercial      71.72,
                             trucks                          71.99
318(02-15-17)    2-15-17     Amending zoning ordinance       156.01
319(5-10-2017)   5-10-17     Stop signs                      Ch. 74, Sch. II
320(5-10-2017)   5-10-17     Financing construction cost     Not included
321(06-21-17)    6-21-17     Amending FY 16-17 annual budget Not included
322(06-21-17)    6-21-17     Adopting FY 17-18 annual budget Not included
323(8-16-17)     8-16-17     Amending zoning ordinance       156.01
324(9-13-17)     9-13-17     Amending zoning ordinance       156.01
325(9-13-17)     9-13-17     Amending zoning ordinance       156.01
326(11-8-2017)   11-8-17     Zoning map amendment            T.S.O. VII
327(11-8-2017)   11-8-17     Ad valorem taxation             36.01 -
                                                             36.05
328(11-8-2017)   11-8-17     Amending annual waste           50.03
                             collection assessment
329(1-10-18)     1-10-18     Amending personnel pay policy   T.S.O. VIII
330(3-14-18)     3-14-18     Amending zoning ordinance       156.01
331(3-14-18)     3-14-18     Transferring parcels of land     T.S.O. V
                             from the City of Covington
332(5-9-18)      5-9-18      Amending zoning ordinance       156.01
333(6-13-18)     6-13-18     Amending zoning ordinance       156.01
334(6-13-18)     6-13-18     Amending FY 17-18 Budget        Not included
335(6-13-18)     6-13-18     Adopting FY 18-19 Budget        Not included
336(10-10-18)    10-10-18    Ad valorem taxation             36.01 -
                                                             36.05
337(10-10-18)    10-10-18    Amending annual waste           50.03
                             collection assessment
338(10-10-18)    10-10-18    Amending zoning ordinance       156.01
339(2-6-19)      2-6-19      Amending personnel pay policy   T.S.O. VIII
340(3-13-19)     3-13-19     Amending alcoholic beverage     111.08
                             regulations
341(04-10-2019)  4-10-19     Amending zoning ordinance       156.01
342(05-08-2019)  5-8-19      Amending zoning ordinance       156.01
343(04-10-2019)  4-10-19     Amending police officer         35.21
                             training regulations
345(05-08-2019)  5-8-19      Amending zoning ordinance       156.01
346(06-12-2019)  6-12-19     Amending FY 18-19 Budget        Not included
347(06-12-2019)  6-12-19     Amending FY 19-20 Budget        Not included
348(08-14-19)    8-14-19     Amending community center       41.02
                             regulations
349(08-21-2019)  8-21-19     Amending zoning ordinance       156.01
350(09-11-19)    9-11-19     Ad valorem taxation             36.01 -
                                                             36.05
351(09-11-19)    9-11-19     Amending zoning ordinance       156.01
352(11-13-19)    11-13-19    Creating a new                  T.S.O. IV
                             telecommunications franchise
353(12-11-2019)  12-11-19    Amending motor vehicle parking  Ch. 75, Sch. I
                             regulations
353(12-11-2019)  12-11-19    Amending motor vehicle parking  Ch. 75, Sch. I
                             regulations
354(03-11-2020)  3-11-20     Amending handling fee on        72.23
                             impounded motor vehicles
                                                             39.01 -
                                                             39.04,
                                                             39.10 -
                             Amending Code of Ethical        39.29,
355(04-08-2020)  4-8-20      Conduct                         39.40 -
                                                             39.45,
                                                             39.60 -
                                                             39.69,
                                                             39.99
356(04-08-2020)  4-8-20      Granting a telecommunications   T.S.O. IV
                             franchise
                             Repealing animal control
357(04-08-2020)  4-8-20      ordinance 237 (6-20-06);        90.01
                             adopting Kenton County
                             ordinance 840.11 by reference
358(04-08-2020)  4-8-20      Renaming street                 Not included
359(06-10-2020)  6-10-20     Amending FY 19-20 Budget        Not included
360(06-10-2020)  6-10-20     Adopting FY 20-21 Budget        Not included
361(08-31-2020)  8-31-20     Approving participation in      T.S.O. I
                             program
362(09-14-2020)  9-14-20     Ad valorem taxation             36.01 -
                                                             36.05
363(09-09-2020)  9-9-20      Amending annual waste           50.03
                             collection assessment
364(12/09/2020)  12-9-20     Amending zoning ordinance       156.01
                             Changing numbers of several
365(02/10/2021)  2-10-20     houses as the result of the     Not included
                             construction of Pride Parkway
366(04-14-2021)  4-14-21     Amending zoning ordinance       156.01
367(05-12-2021)  5-12-21     Zoning map amendment            T.S.O. VII
368(06-09-2021)  6-9-21      Adopting interlocal agreement   T.S.O. I
369(06-09-2021)  6-9-21      Amending FY 20-21 Budget        Not included
370(06-09-2021)  6-9-21      Adopting FY 21-22 Budget        Not included
371(09-08-2021)  9-8-21      Ad valorem taxation             36.01 -
                                                             36.05
372(09-08-2021)  9-8-21      Amending annual solid waste     50.03
                             collection fee
373(11-10-2021)  11-10-21    Amending EMS fees               40.01,
                                                             40.02
374              11-10-21    Granting a cable television     T.S.O. IV
                             franchise
375(02-09-22)    2-9-22      City Commission; adding caucus  32.21
                             meetings
376(03-09-2022)  3-9-22      Adopting a new pay/wage plan    T.S.O. VIII
377(05-11-2022)  5-11-22     Regulating chickens in          90.02,
                             residential zones               90.99
378(05-11-2022)  5-11-22     Replacing zoning code and       156.01,
                             zoning map                      T.S.O. VII
380(06-08-2022)  6-8-22      Adopting FY 22-23 Budget        Not included
381(09-28-2022)  9-28-21     Ad valorem taxation             36.01 -
                                                             36.05
382(09-28-2022)  9-28-22     Ammending annual solid waste    50.03
                             collection fee
383              11-9-22     Renaming street                 Not included
385(06-14-2023)  6-14-23     Adopting FY 23-24 Budget        Not included
386(06-28-23)    6-28-23     Amending personnel policies     T.S.O. VIII
387(06-28-23)    6-28-23     Amending FY 22-23 Budget        Not included
388(06-28-23)    6-28-23     Amending EMS fees               40.01,
                                                             40.02
389(09-13-23)    9-13-23     Granting a cable television     T.S.O. IV
                             franchise
390(09-28-2023)  9-28-23     Ad valorem taxation             36.01 -
                                                             36.05
391(09-28-2023)  9-28-23     Amending annual solid waste     50.03
                             collection fee
392(11-28-2023)  11-28-23    Amending 23/24 Budget           Not included
                                                             121.01 -
393(11-28-2023)  11-28-23    Creating a rental registry      121.05,
                                                             121.99
394              6-12-24     Lease agreement                 T.S.O. I
396(06-12-2024)  6-12-24     Adopting 24/25 Budget           Not included
397(09-11-2024   9-11-24     Nuisances, ATV and dirt bike    93.03,
                             operation                       93.99
398(07-10-2024)  7-10-24     Prohibiting cannabis business   122.01
399              8-14-24     Amending shooting permits       136.01
                             within city
400(09-11-2024)  9-11-24     Ad valorem taxation             36.01 -
                                                             36.05
401(09-11-2024)  9-11-24     Amending annual solid waste     50.03
                             collection fee
402(10-09-2024)  10-9-24     Amending zoning code            156.01
403(10-09-2024)  10-9-24     Adding new streets              Not included
                                                           
 
 
