CITY OF UNION, KY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-14 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through 12-16-24; and
State legislation current through KRS 2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588
www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS OF UNION, KENTUCKY
MAYOR
Larry K. Solomon
CITY ADMINISTRATOR
Amy Safran
CITY CLERK
Tammy Wilhoite
CITY TREASURER
Christy Everman
COMMUNICATIONS COORDINATOR
Jaime Lyons
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR
Paul Kremer
COMMISSION MEMBERS
John Mefford
Doug Bine
George Eldridge
Kimberly Tuyn
 
 
The Warren S. Moore City Building
Telephone: (859) 384-1511
Website: www.cityofunionky.org
Mailing Address:
City of Union
1843 Bristow Drive
Union, KY 41091-9534
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
CITY OF UNION, KENTUCKY
ORDINANCE NO. 97-006
ENACTING AS AN ORDINANCE, A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF UNION, REVISING,
AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE.
WHEREAS, the present general ordinances of the City of Union are incomplete and
inadequate and the manner of arrangement, classification and indexing thereof
is insufficient to meet the immediate needs of the City; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the Commonwealth of Kentucky empower
and authorize the Legislative Body of this City to revise, amend, restate,
codify and to compile any existing ordinance or ordinances and all new
ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate the
ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Body of the City of Union has authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in book form;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Legislative Body of the City of Union
that:
Section 1. The general ordinances of the City of Union as herein revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are adopted as and shall
constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the City of Union.”
Section 2. The Code as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the following
titles:
   TITLE I:   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   TITLE III:   ADMINISTRATION
   TITLE V:   PUBLIC WORKS
   TITLE VII:   TRAFFIC CODE
   TITLE IX:   GENERAL REGULATIONS
   TITLE XI:   BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   TITLE XIII:   GENERAL OFFENSES
   TITLE XV:   LAND USAGE
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in the Code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of the Code, except
as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in the Code; provided
that such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty incurred or
any right established prior to the effective date of the Code, nor shall such
repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying appropriating money,
annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises or granting special
rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the
issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the
   Adopting Ordinance
purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or accepting easements
or plats, accepting dedications of land to public use, vacating or setting the
boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal affect any
other ordinance of a temporary or special nature of pertaining to subjects not
contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4. The Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and
approval by the City Legislative Body and the Clerk of the City of Union is
hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of the Code in the Office of the
City Clerk.
Section 5. The Code shall be in full force and effect from and after its date
of passage, approval and publication as required by law. The Code shall be
presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the ordinance and all
provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein contained, and of the
date of passage, and that the same is properly signed, attested, recorded and
approved, and that any public hearings and notices thereof as required by law
have been given.
Introduced, given first reading and passed on the 15th day of September, 1997.
Adopted by the Union City Commission after second reading on the 6th day of
October, 1997.
APPROVED:   ATTEST:
/s/ Warren S. Moore      /s/ Kathy Porter   
Warren S. Moore, Mayor   Kathy Porter, City Clerk
DATE PUBLISHED:   
ORDINANCE NO. 02-005
Adopting Ordinance
CITY OF UNION, KENTUCKY
ORDINANCE NO. 02-005
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF UNION, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, Burlington Publishing Systems, Florence, Kentucky, has completed
the 2002 S-1 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Union,
Kentucky, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the adoption of the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said Burlington Publishing Systems has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Kentucky code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Commission to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Commission of the City of Union,
Commonwealth of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1.   That the 2002 S-1 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Union, as submitted by Burlington Publishing Systems, and as attached
hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its
entirety.
   SECTION 2.   That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Date of First Reading       July 8, 2002
Date of Second Reading    August 12, 2002  
   /s/ Warren Moore   
Warren S. Moore, Mayor
/s/ Kathy Porter   
Kathy Porter, City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 04-003
Adopting Ordinance
CITY OF UNION, KENTUCKY
ORDINANCE NO. 04-003
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF UNION, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2004 S-2 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Union, Kentucky, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the adoption of the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the Kentucky Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Commission to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Commission of the City of Union,
Commonwealth of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1.   That the 2004 S-2 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Union, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation, and as
attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in its entirety.
   SECTION 2.   That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Date of First Reading      June 22, 2004
Date of Second Reading   July 12, 2004
   /s/ Don Kirby   
Don Kirby, Mayor
/s/ Kathy Porter   
Kathy Porter, City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 2005-014
Adopting Ordinance
CITY OF UNION, KENTUCKY
ORDINANCE NO. 2005-014
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF UNION, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2005 S-3 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Union, Kentucky, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the adoption of the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the Kentucky Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Commission to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Commission of the City of Union,
Commonwealth of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1.   That the 2005 S-3 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Union, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation, and as
attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in its entirety.
   SECTION 2.   That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Date of First Reading      October 10, 2005
Date of Second Reading   November 14, 2005
                  /s/ Don Kirby   
                  Don Kirby, Mayor
/s/ Kathy Porter   
Kathy Porter, City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 2007-008
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF UNION, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2007 S-4 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Union, Kentucky, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the adoption of the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the Kentucky Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Commission to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Commission of the City of Union,
Commonwealth of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1. That the 2007 S-4 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Union, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation, and as
attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Date of First Reading      August 13, 2007
Date of Second Reading   September 10, 2007
/s/
Donald Kirby, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/
Kathy Porter, City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 2008-012
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF UNION, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2008 S-5 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Union, Kentucky, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the adoption of the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the Kentucky Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Commission to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Commission of the City of Union,
Commonwealth of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1. That the 2008 S-5 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Union, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation, and as
attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Date of First Reading      October 13, 2008
Date of Second Reading   November 10, 2008
   Donald Kirby /s/  
   Donald Kirby, Mayor
ATTEST:
Kathy Porter /s/
Kathy Porter, City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 2009-010
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF UNION, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2009 S-6 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Union, Kentucky, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the adoption of the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the Kentucky Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Commission to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Commission of the City of Union,
Commonwealth of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1.   That the 2009 S-6 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Union, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation, and as
attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in its entirety.
   SECTION 2.   That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Date of First Reading      October 5, 2009
Date of Second Reading   November 2, 2009
                           Donald Kirby /s/
                           Donald Kirby, Mayor
ATTEST:
Kathy Porter /s/
Kathy Porter, City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 2011-005
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF UNION, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2011 S-7 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Union, Kentucky, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the adoption of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Union,
Kentucky; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances, which are
based on or make references to sections of the Kentucky Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Union City Commission to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Commission of the City of Union,
Commonwealth of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1.   That the 2011 S-7 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Union, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation, and as
attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in its entirety.
   SECTION 2.   That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Date of First Reading:      June 6, 2011
Date of Second Reading:   July 5, 2011
                        Donald Kirby /s/
                        Donald Kirby, Mayor
ATTEST:
Kathy Porter /s/
Kathy Porter, City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 2012-009
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF UNION, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2012 S-8 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Union, Kentucky, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the adoption of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Union,
Kentucky; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances, which are
based on or make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Union City Commission to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Commission of the City of Union,
Commonwealth of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1.   That the 2012 S-8 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Union, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation, and as
attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in its entirety.
   SECTION 2.   That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Date of First Reading:      December 3, 2012
Date of Second Reading:   January 7, 2012
                           Donald Kirby /s/  
                            Donald Kirby, Mayor
ATTEST:
Kathy Porter /s/
Kathy Porter, City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 2014-017
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF UNION, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2014 S-9 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Union, Kentucky, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the adoption of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Union,
Kentucky; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances for the City
of Union, Kentucky, which are based on or make references to sections of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Union City Commission to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Commission of the City of Union,
Commonwealth of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1.   That the 2014 S-9 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Union, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation, and as
attached hereto, be and the same is HEREBY ADOPTED by reference as if set out
in its entirety.
   SECTION 2.   That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Date of First Reading:      November 3, 2014
Date of Second Reading:   December 1, 2014
                           Donald Kirby /s/
                             Donald Kirby, Mayor
ATTEST:
Kathy Porter /s/
Kathy Porter, City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 2017-03
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF UNION, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2016 S-10 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Union, Kentucky, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the adoption of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Union,
Kentucky; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances for the City
of Union, Kentucky, which are based on or make references to sections of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Union City Commission to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Commission of the City of Union,
Commonwealth of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1.   That the 2016 S-10 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Union, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation, and as
attached hereto, be and the same is HEREBY ADOPTED by reference as if set out
in its entirety.
   SECTION 2.   That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Date of First Reading:      March 6,2017
Date of Second Reading:      April 3, 2017
                                 Larry K. Solomon /s/
                                 Hon. Larry K. Solomon, Mayor
ATTEST:
Melissa Hinkle /s/
Melissa Hinkle
Interim City Clerk/Treasurer
ORDINANCE NO. 2023-07
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF UNION, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2023 S-13 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Union, Kentucky, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Commission to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the changes of law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF UNION, KENTUCKY AS FOLLOWS:
   SECTION I.   That the 2023 S-13 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Union, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation
of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION II.   That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
   PASSED AND APPROVED BY 4 MEMBERS OF THE CITY COMMISSION FOR THE CITY OF
UNION, KENTUCKY ON THIS THE 15TH DAY OF MAY, 2023.
   FIRST READING:      MAY 1, 2023
   SECOND READING:   MAY 15, 2023
                           APPROVED:
                           Larry K. Solomon /s/                            Hon.
Larry K. Solomon, Mayor
ATTEST:
Tammy Wilhoite /s/
Tammy Wilhoite, City Clerk
Published: May 19, 2023
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Union Code, for which designation codified ordinances or code may be
substituted. Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the traffic code. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation "§" followed by the number, such as §
10.01. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state. (KRS 446.010
(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boat and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards. (KRS 446.010(55))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code shall
denote the City of Union irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMMISSION. The City Commission. (KRS 83A.010(3))
   COMPANY.  May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association. (KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association. (KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNTY. Boone County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY.  As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted. (KRS
446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability, means all those incorporated or formed by authority of this
state. (KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL.  Any animal converted to domestic habitat. (KRS 446.010
(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Commission. (KRS 83A.010(6))
   EXECUTIVE ORDER. An order issued by the Mayor which is binding upon the
officers and employees of the city and any governmental agency over which the
city has jurisdiction. (KRS 83A.010(7))
   FEDERAL.  Refers to the United States. (KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability, includes all those incorporated or formed by authority of
any other state. (KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest. (KRS
446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY.  The City Commission. (KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER.  A City Commissioner. (KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes,
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, or camelid
species. (KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive. (KRS 446.010(26))
   MISDEMEANOR.  An offense for which the criminal fine cannot exceed the
amount set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(a), or a term of imprisonment not to exceed
the periods set forth in KRS 532.090(1), or both. (KRS 83A.065)
   MONTH. Calendar month. (KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPAL ORDER.  An official act of the City Council which is binding upon
the officers and employees of the City and any governmental agency over which
the municipality has jurisdiction. (KRS 83A.010(9))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Union, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes affirmation in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010(28))
   OFFICER. Any person elected to a position by the voters or any person
appointed to a position which:
   (a)   Is created by the Constitution, the General Assembly, or a city;
   (b)   Possesses a delegation of a portion of the sovereign power of
Government;
   (c)   Has powers and duties to be discharged which are conferred directly or
by implication by the city;
   (d)   Has duties performed independently and without control of a superior
power other than the law;
   (e)   Has some permanency;
   (f)   Requires an official oath;
   (g)   Is assigned by a commission or other written authority; and
   (h)   Provides for an official bond if required by proper authority. (KRS
83A.010(10))
   ORDINANCE. An official act of a city legislative body, which is a regulation
of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law or is an
appropriation of money. (KRS 83A.010(11))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited partnerships. (KRS 446.010
(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers, and other persons with similar authority
to make arrests. (KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships,
registered limited liability partnerships, joint stock companies, and limited
liability companies. (KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd numbered years at which state
officers are elected. (KRS 446.010(37))
   RESOLUTION. A resolution is a less formal mechanism for dealing with matters
of a special or temporary character. While an ordinance, and to a large extent
a municipal order, involves a distinctly legislative act, a resolution is
simply an expression of the opinion, will or policy of the legislative body on
some matter of ministerial business which has come before the body.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory. (KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   SWORN. Includes AFFIRMED in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Such as exists when there is an unexpired part of a term
of office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the person elected or
appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, county, city, or district, or otherwise. (KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with. (KRS 446.010(47))
   VIOLATION. An offense for which the criminal fine cannot exceed the amount
set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(c). (KRS 83A.065)
   YEAR.  Calendar year. (KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things. (KRS
446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males. (KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of City
Commission. (KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared. (KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to such meaning. (KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or notice shall
mean the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty
or compliance with such notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three (3) or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
officers or other persons. (KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be construed to
include such acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of City Commission in enacting
any ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that City
Commission would not have enacted the remaining parts without the
unconstitutional part, or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are
incomplete and incapable of being executed in accordance with the intent of
City Commission.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of the City Commission.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of the City Commission as long as it takes effect prior to
the effective date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
the City Commission which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of the City Commission as long
as the repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the
original amendment.
   (E)   No other action of the City Commission repealing a repealer or an
amendment shall have the effect of reviving the original language of the
repealer or amendment as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of such proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, such provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect. (KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the City
Commission, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional
ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the
ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving such
purpose effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall
remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances
until the City Commission shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.37 of this code should be used by the city to amend, add, or repeal a
chapter, section, or division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of such error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for-word the same as the statute. Example: (KRS
83A.090) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85). If a KRS cite
is set forth as a statutory reference following the text of the section, this
indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for further information.
Example:
§ 31.10 MAYOR.
   The executive authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised by the
Mayor.
(Ord. 10, passed 1-1-80)
   Statutory reference:
      For powers and duties of the Mayor, see KRS 83A.130
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation and the offender shall be fined not more than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) for each offense.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COMMISSION PLAN
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY COMMISSION
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
34A.   PUBLIC MEETINGS
      
35.   TAXATION
      
36.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
      
37.   CODE OF ETHICS
      
38.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
39.   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
      40.   LICENSING, SALE, ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 30: COMMISSION PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided in this chapter shall be known as the
"Commission Plan."
(KRS 83A.140(1))
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected officer who shall be called
Mayor and by elected legislative body members who shall be called City
Commissioners and which together shall be known as the City Commission and by
such other officers and employees as may be provided for by statute or city
ordinance. (KRS 83A.140(2))
   (B)   The City Commission shall be composed of the Mayor and four
Commissioners. (KRS 83A.030(2))
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath of office
   
31.02   Bond
   
31.03   Compensation
   
31.04   Removal from office
Elected Officials
   
31.20   Election procedure
   
31.21   Mayor; Mayor Pro Tem
   
31.22   Commissioners
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.35   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.36   City Clerk
   
31.37   City Treasurer
   
31.38   City Attorney
   
31.39   [Reserved]
   
31.40   City Administrative Officer
Miscellaneous Officials
   
31.55   City Events Coordinator
   
31.56      Communications and Operations Director
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Oath. Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his office, take the following oath: "I do solemnly
swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of
the United States and the Constitution of this Commonwealth, and be faithful
and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky so long as I continue a citizen
thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the
office of ____________________ according to law; and I do further solemnly
swear (or affirm) that, since the adoption of the present Constitution, I,
being a citizen of this State, have not fought a duel with deadly weapons
within this State, nor out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to
fight a duel with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a second in carrying a
challenge, nor aided or assisted any person thus offending, so help me God", as
established by Section 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (B)   Certification of oath. The person administering the oath of office to
an elected official shall certify in writing that the oath was administered and
the date of its administration. The written certification shall be filed in
accordance with KRS 62.020.
§ 31.02 BOND.
   (A)   All officers, officials and employees of cities, counties, urban-
county governments, charter county governments and special districts who handle
public funds in the execution of their duties shall give a good and sufficient
bond to the local governing body for the faithful and honest performance of his
or her duties and as security for all money coming into that person's hands or
under that person's control. The bond amount shall be based upon the maximum
amount of public funds the officer, official or employee handles at any given
time during a fiscal year cycle. The local governing body shall pay the cost of
the bond.
   (B)   Elected officials who post bond as required by statute, and employees
of their offices covered by a blanket or umbrella bond, shall be deemed to have
complied with subsection (A) of this section.
(KRS Chapter 65)
§ 31.03 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Commission shall by ordinance fix the compensation of every
elected city officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in
which the officer is elected. An elected officer's compensation shall not be
changed after his or her election or during his or her term of office.
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of the Mayor and Commissioners
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the State Finance and Administration
Cabinet computes by the second Friday in February of every year the annual
increase or decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using
1949 as the base year in accordance with section 246 of the Constitution of
Kentucky, which provides that the Mayor and Commissioners shall be paid at a
rate no greater than seven thousand two hundred dollars ($7,200.00) per annum.
      (2)   The Commission shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
State Finance and Administration Cabinet.
   (B)   The Commission shall fix the compensation of each appointed city
officer by ordinance and may change it by ordinance.
   (C)   The Commission shall establish the compensation of city employees in
accordance with the personnel and pay classification plan ordinance of the
city.
   (D)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
§ 31.04 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
inability, or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his or her
office, may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the
Commission exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his removal. No elected officer shall be removed without having
been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed, has the
right to appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall be on
the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated before
the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Commission at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(2)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.20 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The election of candidates to all elected city offices shall be
governed by the provisions of this section and by the applicable provisions of
KRS Chapter 83A and Chapters 116 to 121.
      (1)   Pursuant to KRS 83A.045, elections for city officers shall
hereinafter be non-partisan elections as provided in the afore described
statute and as further set forth and governed by KRS 83A.050, 83A.165, 83A.170,
and 83A.175.
      (2)   As authorized by KRS 83A.045(2)(b), the city shall forgo conducting
a nonpartisan primary election for the nomination of candidates to city office,
regardless of the number of candidates running for each office, as such the
non-partisan election for the nomination of candidates to elected city offices
is hereby eliminated, same to take effect as of the effective date of this
section.
      (3)   All candidates for elected city offices shall file their nomination
papers with the County Clerk not earlier than the first Wednesday after the
first Monday in November of the year preceding the year which the office will
appear on the ballot and not later than the first Tuesday after the first
Monday in June preceding the date fixed by KRS Chapter 118 for holding the
regular election for the office. Signatures for nomination papers shall not be
affixed on the document to be filed prior to the first Wednesday after the
first Monday in November of the year preceding the year in which the office
will appear on the ballot. (KRS 83A.045(2)(b))
      (4)   All nomination papers shall be filed not later than 4:00 p.m.
prevailing local time when filed on the last day when such papers are permitted
to be filed.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) of this section by ordinance, except that no change
shall be made earlier than five (5) years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and Commissioners may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
two hundred forty (240) days preceding the regular election for that office,
except in the event of a vacancy in the office.
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
(Am. Ord. 2017-12, passed 10-2-17; Am. Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-21-22)
Statutory reference:
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080(3),(4)
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
§ 31.21 MAYOR; MAYOR PRO TEM.
   (A)   Election; term of office.  The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Mayor shall be a
resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her election.
His or her term of office shall begin on the first day of January following his
or her election and shall be for four (4) years and until his or her successor
qualifies. If a person is elected or appointed as Mayor in response to a
vacancy and serves less than four (4) calendar years, then that period of
service shall not be considered for purposes of re-election a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least twenty-one (21) years of
age, shall be a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city
throughout his or her term of office.
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, the Commission
shall fill the vacancy within thirty (30) days. If for any reason, any vacancy
in the office of Mayor is not filled within thirty (30) days after it occurs,
the Governor shall promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified
person who shall serve for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(1), (2), (6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Commission may vote for himself. (KRS 83A.040(2)(b))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his successor. (KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Commission. The resignation shall be effective at
the next regular or special meeting of the city legislative body occurring
after the date specified in the written letter of resignation. (KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Commission shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy. (KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Commission shall elect from among its members an
individual to preside over meetings of the City Commission during any vacancy
in the office of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Commission and may
vote in all proceedings.
      (2)   The Mayor is responsible for all city administration. This includes
supervising all staff members administratively and evaluating performance
annually. While staff reports administratively to the Mayor, staff services all
Commissioners and city committees. The city hereby adopts the table of
administrative staff attached to Ordinance 2021-03 and sets forth the authority
of supervision for the city administration. Additionally, the Mayor has up to
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) spending authority for administrative
purposes; anything above this amount requires City Commission approval.
      (3)   The Mayor is responsible for developing each city contract. This
includes contracts for City Attorney, City Engineer, lawn cutting, garbage
collection. The Mayor shall solicit staff and committee assistance in said
development. Each developed city contract is then brought to the City
Commission for its final approval.
      (4)   When contractors and/or land owners approach the city about
developing specific properties on a confidential basis, the Mayor, Economic
Development Committee (EDC) Chairman, and the City Administrator will work
together to move said development forward. When it is ready for publication,
then the EDC Committee will work to move the project to completion.
   (E)   Mayor Pro Tem.
      (1)   The Commission shall designate one (1) City Commissioner to serve
as Mayor Pro Tem. The Mayor Pro Tem shall act for the Mayor whenever the Mayor
is unable to attend to the duties of his or her office and he or she shall then
possess all rights, powers, and duties of Mayor.
      (2)   If the disability of the Mayor to attend to his or her duties
continues for sixty (60) consecutive days, the office of Mayor may be declared
vacant by a majority vote of the Commission membership, and the provisions of
division (C) above shall apply.
(KRS 83A.140(4))
   (F)   Succession of Office of Mayor in the event of absence or disability.
      (1)   When the absence or disability of the Mayor of the city shall
prevent his or her service in the office during a national, state or local
emergency, the duties and responsibilities of the Mayor shall be administered
temporarily by the Mayor Pro Tem, as set forth in KRS 83A.140.
      (2)   If neither the Mayor nor the Mayor Pro Tem is able to serve in the
Office of the Mayor by reason of absence or disability, then the duties of the
Office of the Mayor shall be assumed temporarily by a member of the City
Commission, in order of seniority, as set forth in KRS 83A.140.
(Ord. 03-002, passed 6-9-03; Am. Ord. 2005-003, passed 4-11-05; Am. Ord. 2007-
007, passed 7-9-07; Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 2-1-21; Am. Ord. 2023-10, passed
9-6-23; Am. Ord. 2024-08, passed 6-3-24)
§ 31.22 COMMISSIONERS.
   For provisions concerning the City Commission, see
Chapter 32.
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office;
      (4)   Bond, if required; and
      (5)   Compensation, which may be specifically established or set by
reference to another ordinance in which the compensation is specifically
established.
   (B)   All nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Commission.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Commission at will
unless otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (D)   The following are nonelected city offices:
      (1)   City Clerk.
      (2)   City Treasurer.
      (3)   City Administrative Officer.
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 2-2-15)
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1),(2)
§ 31.36 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   The office of the City Clerk may, by ordinance, be combined with any
other nonelected city office by inclusion of the title and duties of such
office.
   (C)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk shall include, but are
not limited to the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the "official custodian" or
"custodian" pursuant to KRS 61.870 through 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used;
      (4)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail or electronically
submit to the Department for Local Government a list containing current city
information including but not limited to the following:
         (a)   The correct name, telephone number, and electronic mail address
of the mayor, legislative body members, and the correct name, telephone number,
and electronic mail address for the city’s appointed officials or employees who
are serving in the following roles or substantially similar roles as of January
1 of each year:
            1.   City Clerk;
            2.   City Treasurer or Chief Financial Officer;
            3.   City Manager or Administrator;
            4.   City Attorney;
            5.   Human Resources Director;
            6.   Police Chief;
            7.   Fire Chief;
            8.   Public Works Director;
            9.   Risk Manager;
            10.   Information Technology Manager;
            11.   Public Relations or Communications Officer; and
            12.   Planning and Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for city hall, and
telephone number of the city hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; and
      (5)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk by statute or ordinance.
      (6)   Once the information required to be reported under division (C)(4)
of this section is compiled by the Department for Local Government, the
department shall forward one electronic copy of the compiled information to the
Legislative Research Commission.
(KRS 83A.085)
   (D)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City
Commission from time to time as set forth in §
31.03.
   (E)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk unless such
person has taken the oath required by section 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond, if required, with corporate
surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and conditioned upon the
performance of the duties specified herein
§ 31.37 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   The office of City Treasurer is hereby established.
   (B)   The City Commission shall appoint a City Treasurer who shall be the
custodian of all funds of the city. The City Commission may remove the City
Treasurer at will unless otherwise provided by statute or ordinance. He shall
have graduated from an accredited high school and shall be chosen on the basis
of his secretarial and accounting skills.
   (C)   The City Treasurer shall have and exercise all powers and duties
assigned to him by statute, this chapter, and such other municipal
responsibilities delegated from time to time. He shall advise the City
Commission and all other city officers and employees in all financial matters
pertaining to their municipal duties or employment or affecting the interests
of the city. He shall collect, keep safe, promptly deposit, and account for all
city revenues and moneys from all sources; shall maintain accurate and complete
records of all city financial transactions according to accepted accounting
standards; and shall submit summary statements of receipts and disbursements
monthly to the City Commission. He shall prepare and maintain payroll records
for all city officers and employees, verify the public purpose of and the
city's legal obligation for all disbursements from city funds, pay all claims
and accounts against the city approved by the City Commission, and sign all
checks authorized to be issued against city funds.
   (D)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Treasurer unless such
person has taken the oath required by section 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, and has provided a bond, if required, with corporate
surety authorized to transact business in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and
conditioned upon the performance of the duties specified herein.
   (E)   The compensation of the City Treasurer shall be in an amount to be
established by the City Commission by ordinance.
§ 31.38 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the position of the City Attorney and
shall from time to time retain a person for such services and for such periods
of time as it deems necessary.
   (B)   The City Attorney shall attend all regular meetings of the City
Commission, shall advise the Commission in all legal proceedings, legal
matters, or matters of litigation, shall possess all the necessary powers and
authority to carry out the functions of this office as conferred on the City
Attorney by law, and shall perform all other duties as required by the
Commission.
   (C)   Compensation for the City Attorney shall be in the amount as
established by the City Commission by resolution.
   (D)   The City Attorney shall be employed as an independent contractor.
(Am. Ord. 2015-02, passed 2-2-15)
§ 31.39 [RESERVED].
§ 31.40 CITY ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby created the Office of City
Administrative Officer for the city, pursuant to K.R.S. 83A.090.
   (B)   Qualifications. The qualifications for this office shall include but
not be limited to professional training and experience in administration
sufficient to ensure competence.
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities.
      (1)   The City Administrative Officer shall report directly to the Mayor.
The Mayor shall take into account all input from City Commissioners in
supervising the City Administrator.
      (2)   The following administrative staff shall report to the City
Administrator: City Engineer, Administrative Assistant, and Social Events
Coordinator. The City Attorney and City Clerk/Treasurer shall report directly
to the Mayor. The City Administrator shall hire, train, evaluate performances,
and oversee disciplinary actions for the administrative staff.
      (3)   Project duties and responsibilities of this office shall include
but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   Coordinates special projects assigned by the Mayor;
         (b)   The Mayor and the City Commission identify and prioritize
special projects to be completed and set the executional scope and objectives
for all identified and prioritized projects;
         (c)   The City Administrator is to be Project Coordinator for each
assigned project to insure all projects objectives are effectively completed;
         (d)   The City Administrator will hire, if necessary, private
contractors/consultants to assist in special projects. City Administrator will
recruit volunteers to assist in special projects;
         (e)   The City Administrator will present proposals as to how he/she
will execute requested special projects. Proposals will lay out and define how
special projects will be executed, completion time frames, phase objectives,
and project costing. City Commission has to approve project proposals before
City Administrator can begin executing projects; and
         (f)   The Mayor and the City Commission will evaluate Special Project
success by determining whether or not project phase objectives were met in a
timely and cost effective manner.
      (4)   Assist the Mayor and City Commission with the continuous five (5)
year fiscal strategic planning:
         (a)   Participate in continuous five year fiscal strategic planning,
and monitor annual City Budget reporting status at each City Commission
meeting.
         (b)   Calculate project costs and lists with appropriate committees
for budgeting purposes, maintain complete records and makes reports as
requested, and acts as head procurement officer.
         (c)   Keeps City Commission apprised of developments at the state and
federal level that impact the city, monitor pending legislation for impact on
the city, and oversee compliance with new legislation; and
         (d)   Seek and administer research grants for the city.
      (5)   Management duties and responsibilities of this office shall include
but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   Serve as a liaison between city staff, the Mayor and the City
Commission;
         (b)   Attend all meetings of the City Commission and brief Commission
Members on pending agenda items and other city issues;
         (c)   Respond to inquiries and provide the Mayor and Commission
Members with information on the status of city operations and projects;
         (d)   Provide analysis and administrative support to the Mayor and
Commission Members to make informed policy decisions;
         (e)   Provide support for all committees and boards established by the
city;
         (f)   Acts as a liaison between the Mayor and Commission and
Department/Committee Chairs; and
         (g)   Investigates legislative issues and coordinates agenda with
Mayor for the City Commission Meetings.
      (6)   Directs and manages the day-to-day/managerial operations of the
city:
         (a)   Establishes policies and procedures for the overall city
operations;
         (b)   Provides direction to all city functions falling under the
authority of the City Commission and resolves any policy problems;
         (c)   Identifies, monitors, and evaluates progress towards goals and
objectives of the administration;
         (d)   Receives and resolves Union resident complaints;
         (e)   Acts as Public Relations Officer for the city;
         (f)   Manage the Community Building (inspection after rentals, review
and authorize paperwork); and
         (g)   Work with the City Attorney on negotiating contracts for various
city services.
      (7)   Oversees professional contractors and/or consultants providing
services for city projects:
         (a)   Establishes and maintains effective working relationships with
contractors or service providers, included but not limited to water and
sanitation districts, trash collection provider, public safety departments,
City Engineer, City Attorney, and Planning and Zoning;
         (b)   Works with developers and private sector businesses to ensure
conformance with City Ordinances, Codes, and comprehensive plan;
         (c)   Participates in the evaluation and selection of contractors/
consultants;
         (d)   Interfaces with and monitors the contractors/consultants to
ensure timely and quality completion of project;
         (e)   Facilitates cooperation with the project throughout the
organization; and
         (f)   Provides information and support as needed.
      (8)   Represents the Mayor, City Commission, and the City at various
meetings, functions and events:
         (a)   Serves as a liaison to various civic or governmental
organizations and committees, task forces, boards, and commissions, e.g.
Northern Kentucky City/County Managers' Association, Municipal Government
League, etc.;
         (b)   Confers regularly with officials from the municipalities, school
board, chamber of commerce, economic development agencies, and other community
groups; and
         (c)    Participate in discussions and decisions and keeps the City
Commission apprised of activities.
   (D)   Compensation. The compensation for the City Administrative Officer for
the City of Union, Kentucky shall be set at sixty thousand dollars ($60,000.00)
annually, effective July 10, 2017; in addition, City Administrative Officer
shall receive retirement and other benefits.
   (E)   Oath of Office. The City Administrative Officer shall take an Oath of
Office as required under §
31.01 of the City of Union, Kentucky Code of Ordinances.
   (F)   Term. The term of employment will be for a two year period with a non-
competition provision.
(Ord. 2014-009, passed 7-7-14; Am. Ord. 2015-01, passed 2-2-15; Am. Ord. 2015-
17, passed 9-8-15; Am. Ord. 2017-09, passed 7-5-17)
MISCELLANEOUS OFFICIALS
§ 31.55 CITY EVENTS COORDINATOR.
   (A)   There is hereby created the position of City Events Coordinator.
   (B)   The qualifications for this position shall include, but not be limited
to, professional training and experience in coordinating events and maximizing
the use of city assets for the benefit of the citizens of Union, Kentucky.
   (C)   The Events Coordinator may be provided with assistance of such other
persons as the legislative body directs and are provided for in the annual
budget.
   (D)   The duties and responsibilities of this position shall include, but
are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Advise the executive authority of the city in developing events for
the city, including, but limited to, the Union Towne Plan;
      (2)   Have major responsibilities for preparation and administration of
grant applications;
      (3)   Manage, coordinate and have a continuing direct relationship with
operating department heads on implementation and administration of development
plans;
      (4)   To coordinate and manage the development of the city’s Firehouse/
Community Center;
      (5)   Act as the liaison between the City Visioning Committee and all
other governmental agencies; and
      (6)   The City Events Coordinator shall carry out all additional duties
lawfully delegated by appropriate order of the executive authority.
   (E)   Compensation for this position shall be no greater than $15,000 per
annum unless changed by a salary ordinance
(Ord. 2008-015, passed 1-12-09)
§ 31.56 COMMUNICATIONS AND OPERATIONS DIRECTOR.
   (A)   There is hereby created a full-time position of Communications and
Operations Director for the City of Union, Kentucky.
   (B)   The qualifications for this position shall include, but not be limited
to, the principles of modern public administration, ability to establish and
maintain effective working relationships with employees, other departments,
officials and the public and the ability to communicate effectively verbally
and in writing, a strong understanding of the use of the Internet, websites,
the ability to use all social media, including but not limited to E-Mail,
Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.
   (C)   (1)   The duties and responsibilities of this position shall include,
but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Assists under the general supervision of the City Administrative
Officer;
         (b)   Assists with Communications Committee;
         (c)   Greets visitors to the city building and answers questions where
applicable;
         (d)   May attend regular and special Commission meetings;
         (3)   Manage existing communication platforms including the website,
Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and e-mail;
         (f)   Develop and manage the website;
         (g)   Explore and develop future communication platforms in
conjunction with the Communications Committee, Economic Development Committee
and City Administrator;
         (h)   Recruit and work with any outside executional communication
suppliers, i.e. be their contact person to the Communications Committee, other
city committees, Mayor/City Commissioners, and City Administrator;
         (i)   Work with outside news media to provide Communication Committee
press releases and other communication pieces;
         (j)   Write the initial draft of the City Commission meeting minutes;
then pass it to the City Clerk, City Administrator, and Mayor for final
approval;
         (k)   Coordinate city events;
         (l)   Performs other duties as directed and necessary;
         (m)   Special projects conducted for the CAO and Mayor;
         (n)   Will work a minimum of 35 hours per week;
      (2)   The selection guidelines for this position are as follows: formal
application, rating of education and experience; oral interview and reference
check; job related tests may be required.
      (3)   The duties listed hereinabove are intended only as illustrations of
the various types of work that may be performed. The omission of specific
statements of duties does not exclude them from the position if the work is
similar, related or a logical assignment to the position.
      (4)   The job description does not constitute an employment agreement
between the city and the employee and is subject to change by the city as the
needs of the city and the requirements of the job change.
   (D)   The minimum qualifications for the position are as follows:
      (1)   Post-Secondary education in journalism, marketing, informatics,
communications, public relations and/or a related field, training in computer
science and/or informatic procedures and one to three years experience in
website management and communications and/or content writing.
      (2)   Some related experience; or any equivalent combination of education
and progressively responsible experience with additional work experience
substituting for the required education on a year for year basis;
      (3)   Skill in operation of listed tools and equipment;
      (4)   Must be bondable;
      (5)   The applicant must possess a valid driver’s license or have the
ability to obtain one, prior to employment.
   (E)   (1)   The physical demands described herein are representative of
those that must be met by an employee to successfully perform the essential
functions of this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable
individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions.
      (2)   While performing the duties of the job, the employee is frequently
required to sit and talk or hear, use hands to finger, handle, feel or operate
objects, tools, or controls; and reach with hands and arms. The employee is
occasionally required to walk and must occasionally lift and/or move up to 25
pounds.
   (F)   Compensation for this position shall be set at $42,000 per annum,
unless amended by a salary ordinance. In addition, the Communications and
Operations Director will be entitled to retirement benefits through CERS.
(Ord. 2017-01, passed 3-6-17; Am. Ord. 2017-02, passed 3-6-17; Am. Ord. 2017-
08, passed 6-5-17)
CHAPTER 32: CITY COMMISSION
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
   
32.04   Duties of Commissioners for superintendence of city departments/
committees
Rules of Procedure
   
32.20   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.21   Meetings
   
32.22   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.35   One subject; title
   
32.36   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.37   Form of amendment
   
32.38   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.39   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.40   Official city records
   
32.41   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.42   Publication requirements
   
32.43   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.44   Periodic review required
   
32.45   Municipal orders
   
32.46   Proved by City Clerk; received in evidence
   
32.47   Legislative immunity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Commissioner shall be elected at-large
by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Commissioner
shall be a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her
election. Terms of office begin on the first day of January following his
election and shall be for two (2) years.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least eighteen (18) years of age,
shall be a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout
his or her term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation.  For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.03.
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one (1) or more vacancies on the Commission occur in a
way that one (1) or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall
within thirty (30) days fill the vacancies one (1) at a time, giving each new
appointee reasonable notice of his or her selection as will enable him or her
to meet and act with the remaining members in making further appointments until
all vacancies are filled. If vacancies occur in a way that all seats become
vacant, the Governor shall appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies
sufficient to constitute a quorum. Remaining vacancies shall be filled as
provided in this section. (KRS 83A.040(5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Commission shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Commission. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the official’s
electronic mail address and includes also the official’s handwritten signature.
The resignation shall be effective at the next regular or special meeting of
the city legislative body occurring after the date specified in the written
letter of resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the written
resignation shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or special
meeting of the legislative body occurring on or after its receipt. (KRS 83A.040
(7))
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs on the City Commission which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Commission shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy. (KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason, any vacancy in the
Commission is not filled within thirty (30) days after it occurs, the Governor
shall promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall
serve for the same period as if otherwise appointed. (KRS 83A.040(6))
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   All legislative, executive, and administrative authority of the city
is hereby vested in and exercised by the Commission. The Commission shall
enforce the Commission Plan, ordinances and orders of the city, and all
applicable statutes.
      (1)   The Commission shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (2)   The Commission shall supervise all departments of city government
and the conduct of all city officers and employees under its jurisdiction and
may require each department to make such reports to it as it finds necessary.
      (3)   The Commission shall report to the public on the condition and
needs of the city government as provided by ordinance, but not less than
annually.
(KRS 83A.140(3))
   (B)   In carrying out its duty to supervise the departments of city
government and the conduct of all city officers and employees under its
jurisdiction, the Commission may require any city officer or employee to
prepare and submit to it sworn statements regarding the performance of his
official duties. (KRS 83A.140(5))
   (C)   The Commission shall by ordinance establish all appointive offices and
the duties and responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and
regulations for the public health, safety, and welfare. (KRS 83A.140(8))
   (D)   The Commission shall promulgate procedures to insure orderly
administration of the functions of city government and compliance with statute,
ordinance, or order.
(KRS 83A.140(8))
   (E)   The Commission shall by ordinance provide for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate such funds in a budget which
shall provide for the orderly management of the city’s resources. (KRS 83A.140
(8))
§ 32.04 DUTIES OF COMMISSIONERS FOR SUPERINTENDENCE OF CITY DEPARTMENTS/
COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Communications Committee Chairman. The Communications Committee
Chairman is responsible to oversee all city communications and city event
marketing. This Commissioner is to work with the Director of Communications and
Operations to develop city communications and city events. The developed city
communications/event programs are then brought to the City Commission for final
approval. Additionally, the Communications Committee has up to one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) spending authority for communications/event purposes;
anything above this amount requires City Commission approval.
   (B)   Economic Development Committee (EDC) Chairman.
      (1)   The EDC Chairman is responsible to head the EDC. The EDC is
responsible to community input to the development of city growth, including
development of the city town plan. This Committee will provide input on
projects that have been publically announced and help guide the said projects
through the Boone County Planning Commission’s (BCPC) recommendations for city
approval.
      (2)   When contractors and/or land owners approach the city about
developing specific properties on a confidential basis, the Mayor, Economic
Development Committee (EDC) Chairman, and the City Administrator will work
together to move said development forward. When it is ready for publication,
then the EDC Committee will work to move the project to completion.
   (C)   Finance Committee Chairman. After the city budget submitted by the
Mayor to the City Commission, it is the responsibility of the Finance Committee
Chairman to review payments made by the City Clerk for each budget line item to
make sure they are correct and justified. Then, report monthly his or her
review to the City Commission.
   (D)   Public Works Committee (PWC) Chairman. The PWC Chairman is responsible
to head the PWC. The PWC is responsible for all city public work projects,
including street repair/maintenance/upkeep, lawn care, garbage pick, snow
removal, and any other public works projects.
The City Engineer (who works administratively for the City Administrator)
serves on this committee, Additionally, the PWC has up to one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) spending authority for public works purposes; anything above this
amount requires City Commission approval.
(Am. Ord. 2021-04, passed 2-1-21)
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.20 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Commission and may vote in
all proceedings.
(KRS 83A.140(4))
Cross-reference:
   Vacancy in office of Mayor; Mayor Pro Tem, see §
31.21
§ 32.21 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The City Commissioners for the City of Union, Kentucky shall
henceforth meet on the first Monday of each calendar month at 6:30 p.m. at the
Union City Building, located at 1843 Bristow Drive, Union, Boone County,
Kentucky, or at such other time and place as is duly designated by notice to
the public at large prior to the City Commission meeting with the following
exceptions:
      (1)   Commissioners meeting for September, 2025 shall be held on
Wednesday September 3, 2025 at 6:30 p.m.
   (B)   The City Commissioners shall also meet for a caucus meeting to be held
on the third Monday of each month for the purpose of discussing Committee
updates and to conduct in-depth discussions and information-gathering relative
to important city issues. Ordinances may receive their first reading at caucus
meetings, but voting on ordinances, municipal orders, resolutions and/or
motions shall not be taken at caucus meetings unless the issue has been placed
on the agenda of that meeting in advance. All meetings shall be held at the
City Building located at 1843 Bristow Drive, Union, Kentucky, commencing at 6:
30 p.m. prevailing time with the following exceptions:
      (1)   Caucus meeting for January, 2025 shall be held on Wednesday January
22, 2025 at 6:30 p.m.
      (2)   Caucus Meeting for February, 2025 shall be held on Wednesday
February 19, 2025 at 6:30 p.m.
(Ord. 89-003, passed 4-3-89; Am. Ord. 2009-003, passed 6-8-09; Am. Ord. 2018-
11, passed 9-4-18)
   (C)   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or a majority of the City
Commissioners. In the call, the Mayor or City Commissioners shall designate the
purpose, time, and place of the special meeting with sufficient notice for the
attendance of Commission members and for compliance with KRS Chapter 61.
   (D)   At a special meeting no business may be considered other than that set
forth in the designation of purpose.
   (E)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person responsible
for maintaining city records as provided under §
31.36 and by the officer presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.140(7)) (Am. Ord. 2008-007, passed 7-14-08; Am. Ord. 2021-01, passed
2-1-21; Am. Ord. 2021-10, passed 5-3-21; Am. Ord. 2022-02, passed 3-7-22; Am.
Ord. 2022-06, passed 4-4-22; Am. Ord. 2022-22, passed 12-5-22; Am. Ord. 2023-
15, passed 11-20-23; Am. Ord. 2024-21, passed 12-16- 24)
§ 32.22 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Commission
constitutes a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take
action.
(KRS 83A.060(6))
ORDINANCES
§ 32.35 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one (1) subject and shall have a title
that shall clearly state the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1))
§ 32.36 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled "Be it ordained by the City of Union."
(KRS 83A.060(2))
§ 32.37 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between shall be stricken
through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060(3))
§ 32.38 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance shall
be enacted until it has been read on two (2) separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Commission may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.42 shall be complied with within ten (10) days of the enactment of the
emergency ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(4),(7))
§ 32.39 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Commission may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or
nationally recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is
made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5))
§ 32.40 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Commission is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Commission shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Commission has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.36(C) and
32.41, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk and the presiding officer shall sign the official record
of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.41 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   As provided in §
31.36(C)(1), the City Clerk shall have full and complete responsibility for the
maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city.
   (B)   All ordinances adopted by the city shall, at the end of each month, be
indexed and maintained in the following manner:
      (1)   The city budget, appropriations of money and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
      (2)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and indexed in a composite index or
maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
      (3)   The City Clerk and Mayor shall affix their signatures to the
official record of each meeting.
(Ord. 82-008, passed 5-6-82)
§ 32.42 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.38(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
legislative body. If the legislative body elects to publish an ordinance in
summary, the summary shall be prepared and certified by an attorney licensed to
practice law in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9))
§ 32.43 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10))
§ 32.44 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five (5) years all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent,
and invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11))
§ 32.45 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   The Commission may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall
be in writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be
amended only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted
shall be maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the Commission has control.
(KRS 83A.060(12),(13))
§ 32.46 PROVED BY CITY CLERK; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of ordinances by
authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in evidence by any
state court without further proof of such ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14))
§ 32.47 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, City Commissioners shall be entitled to the
same immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15))
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
   
33.06      Expenditures by City Administrative Officer
Improvements
   
33.10   Definitions
   
33.11   Financing of improvements
   
33.12   Apportionment of cost
   
33.13   Comprehensive report required
   
33.14   Public hearing required
   
33.15   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.16   Affected owner may contest
   
33.17   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.18   Effect of additional property or change in financing
Investment Policy
   
33.25   General policy
   
33.26   Scope
   
33.27   Investment objectives
   
33.28   Investment authority
   
33.29   Prudent person rule
   
33.30   Authorized investments
   
33.31   Diversification of investments
   
33.32   Authorized financial dealers and institutions
   
33.33   Safekeeping and custody
   
33.34   Collateral
   
33.35   Investment reporting
Procurement
   
33.45   Adoption of Model Procurement Code
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an encumbrance
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010)
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. No money shall
be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund, except in accordance
with a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Monies held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one (1) fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Commission.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in such form and detail as is
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to the Commission not later than thirty (30) days prior to the beginning of the
fiscal year it covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the
governmental goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain
important features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the
reasons for stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs,
and appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   The Commission may adopt the budget ordinance making
appropriations for the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and
proper, whether greater or less than the sums recommended in the budget
proposal. The budget ordinance may take any form that the Commission finds most
efficient in enabling it to make the necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one (1) fiscal year in violation of
Section 157 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated, for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   The Commission may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance’s adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Commission. Such responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to the Commission of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. Such reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
(3) months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer, or employee of any city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, express or implied, beyond such existing
appropriations are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond,
certificate, or warrant for the payment of money by the city in any way to any
extent, beyond the balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the city shall,
after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund of the city to be audited
by the Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified public accountant. The city
shall forward an electronic copy of the audit report to the Kentucky Department
for Local Government for information purposes by not later than April 1
immediately following the fiscal year being audited.
   (B)   If the city, for any fiscal year receives and expends, from all
sources and for all purposes, less than one hundred fifty thousand dollars
($150,000.00), and has no long-term debt, whether general obligation or revenue
debt, it shall not be required to audit each fund of the city for that
particular fiscal year. In addition, the city shall:
      (1)   Annually prepare a financial statement in accordance with KRS
424.220 and shall, not later than October 1 following the conclusion of the
fiscal year, forward one (1) electronic copy to the Kentucky Department for
Local Government for information purposes; and
      (2)   If exempted under this section for more than four (4) consecutive
fiscal years after July 1, 2022, have prepared an attestation engagement
covering the fourth fiscal year in which the city qualified for an exemption
under this section. An attestation engagement completed pursuant to this
section shall be:
         (a)   Prepared by an independent certified public accountant or by the
Auditor of Public Accounts pursuant to a contract with the city using generally
accepted attestation standards as promulgated by the American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants and any additional procedures established by the
Department for Local Government through administrative regulation;
         (b)   Completed by no later than March 1 immediately following the
conclusion of the fiscal year in which in the attestation engagement is
required;
         (c)   Submitted to the Department for Local Government as one (1)
electronic copy no later than April 1 after its completion;
         (d)   Advertised to the public within thirty (30) days of its
completion by causing the publication of a legal display advertisement of not
less than six (6) column inches in a newspaper qualified under KRS 424.120
stating that the attestation has been prepared and copies have been provided to
each local newspaper of general circulation, each news service, and each local
radio and television station which has on file with the city a written request
to receive copies of financial statements under KRS 424.220. Any city
advertising under this section shall be exempt from publishing its financial
statement under KRS 424.220(6)(b) for any year in which it is required to have
an attestation engagement completed; and
         (e)   Provided to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request for
review of the final report and all related work papers and documents regarding
the attestation engagement.
   (C)   If the city is required by another provision of law to audit its funds
more frequently or more stringently than is required by this section, the city
shall also comply with the provisions of that law.
   (D)   The Department for Local Government shall, upon request, make
available electronic copies of the audit reports and financial statements
received by it under divisions (A) and (B) of this section to the Legislative
Research Commission to be used for the purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975 or to the
Auditor of Public Accounts.
   (E)   Each city required by this section to conduct an annual or biennial
audit shall enter into a written contract with the selected auditor. The
contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall
include but not be limited to requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor shall be employed to examine the basic financial
statements which shall include the government-wide and fund financial
statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual or biennial city audit
report an examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to
the city under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification
with the annual or biennial audit report that the funds were expended for the
purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted government auditing standards which include tests of the accounting
records and auditing procedures considered necessary in the circumstances.
Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal funds, appropriate
state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor’s opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit.
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the City Council at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified accountant’s work papers upon request.
   (F)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to a
city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (G)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the city legislative body, publish an advertisement, in accordance with KRS
Chapter 424, containing:
      (1)   The auditor’s opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules-Major Funds,” which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at city hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from city hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)    A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed twenty-five cents ($0.25) per page; and
      (6)    A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220, when a financial statement is required thereby,
are available to the public at no cost at the business address of the officer
responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (H)   Any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city may
bring an action in the Circuit Court to enforce the provisions of this section.
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00). In addition, any officer who fails to
comply with any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be
subject to a forfeiture of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00), in the discretion of the court, which may be
recovered only once in a civil action brought by any resident of the city or
owner of real property within the city. The costs of all proceedings, including
a reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident or property owner bringing
the action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful party.
(KRS 91A.040)
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Commission shall designate as the city's official depositories one
(1) or more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust
companies within the Commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an
official depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or
collateralized in accordance with 12 U.S.C. sec. 1823, to the extent uninsured,
by any obligations, including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Commission which
states the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the
payment and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization
shall be numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060)
§ 33.06 EXPENDITURES BY CITY ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER.
   The City Administrative Officer is hereby authorized to have the authority
to expend up to $1,000 on public works projects without first obtaining City
Commission approval, upon receiving written approval from the Director of
Public Works.
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 5-4-15)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.10 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all such properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by the Commission of the special benefit
received by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis,
front foot basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may
include consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different
classes of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received,
and other factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs, and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to such front footage of all such properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by such facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefited by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all such property.
(KRS 91A.210)
§ 33.11 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement, in whole or in part, through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes.
(KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
Statutory reference:
   Street improvements; alternate methods, see KRS Ch. 107
§ 33.12 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization. The
Commission may assess such property in the same manner as for privately owned
property or it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230)
§ 33.13 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240)
§ 33.14 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   (A)   After preparation of the report required by §
33.13, the city shall hold at least one (1) public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424,
and mailed to each affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt
requested, and shall include:
      (1)   The nature of the improvement;
      (2)   Description of area of the improvement;
      (3)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in
whole or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
      (4)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
      (5)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250)
§ 33.15 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within ninety (90) days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall
determine whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and
if it determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing
all necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.13 and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage the city shall
publish such ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by certified
mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to proceed with
the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to
the property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the
total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260)
§ 33.16 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within thirty (30) days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.15, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his property in the improvement, or the amount of his
assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by the
special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution are final and binding with respect to such
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270)
§ 33.17 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.16, or after favorable final judgment in any such action, whichever comes
later, the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the
action, including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment
thereon and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The
first installment may be apportioned so that the other payments will coincide
with payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Commission shall
exempt any benefited property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280)
§ 33.18 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.13 through
33.17 applies if additional property is included in the improvement or if
change is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property
may be included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof
without compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost
apportioned to any other property, or any other change may be made without such
compliance if all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290)
INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 33.25 GENERAL POLICY.
   It is the policy of the City of Union, Kentucky (“city”) to invest public
funds, consistent with the provisions of §
33.27, in a manner which will provide the highest investment return with the
maximum security of principal while meeting the daily cash flow demands of the
city and conforming to all state statutes and City regulations governing the
investment of public funds.
(Mun. Order 2015-13, passed 12-7-15)
§ 33.26 SCOPE.
   This investment policy applies to all financial assets held directly by the
city. These financial assets are accounted for in the city’s annual financial
report and include all moneys in the following funds:
   (A)   General Fund.
   (B)   Road Tax Fund.
   (C)   Sewer Maintenance and Replacement Fund.
   (D)   Municipal Road Aid Fund.
   (E)   Any other existing fund of the City.
   (F)   Any new fund created by the governing body.
(Mun. Order 2015-13, passed 12-7-15)
§ 33.27 INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES.
   The city’s primary investment objectives, in order of priority, are the
following:
   (A)   Safety. Safety of principal is the foremost objective of the city’s
investment program. Investments shall be undertaken in a manner that seeks to
ensure the preservation of capital in the overall portfolio. To attain this
objective, diversification is required in order that potential losses on
individual securities do not exceed the income generated from the remainder of
the portfolio.
   (B)   Liquidity. The city’s investment portfolio shall remain sufficiently
liquid to enable the city to meet all operating requirements which might be
reasonably anticipated.
   (C)   Return on investment. The city’s investment portfolio shall be
designed with the objective of attaining a market rate of return throughout the
budgetary and economic cycles, taking into account the city’s investment risk
constraints and the cash flow characteristics of the portfolio.
(Mun. Order 2015-13, passed 12-7-15)
§ 33.28 INVESTMENT AUTHORITY.
   Management responsibility for the city’s investment program is hereby
delegated to the City Treasurer. The City Treasurer shall have the authority,
subject to the disapproval of the governing body, to establish additional
specific written procedures for the operation of the investment program which
are consistent with this investment policy. The procedures shall include
explicit delegation of authority, if any, to persons responsible for investment
transactions. No person may engage in an investment transaction except as
provided under the terms of this policy and the procedures established by the
City Treasurer. The City Treasurer shall be ultimately responsible for all
transactions undertaken and shall establish a system of controls to regulate
the activities of subordinate officials and employees. The controls shall be
designed to prevent and control losses of public funds arising from fraud,
employee error, misrepresentation by third parties, unanticipated changes in
financial markets or imprudent actions by officers and employees. The City
Treasurer shall maintain all records related to the entity’s investment
program.
(Mun. Order 2015-13, passed 12-7-15)
§ 33.29 PRUDENT PERSON RULE.
   (A)   The actions of the (designated official) in the performance of his or
her duties as manager of the city’s funds shall be evaluated using the”prudent
person” standard. Investments shall be made with judgment and care under
prevailing circumstances which persons of prudence, discretion, and
intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for
speculation, but for investment considering the probable safety of their
capital as well as the probable income to be derived.
   (B)   The City Treasurer acting in accordance with written procedures and
exercising due diligence shall be relieved of personal responsibility for an
individual security’s performance, provided that deviations from expectations
are reported in a timely fashion to the governing body and appropriate action
is taken to control adverse developments.
(Mun. Order 2015-13, passed 12-7-15)
§ 33.30 AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS.
   The funds of the city available for investment shall be invested in
accordance with this policy and all applicable state statutes only in the
following types of investments instruments:
   (A)   Authorized investment instruments.
      (1)   Obligations of the United States and of its agencies and
instrumentalities, including obligations subject to repurchase agreements,
provided that delivery of these obligations subject to repurchase agreements is
taken either directly or through an authorized custodian.
      (2)   Obligations and contracts for future delivery or purchase of
obligations backed by the full faith and credit of the United States or a
United States government agency, including but not limited to:
         (a)   United States Treasury;
         (b)   Export-Import Bank of the United States;
         (c)   Farmers Home Administration;
         (d)   Government National Mortgage Corporation; and
         (e)   Merchant Marine bonds.
      (3)   Obligations of any corporation of the United States government,
including but not limited to:
         (a)   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation;
         (b)   Federal Farm Credit Banks;
         (c)   Bank for Cooperatives;
         (d)   Federal Intermediate Credit Banks;
         (e)   Federal Land Banks;
         (f)   Federal Home Loan Banks;
         (g)   Federal National Mortgage Association; and
         (h)   Tennessee Valley Authority.
      (4)   Certificates of deposit issued by or other interest-bearing
accounts of any bank or savings and loan institution which are insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or similar entity or which are
collateralized, to the extent uninsured, by any obligations permitted by
section 41.240(4) of the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
      (5)   Uncollateralized certificates of deposit issued by any bank or
savings and loan institution rated in one of the three highest categories by a
nationally recognized rating agency.
      (6)   Bankers’ acceptances for banks rated in one of the three highest
categories by a nationally recognized rating agency.
      (7)   Commercial paper rated in the highest category by a nationally
recognized rating agency.
      (8)   Bonds or certificates of indebtedness of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky and of its agencies and instrumentalities.
      (9)   Securities issued by a state or local government, or any
instrumentality or agency thereof, in the United States, and rated in one of
the three highest categories by a nationally recognized rating agency.
      (10)   Shares of mutual funds, each of which shall have the following
characteristics:
         (a)   The mutual fund shall be an open-end diversified investment
company registered under the Federal Investment Company Act of 1940, as
amended.
         (b)   The management company of the investment company shall have been
in operation for at least five years.
         (c)   All of the securities in the mutual fund shall be eligible
investments under this section.
   (B)   Limitations on investment transactions. With regard to the investments
authorized in this section, the following limitations shall apply:
      (1)   The amount of the city’s funds invested at any one time in the
categories of investments authorized in subsections A(5), A(6), A(7), and A(9)
of this section shall not exceed 20% of the total amount of funds invested on
behalf of the city.
      (2)   No investment shall be purchased for the city on a margin basis or
through the use of any similar leveraging technique.
(Mun. Order 2015-13, passed 12-7-15)
§ 33.31 DIVERSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   The city recognizes that some level of risk is inherent in any
investment transaction. Losses may be incurred due to issuer default, market
price changes, or closing investments prior to maturity due to unanticipated
cash flow needs. Diversification of the city’s investment portfolio by
institution, type of investment instrument, and term to maturity is the primary
method to minimize investment risk.
   (B)   The city’s funds shall be diversified by security type and
institution. With the exception of fully insured or fully collateralized
investments, and except for authorized investment pools, no more than 20% of
the city’s total investment portfolio shall be invested in a single security
type or with a single financial institution.
   (C)   To the extent possible, the city will attempt to match its investments
with anticipated cash flow requirements. Unless matched to a specific cash flow
need, the city’s funds should not, in general, be invested in securities
maturing more than three year(s) from the date of purchase. However, the city
may collateralize its repurchase agreements using longer-dated investments not
to exceed five years to maturity. Reserve funds may be invested in securities
exceeding three year(s), if maturity of the investments are made to coincide as
nearly as practicable with the expected use of the funds.
(Mun. Order 2015-13, passed 12-7-15)
§ 33.32 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL DEALERS AND INSTITUTIONS.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall maintain a list of financial institutions
authorized to provide investment services to the city. In addition, a list
shall be maintained of approved security brokers/dealers selected by
creditworthiness, who maintain an office in the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (B)   All financial institutions and broker/dealers who desire to provide
investment services to the city shall supply the City Treasurer with
information sufficient to adequately evaluate the institution and answer any
and all inquiries posed by the City Treasurer or the governing body, including
the following information:
      (1)   Audited financial statements.
      (2)   Regulatory reports on financial condition.
      (3)   Written memorandum of Agreement for the deposit of public funds or
trading resolution, as appropriate.
      (4)   Proof of National Association of Security Dealers certification and
proof of state registration.
      (5)   Any additional information considered necessary to allow the City
Treasurer to evaluate the creditworthiness of the institution.
   (C)   No financial institution shall be selected as a depository of city
funds if the city funds on deposit at any time will exceed 10% of the
institution’s capital stock and surplus. The City Treasurer shall evaluate the
financial capacity and creditworthiness of financial institutions and broker/
dealers prior to the placement of the city’s. The City Treasurer shall conduct
an annual review of the financial condition and registrations of financial
institutions and broker/dealers and, based on the review, make any
recommendations regarding investment policy or program changes determined to be
necessary.
(Mun. Order 2015-13, passed 12-7-15)
§ 33.33 SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   (A)   To protect against potential fraud and embezzlement, investment assets
shall be secured through third-party custody and safekeeping procedures. Bearer
instruments shall be held only through third-party institutions. The City
Treasurer and any other officers or employees of the city authorized to engage
in investment transactions shall be bonded in an amount established by the
governing body.
   (B)   Collateralized securities, such as repurchase agreements shall be
purchased using the delivery vs. payment procedure. Money market mutual funds
used for investments must provide for independent custodians of their
portfolios and delivery vs. payment on their portfolio securities. The
safekeeping procedures utilized in the city’s investment program shall be
reviewed annually by the independent auditor.
(Mun. Order 2015-13, passed 12-7-15)
§ 33.34 COLLATERAL.
   (A)   Except as set forth in subsection (B) of this section, it is the
policy of the city to require that all cash and investments maintained in any
financial institution named as a depository be collateralized. In order to
anticipate market changes and provide a level of security for all funds, the
collateralization level shall be 100% of the market value of principal, plus
accrued interest. Collateral shall always be held by an independent third-party
custodian with whom the city has a current custodial agreement. A clearly
marked evidence of ownership (safekeeping receipt) must be supplied to the city
and retained by the City Treasurer. The right of collateral substitution is
hereby granted.
   (B)   Subject to the following conditions, the City Treasurer may invest
funds in uncollateralized certificates of deposit:
      (1)   The City Treasurer may invest in uncollateralized certificates of
deposit only with the specific approval of the governing body.
      (2)   The uncollateralized certificates of deposit must be issued by a
bank or savings and loan institution rated in one of the three highest
categories by a nationally recognized rating agency.
      (3)   The amount of funds invested in collateralized certificates of
deposit shall not exceed 20% of the city’s total investment portfolio.
      (4)   The maximum term to maturity of uncollateralized certificates of
deposit shall not exceed two years.
(Mun. Order 2015-13, passed 12-7-15)
§ 33.35 INVESTMENT REPORTING.
   The City Treasurer shall prepare and submit to the governing body a annual
report regarding the status of the entity’s investment program. As to each
investment, the report shall include the following information:
   (A)   Name of financial institution from which the investment was purchased
or in which assets are deposited.
   (B)   Type of investment.
   (C)   Certificate or other reference number, if applicable.
   (D)   Percentage yield on an annualized basis.
   (E)   Purchase date, purchase price, and maturity date.
   (F)   Current market value of the investment.
(Mun. Order 2015-13, passed 12-7-15)
PROCUREMENT
§ 33.45 ADOPTION OF MODEL PROCUREMENT CODE.
   The city hereby adopts the provisions of KRS 45A.345 through 45A.460, as
part of its contract bidding process, a copy of which is attached to Ordinance
No. 01-2019 as Exhibit “A” and is incorporated by reference herein.
(Ord. 01-2019, passed 4-1-19)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.05   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.06   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.07   Public records not immediately available
   
34.08   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.09   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.10   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.11   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.12   Format of copies
   
34.13   Fees for copies
   
34.14   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
34.15   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
34.16   Public records protected from disclosure
   
34.17   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   CITY. The city government of this city.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its news
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   CUSTODIAN. The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records. The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of
most of the public records of this city is the City Clerk.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN. The chief administrative officer or any other officer or
employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care, and
keeping of public records, regardless of whether such records are in his actual
personal custody and control. The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall be the
Mayor.
   PERSON. A human being who makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. The city, including its legislative body and every officer,
department and division of the city; every entity created by authority of the
city; any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council or agency created and controlled by the city; and
any interagency body in which the city participates.
   PUBLIC RECORDS. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of
or retained by the public agency. PUBLIC RECORDS shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for the public agency that are not related to
functions, activities, programs, or operations funded by the public agency nor
any records that may be excluded by §
34.16.
   REQUEST. An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the agency.
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency’s computer system.
   SOFTWARE consists of the operating system, application programs, procedures,
routines, and subroutines such as translators and utility programs, but does
not include that material which is prohibited from disclosure or copying by a
license agreement between a public agency and an outside entity which supplied
the material to the agency.
   RESIDENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH.
      (1)   An individual residing in the Commonwealth;
      (2)   A domestic business entity with a location in the Commonwealth;
      (3)   A foreign business entity registered with the Secretary of State;
      (4)   An individual that is employed and works at a location or locations
within the Commonwealth;
      (5)   An individual or business entity that owns real property within the
Commonwealth;
      (6)   Any individual or business entity that has been authorized to act
on behalf of an individual or business entity defined in divisions (1) to (5)
of this section; or
      (7)   A news-gathering organization as defined in KRS 189.635(9)(b)1.a.
to e.
(KRS 61.870)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.05 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of this city
shall make a request for inspection at the office of the City Clerk during
regular office hours, except during legal holidays. The official custodian, or
the custodian acting under the authority of the official custodian, may require
a request to inspect public records to be in writing, signed by the applicant
and with the applicant’s name printed legibly on the application. A written
request to inspect public records may be presented by hand delivery, mail or
via facsimile, if one is available.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person’s request is in compliance
with this chapter and the open records law, and the requested public records
are immediately available, the custodian shall deliver the records for
inspection. A person may inspect public records at the designated office of the
city during the regular office hours, or in appropriate cases, by receiving
copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the city,
suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk or
in another office of the city as determined by the official custodian or
custodian for the inspection. No person shall remove original copies of public
records from the offices of the city without the written permission of the
official custodian of the record. When public records are inspected at the city
offices, the person inspecting the records shall have the right to make
abstracts and memoranda of the public records and to obtain copies of all
written public records. When copies are requested, the custodian may require
advance payment of the prescribed fee.
   (D)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee.
§ 34.06 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk does not have custody or control of the public record or
records requested, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant and shall furnish
the name and location of the official custodian of the agency’s public records.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 34.07 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed five (5) days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays) from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on
which the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5))
§ 34.08 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
§ 34.09 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within five (5) days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays,
and legal holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
five (5)-day period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or
in part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under his authority and shall constitute final
agency action.
(KRS 61.880)
§ 34.10 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
§ 34.11 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or in
which he is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate identification,
subject to the provisions of §
34.16 of these rules and regulations.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 34.12 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
34.16. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where appropriate.
If the applicant desires copies of public records other than written records,
the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or permit the
applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall ensure that
such duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than 8½ inches x 11 inches in at least one color on white paper, or for
electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard Code for
Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and the format conforms
to the requestor’s requirements, the public record may be provided in this
alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(1)-(3))
§ 34.13 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   The public agency may prescribe a reasonable fee for making copies of
nonexempt public records requested for use for noncommercial purposes which
shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of the
media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but not
including the cost of staff required. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request
of an individual or a group, the public agency may at its discretion provide
the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs
incurred.
   (B)   (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) of this section may be
based on one or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing, and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records;
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase, or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(3),(4))
Cross-reference:
   Fees for online access to public records, see §
34.15
§ 34.14 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
34.13;
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.15 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license, or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
34.13.
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 34.16 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except as provided in KRS
61.878(1) that no court shall authorize the inspection by any party of any
materials pertaining to civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the
Rules of Civil Procedure governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy.
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute.
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to the agency, or required
by an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records.
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS
Ch. 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (b)
above, shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
directed by statute.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(2) above.
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods.
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision.
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again.
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action. The exemptions provided by this subdivision
shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the
exercise of rights granted by this chapter.
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency.
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended.
      (11)   All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation.
      (12)   Public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly.
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Security and response needs assessments;
            5.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include but not be limited to information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage and gas systems.
            6.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division: detailed drawings, schematics,
maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and operating,
utility or security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied, leased
or maintained by a public agency; and
            7.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, TERRORIST ACT means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (a)5.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division, that public agency
shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS
61.880(1), to the executive director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law.
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapter 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited;
      (16)   Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Ch. 31.
      (17)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
      (18)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of:
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party;
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for a person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos.
      (19)   Records confidentially maintained by a law enforcement agency in
accordance with a wellness progress, including an early intervention system, as
described in KRS 15.409.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person. In addition, if any public record contains material which
is not excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
34.08.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge,
or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him or her. Such records
shall include, but not be limited to work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and preliminary and other
supporting documentation. A city employee, applicant, or eligible shall not
have the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to
ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by any agency.
   (E)   When material is made available pursuant to a request under this
section, the public agency shall not be required to make a copy of the
recording except as provided in KRS 61.169, and the requesting parties shall
not be limited in the number of times they may view the material.
(KRS 61.878)
§ 34.17 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the open
records law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
CHAPTER 34A: PUBLIC MEETINGS
Section
General
   
34A.01   Definitions
Public Meeting Requirements
   
34A.05   Meetings open to the public
   
34A.06   Requirements for closed sessions
   
34A.07   Public meeting schedules
   
34A.08   Special meetings
   
34A.09   Video teleconferences
   
34A.10   Enforcement
GENERAL
§ 34A.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   ACTION TAKEN. A collective decision, a commitment or promise to make a
positive or negative decision, or an actual vote by a majority of the members
of the governmental body.
(KRS 61.805(3))
   MEETING. All gatherings of every kind, including video teleconferences,
regardless of where the meeting is held, and whether regular or special and
informational or casual gatherings held in anticipation of or in conjunction
with a regular or special meeting.
(KRS 61.805(1))
   MEMBER. A member of the governing body of a public agency. MEMBER does not
include employees or licensees of the agency.
(KRS 61.805(4))
   PUBLIC AGENCY. Every city government board, commission, and authority; every
city council and council board, commission and committee; every school district
board, special district board, and municipal corporation; every city government
agency, including the policy- making board of an institution of education
created by or pursuant to state or local statute, executive order, ordinance,
resolution, or other legislative act; any body created by or pursuant to state
or local statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or other legislative
act in the legislative or executive branch of government; any entity when the
majority of its governing body is appointed by a PUBLIC AGENCY, as defined by
this section; a member or employee of a PUBLIC AGENCY, a state or local
officer, or any combination thereof; any board, commission, committee,
subcommittee, ad hoc committee, advisory committee, council or agency, except
for a committee of a hospital medical staff or a committee formed for the
purpose of evaluating the qualifications of public agency employees,
established, created, or controlled by a PUBLIC AGENCY as defined in this
section; an interagency body of two (2) or more public agencies where each
"public agency" is defined in this section.
(KRS 61.805(2))
   VIDEO TELECONFERENCE. One (1) meeting, occurring in two (2) or more
locations, where individuals can see and hear each other by means of video and
audio equipment.
(KRS 61.805(5))
PUBLIC MEETING REQUIREMENTS
§ 34A.05 MEETINGS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
   (A)   All meetings of a quorum of the members of any public agency at which
any public business is discussed or at which any action is taken by the agency,
shall be public meetings, open to the public at all times, except for the
following:
      (1)   Deliberations on the future acquisition or sale of real property by
a public agency, but only when publicity would be likely to affect the value of
a specific piece of property to be acquired for public use or sold by a public
agency;
      (2)   Discussions of proposed or pending litigation against or on behalf
of the public agency;
      (3)   Collective bargaining negotiations between public employers and
their employees or their representatives;
      (4)   Discussions or hearings which might lead to the appointment,
discipline, or dismissal of an individual employee, member, or student without
restricting that employee's, member's or student's right to a public hearing if
requested. This exception shall not be interpreted to permit discussion of
general personnel matters in secret;
      (5)   Discussions between a public agency and a representative of a
business entity and discussions concerning a specific proposal, if open
discussions would jeopardize the siting, retention, expansion, or upgrading of
the business;
      (6)   Local cabinet meetings and executive cabinet meetings;
      (7)   Deliberations of quasi-judicial bodies regarding individual
adjudications or appointments, at which neither the person involved, his
representatives, nor any other individual not a member of the agency's
governing body or staff is present, but not including any meetings of planning
commissions, zoning commissions, or boards of adjustment;
      (8)   That portion of a meeting devoted to a discussion of a specific
public record exempted from disclosure under KRS 61.878(1)(i). However, that
portion of any public agency meeting shall not be closed to a member of the
Kentucky General Assembly;
      (9)   Meetings which federal or state law specifically require to be
conducted in privacy; and
      (10)   Meetings which the Constitution provides shall be held in secret.
   (B)   Any series of less than quorum meetings, where the members attending
one or more of the meetings collectively constitute at least a quorum of the
members of the public agency and where the meetings are held for the purpose of
avoiding the requirements of subsection (A) of this section, shall be subject
to the requirements of subsection (A) of this section. Nothing in this
subsection shall be construed to prohibit discussion between individual members
where the purpose of the discussions is to educate the members on specific
issues.
(KRS 61.810)
§ 34A.06 REQUIREMENTS FOR CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   The following requirements shall be met as a condition for conducting
closed sessions by those public agencies authorized by §
34A.05(A) (1) and (4) except as (4) relates to students:
      (1)   Notice shall be given in regular open meetings of the general
nature of the business to be discussed in closed session, the reason for the
closed session, and the specific provision of §
34A.05 authorizing the closed session;
      (2)   Closed sessions may be held only after a motion is made and carried
by a majority vote in open, public session;
      (3)   No final action may be taken in closed session; and
      (4)   No matters may be discussed at a closed session other than those
publicly announced prior to convening the closed session.
   (B)   Public agencies and activities identified in §
34A.05(A) paragraphs (2), (3), (4), but only so far as (4) relates to students,
(5), (6), (7), (8), (9) and (10) are excluded from the requirements of
subsection (A) of this section.
(KRS 61.815)
§ 34A.07 PUBLIC MEETING SCHEDULES.
   All meetings of a public agency shall be held at specified times and places
which are convenient to the public, and all public agencies shall provide for a
schedule of regular meetings by ordinance, order, resolution, by laws or by
whatever other means may be required for the conduct of business of the public
agency. The schedule of regular meetings shall be made available to the public.
(KRS 61.820)
§ 34A.08 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided by subsection (F) of this section, special meetings
shall be held in accordance with the provisions of divisions (B), (C) and (D)
of this section.
   (B)   The presiding officer or a majority of the members of the public
agency may call a special meeting;
   (C)   The public agency shall provide written notice of the special meeting
containing the date, time, place of the special meeting and the agenda.
Discussions and action at the meeting shall be limited to items listed on the
agenda in the notice.
   (D)   (1)   As soon as possible, written notice shall be delivered
personally, transmitted by facsimile, or mailed to every member of the public
agency as well as each media organization which has filed a written request,
including a mailing address, to receive notice of special meetings. The notice
shall be received at least twenty-four (24) hours before the special meeting.
The public agency may periodically, but no more often than once in a calendar
year, inform media organizations that they will have to submit a new written
request or no longer receive written notice of special meetings until a new
written request is filed.
      (2)   A public agency may satisfy the requirements of division (1) of
this section by transmitting the written notice by electronic mail to public
agency members and media organizations that have filed a written request with
the public agency indicating their preference to receive electronic mail
notification in lieu of notice by personal delivery, facsimile machine, or
mail. The written request shall include the electronic mail address or
addresses of the agency member or media organization.
   (E)   As soon as possible, written notice shall also be posted in a
conspicuous place in the building where the special meeting will take place and
in a conspicuous place in the building which houses the headquarters of the
agency. The notice shall be posted at least twenty-four (24) hours before the
special meeting.
   (F)   In the case of an emergency which prevents compliance with the notice
requirements in this section, this subsection shall govern a public agency's
conduct of a special meeting. The special meeting shall be called pursuant to
subsection (B) of this section. The public agency shall make a reasonable
effort, under emergency circumstances, to notify the members of the agency,
media organizations which have filed a written request pursuant to this
section, and the public of the emergency meeting. At the beginning of the
emergency meeting, the person chairing the meeting shall briefly describe for
the record the emergency circumstances preventing compliance with the notice
requirements of this section. These comments shall appear in the minutes.
Discussion and action at the emergency meeting shall be limited to the
emergency for which the meeting is called.
(KRS 61.823)
§ 34A.09 VIDEO TELECONFERENCES.
   (A)   A public agency may conduct any meeting through video teleconference.
   (B)   Notice of a video teleconference meeting shall:
      (1)   Comply with the requirements of KRS 61.820 or 61.823 as
appropriate;
      (2)   Clearly state that the meeting will be a video teleconference;
      (3)   Provide specific information on how any member of the public or
media organization may view the meeting electronically; and
      (4)   In any case where the public agency has elected to provide a
physical location, or in any circumstance where two (2) or more members of the
public agency are attending a video teleconference meeting from the same
physical location, precisely identify a primary physical location of the video
teleconference where all members can be seen and heard and the public may
attend in accordance with KRS 61.840.
   (C)   The same procedure with regard to participation, distribution of
materials, and other matters shall apply in all video teleconference locations.
Members of the public agency who participate in a video teleconference shall
remain visible on camera at all times that business is being discussed.
   (D)   Any interruption in the video or audio broadcast of a video
teleconference at any location shall result in the suspension of the video
teleconference until the broadcast is restored.
   (E)   If a regular meeting is changed to a video conference, the meeting
shall remain a regular meeting if the meeting occurs on the same date and time
as originally scheduled and the public agency follows the provisions of KRS
61.823(4) to provide a notice that meets the requirements of division (B)(2) to
(4) of this section.
(KRS 61.826)
§ 34A.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced pursuant to KRS 61.846 and
61.848 for enforcing KRS 61.805 to 61.850.
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
Section
Property Tax
   
35.01   Tax levied
   
35.02   Due date; payment; delinquency
   
35.03   Collection procedures; lien for unpaid taxes
   
35.04   Disposition of funds
   
35.05   Ad valorem tax
Motor Vehicle Tax
   
35.20   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles
Bank Franchise and Local Deposit Tax
   
35.40   Tax levied
Abandoned Urban Property Tax
   
35.50   Definition
   
35.51   Tax levied
   
35.52   Classification of properties; notification; appeal
PROPERTY TAX
§ 35.01 TAX LEVIED.
   There is hereby levied upon real, personal, tangible, and mixed property
having a taxable situs within the city, as of January 1, a tax at the rate as
set from time to time by the city per thousand valuation on the said property
as that valuation is set forth in the records of the Boone County Property
Valuation Administrator.
(Ord. 95-009, passed 7-10-95; Am. Ord. 96-007, passed 9-16-96; Am. Ord. 97-007,
passed 10-6-97; Am. Ord. 98-005, passed 9-15-98; Am. Ord. 99-009, passed 10-4-
99; Am. Ord. 2000-008, passed 10-16-00; Am. Ord. 2001-005, passed 10-8-01; Am.
Ord. 2002-006, passed 10-14-02; Am. Ord. 2003-007, passed 10-13-03; Am. Ord.
2004-005, passed 10-11-04; Am. Ord. 2005-011, passed 10-10-05; Am. Ord. 2006-
008, passed 10-9-06; Am. Ord. 2007-010, passed 10-8-07; Am. Ord. 2008-010,
passed 10-13-08; Am. Ord. 2009-004, passed 6-8-09; Am. Ord. 2009-009, passed 9-
9-09; Am. Ord. 2010-006, passed 9-4-10; Am. Ord. 2011-007, passed 10-5-11; Am.
Ord. 2012-008, passed 9-4-12; Am. Ord. 2013-011, passed 9-3-13; Am. Ord. 2014-
014, passed 9-9-14)
Cross reference:
   Ad valorem tax rates, T.S.O.
IV
§ 35.02 DUE DATE; PAYMENT; DELINQUENCY.
   The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable on or before November 1.
All tax bills paid prior to October 31 shall be discounted two percent (2%) for
early payment. In the event the said taxes levied hereunder are not paid on or
before December 31, a ten percent (10%) penalty shall attach December 31.
Additionally, all delinquent taxes after November 30 shall bear interest at the
rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum until paid. In other words, all ad
valorem taxes shall be payable as follows:
      At a two percent (2%) discount if paid on or before October 1;
      At face value if paid between November 1 and November 30;
      Twelve percent (12%) interest shall accrue on all bills paid after
November 30;
      At a ten percent (10%) penalty if paid after December 31.
   City property taxes may be paid at the Warren S. Moore Union City Building
or mailed to the City of Union, 1843 Mt. Zion Road, Union, Kentucky 41091.
Those who pay by mail and wish to receive a receipt, should enclose a self-
addressed, stamped envelope.
(Ord. 95-009, passed 7-10-95; Am. Ord. 96-007, passed 9-16-96; Am. Ord. 2005-
011, passed 10-10-05; Am. Ord. 2006-008, passed 10-9-06; Am. Ord. 2007-010,
passed 10-8-07; Am. Ord. 2008-010, passed 10-13-08; Am. Ord. 2009-004, passed
6-8-09; Am. Ord. 2009-009, passed 9-9-09; Am. Ord. 2010-006, passed 9-4-10; Am.
Ord. 2011-007, passed 10-5-11; Am. Ord. 2012-008, passed 9-4-12; Am. Ord. 2013-
011, passed 9-3-13; Am. Ord. 2014-014, passed 9-9-14)
§ 35.03 COLLECTION PROCEDURES; LIEN FOR UNPAID TAXES.
   (A)   In order to secure the payment of the ad valorem taxes hereby levied
and assessed, and all penalties, interest, fees, commissions, charges and other
expenses, including court costs and attorneys fees, incurred by reason of any
delinquency in the payment thereof or the process of collection, the city has a
lien therefore upon the property upon which such taxes are hereby levied and
assessed; and such lien has priority over all other obligations or liabilities
for which the property is liable, except state and county taxes, with which it
has equal priority.
   (B)   The City Clerk is hereby authorized to send out bills to all property
owners of property located within the city upon which a tax is levied herein,
and the City Clerk is further authorized to receive and collect the payment of
such taxes. The City Clerk is hereby authorized to provide property information
to the City Attorney, who is authorized to record a real estate lien with the
Boone County Clerk for the unpaid taxes on all real property, and either the
City Clerk or City Attorney to release all liens with the Boone County Court
Clerk hereto filed wherein delinquent taxes have been paid. The Clerk shall on
the first Monday of each month pay over to the City Treasurer all amounts which
have been collected, and shall furnish the City Treasurer an accurate list of
property owners who have paid the taxes levied under this subchapter. After
March 1, the City Clerk shall furnish to the City Treasurer an accurate list of
property owners who have paid the taxes levied under this chapter. After March
1, the City Clerk shall furnish to the City Attorney a list of delinquent
taxpayers, specifying the name and address of the delinquent taxpayer(s), a
description of the property with applicable map numbers, and the amount of tax,
penalty and interest accrued in order that a lien may be filed against said
property at the Boone County Clerk's Office in Burlington, Kentucky.
(Ord. 95-009, passed 7-10-95; Am. Ord. 96-007, passed 9-16-96; Am. Ord. 2005-
011, passed 10-10-05; Am. Ord. 2006-008, passed 10-9-06; Am. Ord. 2007-010,
passed 10-8-07; Am. Ord. 2008-010, passed 10-13-08; Am. Ord. 2009-004, passed
6-8-09; Am. Ord. 2009-009, passed 9-9-09; Am. Ord. 2010-006, passed 9-4-10; Am.
Ord. 2011-007, passed 10-5-11; Am. Ord. 2012-008, passed 9-4-12; Am. Ord. 2013-
011, passed 9-3-13; Am. Ord. 2014-014, passed 9-9-14)
§ 35.04 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   The income derived from the revenue produced by this chapter shall be used
for one (1) or more of the following purposes:
   (A)   Police protection;
   (B)   Public works;
   (C)   General fund;
   (D)   Contingent; and
   (E)   Miscellaneous.
(Ord. 95-009, passed 7-10-95; Am. Ord. 2008-010, passed 10-13-08; Am. Ord.
2009-004, passed 6-8-09; Am. Ord. 2009-009, passed 9-9-09; Am. Ord. 2010-006,
passed 9-4-10; Am. Ord. 2011-007, passed 10-5-11; Am. Ord. 2012-008, passed 9-
4-12; Am. Ord. 2013-011, passed 9-3-13; Am. Ord. 2014-014, passed 9-9-14)
§ 35.05 AD VALOREM TAX.
   The City Commission of Union, Kentucky hereby authorizes the City Treasurer,
with the assistance of the City Attorney, to file in the appropriate court of
competent jurisdiction, an action to collect any ad valorem tax, penalty
interest, or any other charges related thereto, and to recover all court costs
and reasonable attorney fees incurred to collect same.
(Ord. 03-001, passed 4-14-03)
MOTOR VEHICLE TAX
§ 35.20 AD VALOREM TAXES ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   All ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall be collected by the Boone
County Clerk in accordance with KRS 134.800.
   (B)   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall become due and delinquent as
set forth in KRS 134.810 and any such taxes not paid by the date when they
become delinquent shall be subject to the penalty and interest specified in KRS
134.810.
Cross reference:
   Ad valorem tax rates, T.S.O.
IV
BANK FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX
§ 35.40 TAX LEVIED.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed on all financial institutions, as defined in
KRS Chapter 136, located within the corporate limits of the city for the 1996
tax year and all subsequent tax years, a franchise tax at the rate of 0.025% on
all deposits, as defined in KRS Chapter 136, maintained by such financial
institutions.
   (B)   For transition purposes, the 1996 tax year will be treated differently
in terms of collection of taxes than for all subsequent years. For the 1996 tax
year, the following timetable is hereby established:
      (1)   The city will issue tax bills to financial institutions no later
than May 1, 1997.
      (2)   Payment of the tax shall be due with a 2% discount by May 31, 1997,
or without discount by June 30, 1997.
   (C)   For all tax years subsequent to the 1996 tax year, the following
timetable is hereby established:
      (1)   The city will issue tax bills to financial institutions no later
than December 1 of each year.
      (2)   Payment of the tax shall be due with a 2% discount by December 31
of each year, or without discount by January 31 of each succeeding year.
   (D)   The city shall have a lien for taxes upon any and all property
assessed for taxes to the extent allowed under KRS 134.420.
   (E)   All taxes due in accordance with this section which are not paid
before June 30, 1997, for tax year 1996, or which are not paid before January
31 for all subsequent tax years shall be deemed delinquent and shall be subject
to a penalty of 10%, and shall bear interest at the rate of 12% per annum.
   (F)   All moneys collected pursuant to this section shall be paid in to the
general fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper expenditures as
determined by the City Commission.
(Ord. 96-006, passed - -96)
ABANDONED URBAN PROPERTY TAX
§ 35.50 DEFINITION.
   Abandoned urban property is established as a separate classification of real
property for the purpose of ad valorem taxation. As used herein, an ABANDONED
URBAN PROPERTY means any vacant structure or vacant or unimproved lot or parcel
of ground located within the boundaries of the city which has been vacant or
unimproved for a period of at least one (1) year and which:
   (A)   Because it is dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe, vermin infested or
otherwise dangerous to the safety of persons, is unfit for its intended use;
   (B)   By reason of neglect or lack of maintenance has become a place for the
accumulation of trash and debris, or has become infested with rodents or other
vermin; or
   (C)   Has been tax delinquent for a period of at least three (3) years.
(Ord. 2005-004, passed 5-9-05)
§ 35.51 TAX LEVIED.
   The rate of ad valorem taxation levied upon abandoned urban properties shall
be as set forth from time to time by the city per $100 of assessed value.
(Ord. 2005-004, passed 5-9-05)
§ 35.52 CLASSIFICATION OF PROPERTIES; NOTIFICATION; APPEAL.
   (A)   The Public Works Commissioner shall determine each year which
properties located within the city are abandoned urban properties, and shall
prepare and furnish a list thereof to both the City Clerk/Treasurer and the
Boone County Property Valuation Administrator prior to January 1 of each year.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) of this section, a
property classified by the Public Works Commissioner as abandoned urban
property as of January 1 shall be taxed as abandoned urban property for such
tax year. If the owner repairs, rehabilitates, or otherwise returns the
property to productive use so that the property is no longer abandoned urban
property, the owner shall notify the city, by and through its Clerk, which
shall, if it finds the property is no longer abandoned urban property, notify
the Boone County Property Valuation Administrator to strike the property from
the list of abandoned urban properties as of the succeeding January 1.
   (C)   No later than March 1 of each year, the Public Works Commissioner
shall mail, by regular first-class mail, to the owner(s) of each abandoned
urban property, as those name(s) are listed in the records of the Property
Valuation Administrator, a notice that the property has been classified as
abandoned urban property. The owner of any abandoned urban property who
believes that the property has been incorrectly classified may appeal said
classification to the Mayor of the city. Such appeal shall be in writing and
shall be made no later than April 1 of that year. The Mayor shall afford the
owner the opportunity for a hearing. If the Mayor finds that the property was
incorrectly classified as abandoned urban property, the Mayor shall cause the
property to be removed from the list of properties so classified.
(Ord. 2005-004, passed 5-9-05)
CHAPTER 36: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Department of Public Works
   
36.01   Established
   
36.02   Jurisdiction
Cross-reference:
   Emergency Medical Services Advisory Council, see T.S.O.
III
City Ethics Commission
   
36.20   Established
Economic Development Committee
   
36.30   Established
   
36.31   Membership
Communications Committee
   
36.40      Established
   
36.41      Membership
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
§ 36.01 ESTABLISHED.
   There shall be established hereby the Department of Public Works in the
city.
(Ord. 82-009, passed 6-3-82)
§ 36.02 JURISDICTION.
   The Department of Public Works shall have jurisdiction over the maintenance
of public areas within the city.
(Ord. 82-009, passed 6-3-82)
CITY ETHICS COMMISSION
§ 36.20 ESTABLISHED.
   For provisions concerning the City Ethics Commission, see §
37.05.
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
§ 36.30 ESTABLISHED.
   That there is hereby created an Economic Development Committee for the City
of Union, Kentucky.
(Ord. 2009-012, passed 1-4-10; Am. Ord. 2015-03, passed 2-2-15; Am. Ord. 2023-
04, passed 2-6-23)
§ 36.31 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Economic Development Committee shall consist of four (4) members;
said members being either a citizen of the city, or persons who own a business
in the city. All new members shall be appointed by the City Commission and
shall serve for a four (4) year term of appointment. The terms shall be
staggered.
      (1)   The following members are hereby appointed to serve on the Economic
Development Committee through December 31, 2023: Jim Collett and Doug Dawson.
      (2)   The following members are hereby appointed to serve on the Economic
Development Committee through December 31, 2025: Angie Scroggins and Jaime
Lyons.
   (B)   The Economic Development Committee shall meet as needed at the request
of the Mayor.
(Ord. 2009-012, passed 1-4-10; Am. Ord. 2015-03, passed 2-2-15; Am. Ord. 2023-
04, passed 2-6-23)
COMMUNICATIONS COORDINATOR
§ 36.40 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created a Communications Committee for the City of Union,
Kentucky.
(Ord. 2015-13, passed 7-6-15)
§ 36.41 MEMBERSHIP.
   That the Communications Committee for the City of Union, Kentucky shall
consist of six (6) members, said members comprised of professional volunteers
who are citizens of the city, or persons who own a business in the city. The
members shall be appointed by the Union City Commission and shall serve as
follows: said terms shall be staggered; as such three (3) original appointments
shall serve a two (2) year term and three (3) original appointments shall serve
a four (4) year term. All subsequent terms shall be for four (4) years.
(Ord. 2015-13, passed 7-6-15)
CHAPTER 37: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
   
37.01   Definitions
   
37.02   Standards of conduct
   
37.03   Financial disclosure
   
37.04   Nepotism
   
37.05   (Reserved)
   
37.06   Retention of records
   
37.07   Enforcement
   
37.08   When to file statements’ amended statements
Statutory reference:
   Mandatory municipal ethics ordinances, see KRS 65.003
§ 37.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF ETHICS. The Northern Kentucky Ethics Enforcement Committee as
created by the Northern Kentucky Regional Ethics Authority and vested by this
chapter with the responsibility of enforcing the requirements of the city's
code of ethics.
   BUSINESS ASSOCIATE. This term includes the following:
      (1)   A private employer;
      (2)   A general or limited partnership, or a general or limited partner
within the partnership;
      (3)   A corporation that is family owned or in which all shares of stock
are closely held, and the shareholders, owners, and officers of such a
corporation;
      (4)   A corporation, business association, or other business entity in
which the city government officer, employee or agent serves as a compensated
member or representative.
   BUSINESS ORGANIZATION. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship,
firm, enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed
individual, holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust,
professional service corporation, or any legal entity through which business is
conducted for profit.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city
government office covered by this code of ethics. An individual is a CANDIDATE
when the individual:
      (1)   Files a notification and declaration for nomination for office with
a City Clerk or the Secretary of State; or
      (2)   Is nominated for office by a political party under KRS 118.105,
118.115, 118.325, or 118.760.
   CITY GOVERNMENT AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, non-stock
corporation, task force or other entity formed by the city government or a
combination of city governments.
   CITY GOVERNMENT AGENT. Any person, whether compensated or not, whether full-
time or part-time, employed by or serving a city government agency who is not a
city government officer or employee, but shall not mean any employee of a
school district or school board.
   CITY GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether compensated or not, whether
full- time or part-time, employed by or serving the city government who is not
a city government officer, but shall not mean any employee of a school district
or school board.
   CITY GOVERNMENT OFFICER. Any person, whether compensated or not, whether
full- time or part-time, who is elected or appointed to the city government
office covered by this code of ethics.
   MEMBERS OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in an
individual's household, a person claimed by the individual or individual's
spouse as a dependent for tax purposes, or a person with whom the individual
maintains a close economic or personal association.
   RULE OF NECESSITY. The city government, agency or district may make or enter
into a contract in which an officer, employee, agent or members of his/her
immediate family or a business associate has an economic interest if the nature
of the transaction and the nature of the interest is publicly disclosed on the
record prior to the time it is engaged in; and a specific finding is made by
the city government, agency, or district and is so entered on the official
record of the proceedings of the governing body that, notwithstanding the
conflict, it is in the best interest of the local government because of limited
supply, price, or documented emergency.
(Ord. 94-013, passed 12-12-94; Am. Ord. 2004-004, passed 7-12-04)
§ 37.02 STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   No city government officer, employee or agent or member of his/her
immediate family shall have an interest in a business organization or engage in
any business, transaction, or professional activity, which is in substantial
conflict with the proper discharge of his/her duties in the public interest.
   (B)   No city government officer, employee or agent shall use or attempt to
use his/her official position to secure unwarranted privileges or advantages
for himself/herself or others.
   (C)   No city government officer or employee shall solicit or accept any
gift having a fair market value of more than one hundred dollars ($100.00), per
organization, per calendar year, whether in the form of money, service, loan,
travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing or promise, or any other form under
circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred that the gift was
intended to influence, or could reasonably be expected to influence the officer
or employee in the performance of his/her public duties. This provision shall
not apply to the solicitation or acceptance of contributions to the campaign of
an announced candidate for elected public office as governed by the Kentucky
Revised Statutes.
   (D)   No city government officer, employee or agent shall be prohibited from
giving or receiving an award publicly presented in recognition of public
service, commercially reasonable loans made in the ordinary course of the
lender’s business, or reasonable hosting, including travel and expenses,
entertainment, meals or refreshments furnished in connection with public
events, appearances, ceremonies or fact finding trips related to official
county government business.
   (E)   No city government officer, employee or agent shall use, or allow to
be used, his/her public office or employment, or any information, not generally
available to the members of the public which he/she receives or acquires in the
course of and by reason of his/her office or employment, for the purpose of
securing financial gain for himself, any member of his/her immediate family, or
any business organization with which he is associated except under the “rule of
necessity.”
   (F)   No city government officer or agent shall be deemed in conflict with
these provisions, if, by reason of his/her participation in the enactment of
any ordinance, resolution or other matter required to be voted upon or which is
subject to executive approval or veto, no material or monetary gain accrues to
him/her as a member of any business, profession, occupation or group, to any
greater extent than any gain could reasonably be expected to accrue to any
other member of such business, profession, occupation or group.
   (G)   No elected city government officer shall be prohibited from making an
inquiry for information of providing assistance on behalf of a constituent, if
no fee, reward or other thing of value is promised to, given to or accepted by
the officer or a member of his/her immediate family, whether directly or
indirectly, in return therefore.
   (H)   Nothing shall prohibit any city government officer, employee or agent
or members of his/her immediate family, from representing himself/herself, or
themselves, in negotiations or proceedings concerning his/her, or their, own
interests.
(Ord. 94-013, passed 12-12-94) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 37.03 FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
   The following classes of officers and employees of the City of Union and
city agencies shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the
Board of Ethics:
   (A)   Elected city officials (required by KRS 65.003).
   (B)   Candidates for elected city office (required by KRS 65.003).
   (C)   Members of the city Planning and Zoning Commission and Board of
Adjustment.
   (D)   City Administrator and City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (E)   Appointed members of the city’s Urban Renewal Agency.
   (F)   Members of the Board of Ethics created by this section.
   (G)   Non-elected officers and employees of the city or an city agency who
are authorized to make purchases of materials or services, or award contracts,
leases or agreements involving expenditure of more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) per purchase.
   (H)   Management personnel such as chief deputies and department heads.
   (I)   Members of boards and commissions which set tax rates, have
procurement authority, or vote to adopt budget.
(Ord. 94-013, passed 12-12-94; Am. Ord. 95-002, passed 3-13-95; Am. Ord. 2006-
004, passed 3-13-06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 37.04 NEPOTISM.
   (A)   Hiring members of immediate family is strongly discouraged. However,
in those rare instances where it is beneficial to the city and/or office to
hire a member of the immediate family, under no circumstances shall that person
receive compensation, benefits or other job consideration not given to other
employees of similar classification or job requirements. Also, for the member
of the immediate family to be considered for employment, he/she must possess
those qualifications required of other job applicants. If the hiring of a
member of immediate family takes place, the Mayor shall notify the City Ethics
Commission of his/her action.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall be grounds for dismissal from
employment of such immediate family member.
(Ord. 94-013, passed 12-12-94)
§ 37.05 (RESERVED)
 
§ 37.06 RETENTION OF RECORDS.
   Any records created by this code of ethics shall be maintained in compliance
with the applicable standards established by the Archives and Records
Commission of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
(Ord. 94-013, passed 12-12-94)
§ 37.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   Attached to Ordinance No. 2004-004, passed July 12, 2004, and incorporated
herein by reference is an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement authorized by KRS
65.210, et seq. which the Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to sign on
behalf of the city and the provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the
Northern Kentucky Regional Ethics Authority and the Northern Kentucky Ethics
Enforcement Committee according to the provisions thereof.
(Ord. 2004-004, passed 7-12-04)
§ 37.08 WHEN TO FILES STATEMENTS’ AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   A statement of financial interests required by this section shall be
filed with the Board of Ethics, or the designated administrative office no
later than 5:00 p.m. on April 30 of each year.
      (1)   An officer or employee newly appointed to fill and office or
position of employment with the city or a city agency shall file his or her
initial statement no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the
appointment.
      (2)   A candidate for city office shall file his or her initial statement
no later than thirty (30) days after the date on which the person becomes a
candidate for elected city office.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board, the officer or
employee shall, no later than thirty (30) days after becoming aware of the
material change, file an amended statement with the Board.
   (D)   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form
prescribed by the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated by
the Board of Ethics. The Board, or the designated administrative official,
shall deliver a copy of the form to each officer and employee required to file
the statement, by first class mail or hand delivery, no later than March 1 of
each year.
   (E)   The failure of the Board, or the designated administrative official,
to deliver a copy of the form to any officer or employee shall not relieve the
officer or employee of the obligation to file the statement.
(Ord. 2006-004, passed 3-13-06)
CHAPTER 38: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
38.01   Plans, policies, and procedures adopted by reference
   
38.02   Holidays
   
38.03   County Employees Retirement System
§ 38.01 PLANS, POLICIES, AND PROCEDURES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The classification plan, compensation plan, and policies and
procedures attached to Ordinance 90-004 shall be the system of personnel
administration for the city and are hereby adopted by reference as if and
incorporated into this code of ordinances as if fully set forth herein.
   (B)   The classification plan, compensation plan, and policies and
procedures may be waived, altered, or suspended only by a subsequent ordinance.
(Ord. 90-004, passed 3-12-90)
§ 38.02 HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   The following days are declared paid holidays at the regular rate of
pay for all full-time employees:
      (1)   New Year's Day, January 1;
      (2)   Martin Luther King Day, January 15;
      (3)   Presidents' Day, February 19;
      (4)   Good Friday;
      (5)   Memorial Day, the last Monday in May;
      (6)   Independence Day, July 4;
      (7)   Labor Day, the first Monday in September;
      (8)   Veterans' Day, November 11;
      (9)   Thanksgiving Day, the fourth Thursday in November;
      (10)   The Friday following Thanksgiving Day;
      (11)   Christmas Eve, December 24; and
      (12)   Christmas Day, December 25.
   (B)   In addition to the above holidays, full-time employees may select
another day as a holiday, subject to approval in advance by the Mayor. If a
worker is required to work on one of the holidays listed above, the worker
shall be paid holiday pay plus straight time for hours worked. If a holiday
falls on a Sunday, the following day will be considered the holiday. If a
holiday falls on a Saturday, the preceding day will be considered the holiday.
If a holiday occurs during a worker's vacation, the worker will be given an
equivalent time off with pay.
(Ord. 96-002, passed 3-11-96)
§ 38.03 COUNTY EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   All eligible regular full-time officers and employees of the city shall
comply with the County Employees Retirement System (C.E.R.S.) as provided for
in KRS 78.510 to 78.990.
(Ord. 99-003, passed 6-14-99)
CHAPTER 39: CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
Section
   
39.01   Definitions
   
39.02   Creation and membership
   
39.03   Enforcement powers
   
39.04   Appointment of members; term of office; removal from office; oath;
compensation
   
39.05   Organization of Board; meetings; quorum
   
39.06   Conflict of interest
   
39.07   Powers of the Code Enforcement Board
   
39.08   Enforcement proceedings
   
39.09   Hearing; notice; and final order
   
39.10   Presentation of cases
   
39.11   Appeals; final judgment
   
39.12   Ordinance fine schedule
   
39.13   Lien; fines, charges, and fees
   
39.14   Lienholder notification system
   
39.15   Liens
   
39.16   Immediate action
§ 39.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   ABATEMENT COSTS. A city’s necessary and reasonable costs for and associated
with clearing, preventing unauthorized entry to, or demolishing all or a
portion of a structure or premises, or taking any other action with regard to a
structure or premises necessary to remedy a violation and to maintain and
preserve the public health, safety and welfare in accordance with any city
ordinance.
   AGREEMENT. The Interlocal Agreement Creating the Union/Walton Joint Code
Enforcement Board, approved by the Kentucky Department for Local Government on
September 25, 2017.
   CHAIR. A member of the Joint Code Enforcement Board annually elected from
among its members to preside over meetings of the Joint Board.
   CITATION. A citation that conforms to the requirements set forth in KRS
65.8825.
   CITATION OFFICER. An employee or independent contractor who is appointed by
the Mayor to serve as Code Enforcement Officer to investigate violations of the
city’s ordinances, serve citations and notices of violation of ordinances, and
in other ways enforce the city’s ordinances. A CITATION OFFICER is not required
to be a public law enforcement officer; but shall possess experience, education
and training in codes administration, inspection and enforcement. Compensation
for services of the CITATION OFFICER shall be provided by separate ordinance of
the city, by separate contract, or as appropriated in the annual budget of the
city.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. An administrative body created and acting under the
authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act, KRS 65.8801 to
65.8839.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A City Administrative Officer, Boone County
Building Inspector, city police officer, safety officer, citation officer, or
other public law enforcement officer with the authority to issue a citation.
   FINAL ORDER. Any order:
      (1)   Issued by the Code Enforcement Board following a hearing in
accordance with §
39.09(E);
      (2)   Created because a violator neither paid nor contested the citation
within seven (7) days as provided in §
39.08(F); or
      (3)   Created because a violator failed to appear at a hearing the
violator requested to contest the citation as provided in §
39.08(C).
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
   JOINT CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD or JOINT BOARD. An administrative body created
and acting under the authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board
Act, KRS 65.8801 to KRS 65.8840.
   NOTICE OF VIOLATION. A written notice of a violation of a city ordinance
that describes the violation and sets forth a specific period of time in which
the violator may remedy the violation without incurring a fine.
   ORDINANCE. An official action of the local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and
shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by the city
legislative body which embodies all or part of an ordinance.
   OWNER. A person, association, corporation, partnership or other legal entity
having a legal or equitable title in real property.
   PARTY or PARTIES. The City of Walton, Kentucky and the City of Union,
Kentucky, and other local governments who may subsequently choose to join the
Joint Code Enforcement Board.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, including any structures upon it.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-5-16; Am. Ord. 2018-06, passed 6-4-18)
§ 39.02 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby created within the city pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to KRS
65.8839, a Code Enforcement Board which shall be composed of no fewer than
three (3) members, all of whom shall be residents of the city for a period of
at least one (1) year prior to the creation of the board and shall reside there
throughout the term in office.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-5-16)
§ 39.03 ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial orders and
impose civil fines as a method of enforcing Union City Ordinances and Zoning
Ordinances through Union Ordinance 2014-01 when a violation of the ordinance
has been classified as a civil offense. The Code Enforcement Board shall not
have the authority to enforce any ordinance regulating conduct which would
also, under any provision of the Kentucky Revised Statutes, constitute a
criminal offense or a moving motor vehicle offense.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-5-16)
§ 39.04 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; OATH;
COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be appointed by the
executive authority of the city, subject to the approval of the legislative
body.
   (B)   The initial appointment to the Code Enforcement Board shall be as
follows:
      (1)   One-third (1/3) of the membership or one-third (1/3) of the
membership and one (1) member of the board shall be appointed for a term of one
(1) year;
      (2)   One-third (1/3) of the membership or one-third (1/3) of the
membership and one (1) member of the board shall be appointed for a term of two
(2) years; and
      (3)   One-third (1/3) of the membership or one-third (1/3) of the
membership and one (1) member of the board shall be appointed for a term of
three (3) years.
   (C)   All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of three (3) years. A
member may be reappointed, subject to the approval of the legislative body.
   (D)   The executive authority may appoint, subject to the approval of the
legislative body, two (2) alternate members to serve on the Code Enforcement
Board in the absence of regular members. Alternate members shall meet all of
the qualifications and shall be subject to all of the requirements that apply
to regular members of the Code Enforcement Board.
   (E)   Any vacancy on the board shall be filled by the executive authority,
subject to approval of the legislative body, within sixty (60) days of the
vacancy. If the vacancy is not filled within that time period, the remaining
Code Enforcement Board members shall fill the vacancy. A vacancy shall be
filled for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (F)   A board member may be removed from office by the executive authority
for misconduct, inefficiency, or willful neglect of duty. The executive
authority shall submit a written statement to the member and the legislative
body setting forth the reasons for removal. The member so removed shall have
the right of appeal to the Circuit Court.
   (G)   All members of the Code Enforcement Board shall, before entering upon
the duties of their office, take the oath of office prescribed by Section 228
of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (H)   No member of the Code Enforcement Board shall hold any elected or non-
elected office, paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-5-16)
§ 39.05 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD; MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall annually elect a chair from among its
members. The chair shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member of
the board. In the absence of the chair, the remaining members of the board
shall select a member to preside in place of and exercise the powers of the
chair.
   (B)   Regular meetings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be held on the
first Tuesday of every month. Meetings other than those regularly scheduled
shall be special meetings or emergency meetings held in accordance with the
requirements of the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (C)   All meetings and hearings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be
public meetings held in accordance with the requirements of KRS 65.8815(5) and
the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (D)   The presence of at least a majority of the board's entire membership
shall constitute a quorum. The affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of
the board shall be necessary for any official action to be taken.
   (E)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Code Enforcement
Board and the vote of any member on any issue decided by the board shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-5-16)
§ 39.06 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Any member of the Code Enforcement Board who has any direct or indirect
financial or personal interest in any matter to be decided shall disclose the
nature of the interest, shall disqualify himself from voting on the matter in
which he has an interest, and shall not be counted for purposes of establishing
a quorum.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-5-16)
§ 39.07 POWERS OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.
   The City of Union, Kentucky Code Enforcement Board shall have the following
powers and duties:
   (A)   To adopt rules and regulations to govern its operations and the
conduct of its hearings consistent with this chapter.
   (B)   To conduct hearings to determine if there has been a violation of an
ordinance over which it has jurisdiction.
   (C)   To subpoena alleged violators, witnesses and evidence to its hearings.
Subpoenas issued by the Code Enforcement Board may be served by any code
enforcement officer.
   (D)   To take testimony under oath. The chairman shall have the authority to
administer oaths for the purpose of taking testimony.
   (E)   To make findings of fact and issue orders necessary to remedy any
violation of a city ordinance or code provision which the board is authorized
to enforce.
   (F)   To impose civil fines, as authorized, on any person found to have
violated an ordinance over which the board has jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-5-16)
§ 39.08 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Code Enforcement Board:
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings shall only be initiated by the issuance of a
citation by a Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Except when immediate action is necessary pursuant to §
39.16, if a code enforcement officer believes, based on his personal
observation or investigation, that a person has violated a city ordinance, he
shall issue a notice of violation allowing the alleged violator a specified
period of time to remedy the violation without incurring a fine. If the alleged
violator fails or refuses to remedy the violation within the time specified,
the code enforcement officer is authorized to issue a citation.
   (C)   The code enforcement officer shall issue a citation by one of the
following methods:
      (1)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
      (2)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person eighteen (18) years
of age or older who is on the premises, if the alleged violator is not on the
premises at the time the citation is issued; or
      (3)   Posting a copy of the citation in a conspicuous place on the
premises and mailing a copy of the citation by regular, first-class mail to the
owner of record of the property, if no one is on the premises at the time the
citation is issued.
   (D)   The citation issued by the code enforcement officer shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (4)   The date and time the offense was committed;
      (5)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (6)   The section of the code or the number of the ordinance violated;
      (7)   The name of the code enforcement officer;
      (8)   The civil fine that may be imposed for the violation, including, if
applicable:
         (a)   The civil fine that will be imposed if the person does not
contest the citation; and
         (b)   The maximum civil fine that may be imposed if the person elects
to contest the citation;
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (10)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation within the time allowed: the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board to contest the citation; the determination that the violation
was committed shall be final; the citation as issued shall be deemed a final
order determining that the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine
as set forth in the citation; and the person shall be deemed to have waived the
right to appeal the final order to District Court.
   (E)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the code enforcement
officer shall notify the Code Enforcement Board by delivering the citation to
the chairperson.
   (F)   (1)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven (7) days of the date of issuance by either paying the
civil fine or requesting, in writing, a hearing to contest the citation. If the
person fails to respond to the citation within seven (7) days, the person shall
be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a
violation was committed shall be considered final. In this event, the citation
as issued shall be deemed a final order determining that the violation was
committed and imposing the civil fine as set forth in the citation, and the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to appeal the final order to
District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is eighteen (18) years of age or older
and who is informed of the contents of the notice.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-5-16)
§ 39.09 HEARING; NOTICE; AND FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing has been requested, the Code Enforcement Board or its
administrative staff shall schedule a hearing.
   (B)   Not less than seven (7) days before the date of the hearing, the Code
Enforcement Board shall notify the requester of the date, time, and place of
the hearing. The notice maybe given by regular first-class mail; certified
mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at
the person's usual place of residence with any individual residing therein who
is eighteen (18) years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of
the notice.
   (C)   (1)   Any person requesting a hearing who fails to appear at the time
and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to a
hearing to contest the citation, and the determination that a violation was
committed shall be final. In this event, the citation as issued shall be deemed
a final order determining the violation was committed and imposing the civil
fine set forth in the citation, and the alleged violator shall be deemed to
have waived the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is eighteen (18) years of age or older
and who is informed of the contents of the notice.
   (D)   All testimony at the hearing shall be taken under oath and recorded.
Testimony shall be taken from the code enforcement officer, the alleged
violator, and any witnesses to the violation offered by the code enforcement
officer or alleged violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but
fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (E)   The Code Enforcement Board shall, based on the evidence, determine
whether a violation was committed. If it is determined that no violation was
committed, an order dismissing the citation shall be entered. If it is
determined that a violation was committed, an order may be issued upholding the
citation. The board may impose a fine up to the maximum authorized by
ordinance, or require the offender to remedy a continuing violation to avoid a
fine, or both.
   (F)   (1)   Every final order following a hearing shall be reduced to
writing, which shall include the findings and conclusions reached and the date
the order was issued. A copy shall be furnished to the person named in the
citation.
      (2)   If the person named in the citation is not present when the final
order is issued, the order shall be delivered to the person by regular first-
class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by
leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence with any individual
residing therein who is eighteen (18) years of age or older and who is informed
of the contents of the notice.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-5-16)
§ 39.10 PRESENTATION OF CASES.
   Each case before the Code Enforcement Board shall be presented by an
attorney selected by the city, a code enforcement officer for the city, or by a
member of the city's administrative staff. The city attorney may either be
counsel to the Code Enforcement Board or may present cases before the Code
Enforcement Board, but shall in no case serve in both capacities.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-5-16)
§ 39.11 APPEALS; FINAL JUDGMENT.
   (A)   An appeal from a final order of a Code Enforcement Board following a
hearing conducted pursuant to §
39.19(E) may be made to the Boone County District Court within thirty (30) days
of the date the order is issued. The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of
a complaint and a copy of the final order in the same manner as any civil
action under the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   If no appeal from a final order of the Code Enforcement Board is filed
within the time period set in division (A) of this section, the Code
Enforcement Board's order shall be deemed final for all purposes.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-5-16)
§ 39.12 ORDINANCE FINE SCHEDULE.
   Violations of ordinances that are enforced by the city Code Enforcement
Board shall be subject to the penalties as set forth in §
92.99.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-5-16)
§ 39.13 LIEN; FINES, CHARGES, AND FEES.
   (A)   The city shall possess a lien on property owned by the person found by
a non-appealable final order as defined by §
39.01(D), or by a final judgment of the court, to have committed a violation of
a city ordinance. The lien shall be for all civil fines assessed for the
violation and for all charges and fees incurred by the city in connection with
the enforcement of this chapter, including abatement costs. An affidavit of the
code enforcement officer shall constitute prima facie evidence of the amount of
the lien and regularity of the proceedings pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839.
   (B)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The lien
shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear
interest until paid. The lien shall continue for ten (10) years following the
date of the non-appealable final order or final court judgment.
   (C)   Subject to §
39.15, the lien shall take precedence over all other liens, except state,
county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial
proceedings, including a foreclosure action.
   (D)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (A), the person found
to have committed the violation shall be personally responsible for the amount
of all civil fines assessed for the violation and for all charges, fees and
abatement costs incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of the
ordinance. The city may bring a civil action against the person and shall have
the same remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-5-16)
§ 39.14 LIENHOLDER NOTIFICATION SYSTEM.
   The city shall obtain and maintain priority over previously filed liens, as
provided in §
39.13, in accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   Individuals and entities, including but not limited to lienholders,
may register with the city to receive electronic notification of final orders
entered pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   In order to receive the notification, the registrant shall submit the
following information to the City Clerk/Treasurer:
      Name; Kathy Porter;
      Mailing address; 1843 Mt. ZionRoad, Union, KY41091
      Phone number; and (859)384-1511
      Electronic mailing address: Kathy Porter <cityclerk@cityomnionky.org>
   (C)   A registrant may use the electronic form provided on the city Web site
to submit the information required by division (B) of this section. It shall be
the responsibility of the registrant to maintain and update the required
contact information with the city. The city shall inform a registrant of any
evidence received that the electronic mailing address is invalid or not
functional so that the registrant may provide an updated electronic mailing
address.
   (D)   Once per month the city shall send electronic mail notification of all
final orders entered pursuant to this chapter since the last date of
notification to each party registered pursuant to this section. The
notification shall provide an electronic link to the city code enforcement
database located on the city Web site. The database shall include the following
information regarding each final order:
      (1)   The name of the person charged with a violation;
      (2)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (3)   The last known mailing address for the owner of the premises where
the violation occurred;
      (4)   A copy of the full citation;
      (5)   A copy of the full final order; and
      (6)   The status of the final order regarding its ability to be appealed
pursuant to section.
   (E)   If an appeal is filed on a final order pursuant to this chapter, the
city shall send electronic mail notification to all registrants.
   (F)   Within ten (10) days of the issuance of a final order pursuant to this
chapter, the city shall update its code enforcement database to reflect the
issued final order, and shall post the notification required by division (D) of
this section containing an updated link to the code enforcement database on the
city web site.
   (G)   The city shall maintain the records created under this section for ten
(10) years following their issuance.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-5-16)
§ 39.15 LIEN.
   (A)   A lienholder of record who has registered pursuant to §
39.14(B) may, within forty-five (45) days from the date of issuance of
notification under §
39.14(D):
      (1)   Correct the violation, if it has not already been abated; or
      (2)   Pay all civil fines assessed for the violation, and all charges and
fees incurred by the city in connection with enforcement of the ordinance,
including abatement costs.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action if necessary under §
39.16.
   (C)   The lien provided by §
39.13 shall not take precedence over previously recorded liens if:
      (1)   The city failed to comply with the requirements of §
39.14 for notification of the final order; or
      (2)   A prior lienholder complied with division (A).
   (D)   A lien that does not take precedence over previously recorded liens
under division (C) of this section shall, if the final order remains partially
unsatisfied, continue to take precedence over all other subsequent liens except
liens for state, county, school board and city taxes.
   (E)   The city may record a lien before the forty-five (45) day period
established in division (A) expires. If the lien is fully satisfied prior to
the expiration of the forty-five (45) day period, the city shall release the
lien in the County Clerk's office where the lien is recorded within fifteen
(15) days of satisfaction.
   (F)   Failure of the city to comply with §§
39.14 and
39.15, or failure of a lien to take precedence over previously filed liens as
provided in division (C), shall not limit or restrict any other remedies the
city has against the property of the violator.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-5-16)
§ 39.16 IMMEDIATE ACTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the city from taking immediate action
to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is reason to believe that
the violation presents a serious threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of the violation
will be irreparable or irreversible.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-5-16)
CHAPTER 40: LICENSING, SALE, ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
40.01   Definitions
Licenses
   
40.20   Classification of licenses; fee schedule
   
40.21   Form, content of city license
   
40.22   Application; issuance
   
40.23   Approval of application
   
40.24   Denial of application
   
40.25   Transfer of license
   
40.26   Premises selling groceries, gasoline, and the like prohibited from
obtaining license
Sale of Alcoholic Beverages
   
40.40   Hours
   
40.41   Compliance with regulations and prohibitions
   
40.42   Maintenance of state license
   
40.43   Display of required license and certain signs
   
40.44   Criminal conduct on premises prohibited
   
40.45   Conducting business with minor
   
40.46   Illegal sexual conduct, exposure of human body
   
40.47   Business to be conducted continuously; exceptions
Administration and Enforcement
   
40.60   Alcoholic Beverage Control Administration
   
40.61   Right of entry; search and seizure
   
40.62   Suspension, revocation of license
 
   
40.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 40.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (A)   As used herein the words and phrases defined in KRS 241.010 and
243.015 have the meanings indicated therein.
   (B)   The following words and phrases have the meanings indicated:
      BOARD. The State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board established pursuant to
KRS 241.030.
      CITY. The City of Union, Kentucky.
      CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The person appointed to the office of Alcoholic
Beverage Control Administration created and established by the city pursuant to
§
40.60.
      CITY LICENSE. A license established and authorized pursuant to the terms
hereof.
      CITY LICENSEE. A person who has been issued a city license pursuant to
the terms  hereof.
      KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
      PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, partnership, joint venture, or
unincorporated association of persons or any combination thereof, and the
shareholders, officers, agents, servants, and employees thereof.
      PREMISES. The premises described in the city license issued pursuant to
the terms hereof and the application therefor.
      STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
      STATE LICENSE. A license authorized by KRS Chapters 241 to 244.
      TRAFFIC IN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES. Any action, business, or transaction in
regard to the production, storage, transportation, distribution, sale,
delivery, and transfer of alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 2014-20, passed 1-5-15)
LICENSES
§ 40.20 CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES; FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   For the privilege of trafficking in alcoholic beverages in the city
and pursuant to the authority of KRS 243.070, there is hereby established a
corresponding city license for each of the state licenses described in the
following schedule. The actions, business and transaction authorized and
permitted thereby, and the expiration dates thereof, shall be the same as those
of the state licenses to which the city licenses correspond, and which are
indicated and described in the sections of state law indicated in the following
schedule. The fees for such city licenses shall be as indicated in the
following schedule.
   (B)   The license year shall be December 1 of each year through November 30
of the following year. Licenses may be issued for less than the full license
year, upon payment of the proportion of the annual license fee equal to 1/12
times the number of months or fraction of a month remaining in the license
year; provided, that the minimum license fee shall be one-half the annual
license fee. All licenses shall expire on November 30 of each year, regardless
of when the license was issued.
   (C)   No person shall traffic in alcoholic beverages within the city without
both a valid city license and a valid state license therefor:
License Types Fees
License Types                                                         Fees
Quota retail package license (QP)                                     $800.50
Quota retail drink license (QD)                                       $800.50
Non-Quota (NQ) retail malt beverage package license (new applicants)  $400.50
*
Non-Quota Type 4 (NQ4) retail malt beverage drink license (new        $400.50
applicants)*
Non-Quota (NQ) or Non-Quota Type 4 (NQ4) retail drink license         $150.50
(renewal)
Non-Quota Type 2 (NQ2) retail license (includes distilled spirits,    $995.50
wine and malt beverages
NonQuota Type 3 (NQ3) Retail Drink License includes distilled spirits $210.50
wine, and malt beverages
Special temporary license - per event                                 $133.83
Special Sunday retail drink license                                   $300.50
Limited restaurant license (includes distilled spirits, wine & malt   $1,200.50
beverages
Limited golf course license (includes distilled spirits, wine & malt  $1,200.50
beverages
 
   (D)   The holder of a non-quota retail malt beverage package license may
obtain a Non-quota Type 4 malt beverage drink license for a fee of fifty
dollars ($50). The holder of a Non-quota Type 4 malt beverage drink license may
obtain a non-quota retail malt beverage package license for a fee of fifty
dollars ($50).
   (E)   The fee for each of the first five (5) supplemental bar licenses shall
be the same as the fee for the primary drink license. There shall be no charge
for each supplemental license issued in excess of five (5) to the same licensee
at the same premises.
(Ord. 2014-20, passed 1-5-15; Am. Ord. 2015-09, passed 5-4-15; Am. Ord. 2015-
12, passed 7-6-15) Penalty, see § 40.99
§ 40.21 FORM, CONTENT OF CITY LICENSE.
   (A)   The city licenses authorized and established hereby shall each be
evidenced by a document, the form and content of which shall be prescribed by
regulation of the City Administrator.
   (B)   However, the documents must be of the same color and designation as
those of the state licenses to which the city licenses correspond and must:
      (1)   Comply with all of the provisions for state licenses required by
KRS 243.440; and
      (2)   Contain a declaration that the license authorizes the search of the
licensed premises by any peace officer at any time for any purpose; the removal
therefrom of any evidence of any crime or other violation of any law; and the
use thereof in any trial or hearing in regard thereto.
(Ord. 2014-20, passed 1-5-15)
§ 40.22 APPLICATION; ISSUANCE.
   Subject to the limitations and restrictions described herein, city licenses
shall be originally issued by the City Clerk and renewed by the City Clerk upon
the expiration thereof upon receipt of the following documents and fees more
than thirty (30) days prior to the effective date of an original license and
more than fifteen (15) days prior to the expiration date of any license to be
renewed:
   (A)   A written application therefor with the truth of the information,
statements, and representations therein attested by the signature and the oath
or affirmation of the applicant. The form and content of such application shall
be prescribed by regulation of the City Administrator; however, provision for
the following information, statements, and representations shall and must be
included therein:
      (1)   All information required by KRS 243.390 to be contained in the
application for state licenses.
      (2)   A consent by the applicant to the search of the licensed premises
by any peace officer at any time for any purpose, the removal therefrom of any
evidence of any crime or other violation of any law; and the use thereof in any
trial or hearing in regard thereto.
   (B)   The approval of the applicant, the application, and the premises
described therein by the City ABC Administrator.
   (C)   Documentary evidence of a valid state license which corresponds to the
city license for which the application is being made.
   (D)   Payment of the applicable fee, in cash or by certified or cashier's
check, for the city license which is the subject of the application.
(Ord. 2014-20, passed 1-5-15)
§ 40.23 APPROVAL OF APPLICATION.
   Within thirty (30) days of the date of the application for an original city
license and fifteen (15) days of the date of an application for renewal of a
city license, the City Administrator shall, by mail or personal delivery
thereof, notify the applicant, in writing, of either the approval thereof or
the disapproval thereof and a hearing in regard thereto.
(Ord. 2014-20, passed 1-5-15)
§ 40.24 DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   As is similarly set forth in KRS 243.450, the City Administrator shall not
approve any application for a city license if:
   (A)   The applicant, the application, or the premises described therein do
not fully comply with the provisions of this chapter and all laws in regard to
alcoholic beverages;
   (B)   The applicant and/or any shareholder, officer, agent, servant, or
employee thereof has caused, permitted, or engaged in any act for which the
revocation of a state or city license is authorized;
   (C)   The applicant and/or any shareholder, officer, agent, servant, or
employee thereof had a state license or city license which was revoked within
two (2) years of the date of the application, or the premises described therein
were the premises or any portion thereof described in a state license or city
license revoked during such time;
   (D)   Any statement or representation in the application is false; or
   (E)   In the exercise of sound discretion, the City Administrator determines
any cause or reason for refusing to approve an application reasonably related
to the purpose and objective of this chapter and the state laws and regulations
of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board. Among those factors that the
City Administrator shall consider in the exercise of his discretion are: public
sentiment in the area; number of licensed outlets in the area; potential for
future growth; type of area involved; type of transportation available; and
financial potential of the area.
(Ord. 2014-20, passed 1-5-15)
§ 40.25 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A city license shall not assign or transfer any city license to any other
person or premises unless that person and/or premises complies with all of the
provisions of this chapter; the transfer of the license is approved by the City
Administrator; and the transfer of the state license to which the city license
corresponds is approved by the state. A transfer fee of ten dollars ($10) shall
be paid to the city for the transfer of the city license.
(Ord. 2014-20, passed 1-5-15) Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.26 PREMISES SELLING GROCERIES, GASOLINE, AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED FROM
OBTAINING LICENSE.
   (A)   As prohibited in KRS 243.280, no NQ retail malt beverage package
license shall be issued within or upon any premises from which gasoline and
lubricating oil are sold or from which the servicing and repair of motor
vehicles is conducted unless there is continuously maintained an inventory on
the premises for sale at retail of not less than five thousand dollars ($5,000)
of food, groceries, and the related products valued at cost.
   (B)   A prohibited in KRS 243.230 no quota retail package license or quota
retail drink license shall be issued to sell distilled spirits or wine from any
premises used as or in connection with the operation of any business in which a
substantial part of the commercial transaction consists of selling at retail
staple groceries, or gasoline or lubricating oil.
(Ord. 2014-20, passed 1-5-15)
SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
§ 40.40 HOURS.
   (A)   The sale of alcoholic beverages shall occur only during the hours
hereinafter set out for each license as follows:
      (1)   Distilled spirits package licenses. During the period between 6:00
a.m. to 1:00 a.m. daily, except Sunday and from 9:00 a.m. to midnight on
Sunday.
      (2)   Distilled spirits drink licenses. During the period between 6:00
a.m. to 2:30 a.m. daily except Sunday and from 9:00 a.m. to midnight on Sunday.
      (3)   Retail malt beverage drink licenses. During the period between the
hours of 6:00 a.m. to 2:30 a.m. daily except Sunday and from 9:00 a.m. to
midnight on Sunday.
   (B)   During the restricted hours set forth in division (A), no person who
has a valid city license for the sale of distilled spirits or wine or malt
beverages at retail shall cause, permit, or engage in any of the actions,
business, or transactions authorized and permitted thereby. During such times
all persons who have such city licenses shall cause the licensed premises to be
closed and vacated by all persons except the applicant and those persons
identified on the application for such city licenses or any supplements thereto
as officers, agents, or employees of the person to whom such city license was
issued. All other persons shall vacate the licensed premises and remove
themselves therefrom during such times; however, any person upon the premises
who purchased any alcoholic beverages by the drink from the license holder
within thirty (30) minutes prior to any such times may remain upon the premises
for a period not to exceed thirty (30) minutes thereafter for the sole purpose
of the consumption of the drink purchased.
   (C)   If a separate department of such licensed premises is maintained in a
manner previously approved in writing by the city Alcoholic Beverage Control
Administrator as being capable of being locked, closed off, and separated from
the remainder of the licensed premises and all distilled spirits, wine, and
malt beverages and all fixtures and apparatus connected with the acts of
business and transactions authorized by the state licenses and city licenses
for the retail sale of distilled spirits, wine, and malt beverages from such
premises are located within such approved department, and such approved
department is continuously kept locked, physically separated, and closed off
from the remainder of the licensed premises during such times, the remainder of
the licensed premises may remain open and any lawful activity may be conducted
thereon during such times.
(Ord. 2014-20, passed 1-5-15; Am. Ord. 2017-14, passed 10-11-17; Am. Ord. 2017-
18, passed 12-13-17; Am. Ord. 2022-11, passed 6-6-22; Am. Ord. 2022-21, passed
11-21-22)
§ 40.41 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   At all times during which any person has a valid city license issued
pursuant to the provisions hereof, that person shall fully comply with all of
the rules, regulations, requirements, and prohibitions set forth in this
chapter.
   (B)   A city licensee shall comply fully with all of the provisions hereof
and all of the rules and regulations of the City Administrator in regard
thereto; all provisions of the state statutes and the rules and regulations of
the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board in regard to the licensed premises
and the actions, business, and transactions conducted thereon subsequent to the
issuance of a state license therefor and prior to the expiration, revocation,
or suspension thereof which are hereby incorporated herein and made applicable
to all city licenses corresponding thereto, the premises described therein, and
the actions, business, and transactions conducted thereon; and the city
licensee shall comply fully therewith.
(Ord. 2014-20, passed 1-5-15) Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.42 MAINTENANCE OF STATE LICENSE.
   A city licensee shall maintain the state license to which the city license
corresponds and fully comply with all state statutes and the rules and
regulations of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board in regard thereto.
(Ord. 2014-20, passed 1-5-15) Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.43 DISPLAY OF REQUIRED LICENSES AND CERTAIN SIGNS.
   As required by KRS 244.083, a city license who has a valid city retail
distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverage license shall cause to be displayed
in a conspicuous and prominent place on the licensed premises each of the
following documents so that they may be seen and observed by all persons
entering the licensed premises:
   (A)   A sign or placard at least eight (8) inches by eleven (11) inches in
size with the following message printed or displayed thereon in thirty (30)
point or larger type:
   "Persons under the age of twenty-one (21) years are subject to a fine up to
one hundred ($100.00) dollars if they:
      (1)   Enter licensed premises to buy or have served or delivered to them
any alcoholic beverages;
      (2)   Possess, purchase or attempt to purchase any alcoholic beverages;
or
      (3)   Misrepresent their age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic beverages."
   (B)   All valid city licenses issued therefor and the state licenses to
which they correspond. The failure to so display such licenses shall be prima
facie evidence that no such valid licenses have been issued or exist and all
actions, business, and transactions authorized thereby conducted on such
premises are illegal and in violation of the provisions hereof and the state
statutes and regulations of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board in
regard thereto.
(Ord. 2014-20, passed 1-5-15) Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.44 CRIMINAL CONDUCT ON PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   A city license shall not cause, permit, or engage in any conduct upon the
licensed premises by either the commission of a prohibited act or the omission
of a required act which is a crime or other violation of any law, rule, or
regulation of any governmental agency having jurisdiction thereof or any
officer or agency thereof.
(Ord. 2014-20, passed 1-5-15) Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.45 CONDUCTING BUSINESS WITH MINOR.
   As prohibited by KRS 244.080 and 244.085, no person shall cause permit,
encourage, or engage in any of the following actions in the city:
   (A)   The possession or consumption of any alcoholic beverage by any person
under twenty- one (21) years of age in or upon any licensed premises or public
places; and
   (B)   The misrepresentation of the name, address, age, or other
identification of any person under twenty-one (21) years of age for the purpose
of obtaining alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 2014-20, passed 1-5-15) Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.46 ILLEGAL SEXUAL CONDUCT, EXPOSURE OF HUMAN BODY.
   No person shall cause, permit, encourage, or engage in any of the following
activities or display still or motion pictures thereof on licensed premises:
   (A)   Sexual conduct as defined in KRS 531.010(9).
   (B)   The appearance of any human being, clothed or unclothed, in such a
manner that any portion of the following body members are exposed to view:
      (1)   The nipple of the female breast.
      (2)   The female breast below the nipple.
      (3)   The genitalia.
      (4)   The pubic hair.
      (5)   The anus.
(Ord. 2014-20, passed 1-5-15) Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.47 BUSINESS TO BE CONDUCTED CONTINUOUSLY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   A city licensee who has a valid city wholesale or retail distilled
spirits, wine or malt beverage license must conduct the actions, business, and
transactions authorized thereby upon the licensed premises.
   (B)   When no such actions, business, or transactions are conducted thereon
for a period of ninety (90) consecutive calendar days, the city license
therefor shall become null and void and revoked by the City Administrator
unless:
      (1)   The city licensee is unable to continue in business at the premises
for which a licenses is issued due to an act of God; casualty; the acquisition
of the premises by any federal, state, city, or other governmental agency under
power of eminent domain; acquisition of any private corporation through its
power of eminent domain granted to it, whether such acquisition is voluntary or
involuntary; or loss of lease through failure of the landlord to renew the
existing lease; and
      (2)   Prior to the discontinuance of business at the licensed premises or
immediately thereupon if such is due to an act of God, the city licensee
delivers to the City Administrator a written statement signed by the city
licensee and verified by the oath or affirmation thereof indicating the
discontinuance of business at the licensed premises for any of the causes or
reasons described herein.
(Ord. 2014-20, passed 1-5-15)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 40.60 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Creation; powers and duties. There is hereby created the office of
City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator pursuant to the authority of KRS
241.160. The powers and duties of the City Alcoholic Beverage Control
Administrator shall be the same with respect to city liquor licenses and
regulations as the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board created by KRS
241.030 with respect to state licenses and regulations, except that no
regulation adopted by the city may be less stringent than the statutes relating
to alcoholic beverage control, or than the regulations of the State Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board. No regulation of the Alcoholic Beverage Control
Administrator shall become effective until it is approved by the State Board.
(See also KRS 241.190)
   (B)   Oath. The City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator before
entering upon his duties, shall take the oath prescribed in Section 228 of the
state constitution.
   (C)   Bond. The City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator shall before
entering upon his duties execute a bond with a good corporate surety in the
penal sum of not less than one thousand dollars ($1,000). The cost of this bond
shall be borne by the city.
   (D)   Compensation. The annual compensation of the City Alcoholic Beverage
Control Administrator shall be that which is set forth by the City Commission
from time to time.
   (E)   Appointment. In accordance with KRS 241.170(2), the City Alcoholic
Beverage Control Administrator shall be appointed by the City Manager and if
there is no City Manager then the City Administrator shall be appointed by the
Mayor.
(Ord. 2014-20, passed 1-5-15)
§ 40.61 RIGHT OF ENTRY; SEARCH AND SEIZURE.
   A city licensee shall permit the entry and search of the licensed premises
by any peace officer at any time for any purpose, and the seizure and removal
therefrom of any evidence of any crime or other violation of law and the use
thereof in any trial or hearing in regard thereto.
(Ord. 2014-20, passed 1-5-15)
§ 40.62 SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the procedure set forth in KRS 243.480 through 243.590,
city licenses may be either revoked or suspended by the City Administrator upon
the occurrence of:
      (1)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter or any other
alcoholic beverage control ordinance of the city;
      (2)   Any violation of any provision of state law in regard to alcoholic
beverages or the rules and regulations of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control
Board in regard thereto; or
      (3)   Any other cause, reason, or circumstance for which a state license
may be revoked or suspended by the Board.
   (B)   However, city licenses must be revoked by the City Administrator upon
the occurrence of any cause or circumstance which requires revocation of state
license pursuant to KRS 243.500 or the revocation of a state license to which a
city license corresponds. Further, with the approval of the City Administrator,
a licensee may, as an alternative and in lieu of part or all of the days of any
suspension period, pay the following sums to the city as set forth in KRS
243.480: distillers, rectifiers, wineries, and brewers: one thousand dollars
($1,000) per day; wholesale liquor licensees: four hundred dollars ($400) per
day; wholesale beer licensees: four hundred dollars ($400) per day; retail
licensees authorized to sell distilled spirits, wine, and beer by the package
or drink: fifty dollars ($50) per day; and all remaining licensees: fifty
dollars ($50) per day.
   (C)   The procedure for the revocation or suspension of a city license shall
consist of a written notice signed by the City ABC Administrator and mailed to
the licensee at the address of the licensed premises by certified mail,
describing the cause, circumstance, or occurrence and the time and date thereof
for which the city license may be revoked and indicating the time and place of
a hearing in regard thereto at least five (5) days thereafter at which the
licensee and the representatives thereof shall be heard thereon. The hearing
thereon shall be conducted by the City Administrator in the city and according
to the procedure prescribed by the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board for
hearings by the Board as supplemented by the regulations of the City
Administrator. The City Administrator shall control and make all decisions in
regard to the introduction of evidence and shall hear all arguments in regard
thereto. At the conclusion of the hearing, the City Administrator shall issue a
written decision in regard thereto and mail a certified copy thereof to the
licensee at the address of the licensed premises by certified or registered
mail.
(Ord. 2014-20, passed 1-5-15)
§ 40.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter, upon
conviction thereof in a court of competent jurisdiction, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and sentenced to pay a fine for each offense of no more than five
hundred dollars ($500), or sentenced to imprisonment for no more than thirty
(30) days, or any combination of such fines and imprisonment.
   (B)   Any person who violates the distillers license fee provision of §
40.20 shall be, upon conviction and in accordance with KRS 243.990(2), guilty
of a Class B misdemeanor and be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than one
hundred dollars ($100) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200), or sentenced
to imprisonment for no more than ninety (90) days, or both, for the first
offense. For the second offense, the person shall be guilty of a Class A
misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than two hundred ($200) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500), or sentenced to imprisonment for no more than
twelve (12) months, or both. On the third and each subsequent offense, the
person shall be guilty of a Class D felony and sentenced to pay a fine of not
less than five hundred dollars ($500) nor more than five thousand dollars
($5,000), or sentenced to imprisonment for not more than five (5) years, or
both.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of §
40.20 other than as discussed in division (B) above, or any provision of §§
40.21 through
40.26,
40.40 through
40.42, or
40.45(A), upon conviction and in accordance with KRS 243.990(1) and 244.990(1),
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and be fined not less than one hundred dollars
($100) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200), or be imprisoned for no more
than ninety (90) days, or both, for the first offense. On the second and each
subsequent offense, the person shall be fined not less than two hundred dollars
($200) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500), or be imprisoned for no more
than twelve (12) months, or both.
   (D)   Any person who violates any provision of §
40.43, upon conviction and in accordance with KRS 244.990(5), shall be guilty
of a Class A misdemeanor and be fined not less than ten dollars ($10) nor more
than one hundred dollars ($100).
   (E)   Any person who violates any provision of §
40.45(B) shall, upon conviction and in accordance with KRS 244.990(5) and (6),
be fined not less than ten dollars ($10) nor more than one hundred ($100) for
misrepresentation of age. For use of a false, fraudulent, or altered
identification card, paper, or other document to purchase, attempt to purchase,
or otherwise obtain any alcoholic beverage, the person shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500).
(Ord. 2014-20, passed 1-5-15)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WASTE REMOVAL
CHAPTER 50: WASTE REMOVAL
Section
   
50.01   Waste receptacles
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 WASTE RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   From this point forward any and all waste receptacles shall only be
allowed to remain within fifty (50) feet of a city street from Wednesday at 4:
00 p.m. until Friday at 12 a.m. midnight.
   (B)   The waste receptacles shall be in acceptable containers (firmly
covered) so to prevent loss of the trash/refuge/waste due to wind, storms or
animal attacks.
(Ord. 2005-010, passed 9-12-05; Am. Ord. 2014-018, passed 12-1-14; Am. Ord.
2015-05, passed 4-6- 15) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Each separate violation of this chapter is hereby classified as a
misdemeanor offense and designated as a violation, for which there is hereby
imposed a fine of not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) per occurrence.
(Ord. 2005-010, passed 9-12-05; Am. Ord. 2014-018, passed 12-1-14)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING ON PUBLIC STREETS OR WAYS
      
73.   BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND SKATEBOARDS
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Signal legends
   
70.16   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.17   Obedience to signals
   
70.18   Interference with signals
   
70.19   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.20   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.21   Temporary disregard of devices by police officer
Snow Emergencies
   
70.40   Authorization
   
70.41   Declaration after consultation; emergency classification
   
70.42   Parking prohibited
   
70.43   County assistance
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Police Department, vehicles
of the Commonwealth Attorney's office when on official business, and ambulances
on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing such boulevard.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two (2) consecutive
intersections in which fifty percent (50%) or more of the frontage on either
side of the street is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. That portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and such other portions of the roadway
between two (2) intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places
and marked by stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION. That part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two (2) or more streets which join at an angle whether or
not one (1) such street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the City
Commission.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street or portion thereof so designated by the City
Commission and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and foot
paths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to proceed
in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. That portion of any street, improved, designated, or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses, and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn on any street except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate
any of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in
this traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or any other signal.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the City Commission or any authorized city official
shall, at his discretion, have authority to impose such traffic regulations as
he may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two (2) weeks. If
these temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than two (2)
weeks, the City Clerk shall be notified in writing of the extended order.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “Go,” “Caution,” or “Stop,” or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows:
   (A)   Green alone or “Go”: Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time
such signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or
“Go” signal: Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “Stop”: Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such
other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or “Go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed
until it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by such
signal.
   (F)   “Yield Right-of-Way”: Vehicular traffic facing the “Yield Right-of-
Way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right- of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within such primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a “Yield Right-of-Way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of fifteen (15) miles per hour, except that this speed limit shall not apply to
vehicles entering an expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights: When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above such lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at such place prohibits
such turn.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.16 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.17 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for such
barrier or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   Such sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority
as the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the
movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal. No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal bearing any commercial
advertising. Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily
from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been
approved by the city.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if,
at the time and place of the alleged violation, the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
§ 70.21 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may at his discretion disregard traffic-
control lights or signals or established regulations in order to facilitate the
movement of traffic.
SNOW EMERGENCIES
§ 70.40 AUTHORIZATION.
   Pursuant to the provisions of KRS 67.083 and 39.409 and County Ord. 1011,
the County Judge-Executive, Mayor, or their designee may declare a state of
emergency, when conditions caused by a natural or man-made occurrence warrant
such actions.
(Ord. 96-009, passed 11-4-96)
§ 70.41 DECLARATION AFTER CONSULTATION; EMERGENCY CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   A snow emergency may be declared by the Mayor directly, or by County
Emergency Management after consultation between the County Emergency
Management, County Public Works and the County Sheriff’s Department. The County
Public Information Officer shall notify all media outlets, local government
jurisdictions and school district authorities in the county of snow
emergencies.
   (B)   Snow emergencies shall be defined at one of the following levels:
      (1)   Level one. Roadways are hazardous with blowing and drifting snow.
Roadways may be icy; cautious driving is advised.
      (2)   Level two. Roadways are hazardous with blowing and drifting snow.
Only motorists whose travel is absolutely necessary should be on the roadways.
Residents are urged to contact their employer to see if they should report to
work.
      (3)   Level three. All roadways are closed to non-emergency personnel.
Travel only for work, provisions, medical supplies, or medical treatment is
permitted. All employees should contact their employer concerning work
schedules. Essential travel only is advised.
(Ord. 96-009, passed 11-4-96; Am. Ord. 2011-003, passed 6-6-11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.42 PARKING PROHIBITED.
   During snow emergencies where snowfall is two (2) inches or greater, it is
required that motor vehicles not be parked or abandoned on streets or roadways,
in order to allow for the safe and effective road treatment and/or plowing.
(Ord. 96-009, passed 11-4-96; Am. Ord. 2011-003, passed 6-6-11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.43 COUNTY ASSISTANCE.
   During snow emergencies, the county Public Works Department may, at its
discretion or as ordered by the County Judge-Executive, the office of the
Mayor, or their designee, assist in the clearing on non-county, state, or city-
owned roadways in order to facilitate emergency traffic or the rendering of aid
to sick, stranded, or injured persons.
(Ord. 96-009, passed 11-4-96)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than twenty dollars ($20.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00).
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
Accidents
   
71.15   Duty of operator
   
71.16   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.25   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.26   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.27   Smoke emission or other nuisance
   
71.28   Use of heavy equipment
Parades
   
71.40   Definitions
   
71.41   Permit required
   
71.42   Application for permit
   
71.43   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.44   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.45   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.46   Alternative permit
   
71.47   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.48   Contents of permit
   
71.49   Duties of permittee
   
71.50   Public conduct during parades
   
71.51   Revocation of permit
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he shall be deemed to have violated this
division rather than division (B) above.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U TURNS.
The operator of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8)) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at any
intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle from
any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the City Commission or any authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension. On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. The operator
of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley from the
roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
Penalty, see §
71.99
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.15 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render such assistance as may be needed.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.16 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner, or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
Penalty, see § 71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.25 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure the highway.
   (C)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure vehicles or equipment located in or near a highway
work zone.
   (D)   A person shall not operate any vehicle in a reckless or negligent
manner as to endanger persons or property in or near a highway, or in or near a
highway work zone.
   (E)   In addition to any other penalty, an operator who violates divisions
(C) or (D) of this section shall be subject to revocation of his or her
operator’s license under KRS 186.560.
(KRS 189.290) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.26    RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of five hundred (500) feet to
the front of the emergency vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal
by siren, exhaust whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way, immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as
close as possible to, the edge or curb of the highway clear of any
intersection, and stop and remain stopped until the emergency vehicle has
passed, except when otherwise directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall remain stopped until the
emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer or
firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than five hundred (500) feet, nor shall
he or she drive into, park the vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the
block where the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm,
unless he or she is directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train, or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway, or track for use at any fire or fire alarm unless the fire
department official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   The provisions of division (F) of this section shall apply to any
driver approaching a stationary:
      (1)   Emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when the emergency
vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal by displaying alternately
flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or blue lights; or
      (2)   Disabled vehicle, when the disabled vehicle is displaying some type
of warning signal, such as emergency flashers, flares, or retroreflective
signals.
   (F)   The driver of a vehicle that is approaching a vehicle described in
division (E) of this section, shall, while proceeding with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four (4)
lanes with at least two (2) lanes proceeding in the same direction as the
approaching vehicle; and
         (b)   It is possible to make the lane change with due regard to safety
and traffic conditions; or
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if the road has less than four (4) lanes or if changing lanes would
be impossible or unsafe.
   (G)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.27 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke, or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.28 USE OF HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   Pursuant to KRS 189.190, 189.221 and 189.222, it shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation to operate any bulldozer or other vehicle equipped
with metal tracks or treads or any vehicle equipped with metal wheels fitted
with lugs on the streets of the city so that the tracks, treads or wheels with
lugs are in contact with pavement of the streets.
(Ord. 98-007, passed 10-12-98) Penalty, see § 71.99(D)
PARADES
§ 71.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
§ 71.41 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the City
Commission or any authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.42 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the City Commission or any authorized city official on forms provided by the
Commissioner or such officer.
   (A)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than sixty (60) days before the date on which
it is proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairman and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his behalf;
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Commission.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.43 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The City Commission or any authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.44 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The City Commission or any authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three (3) days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If the City Commission or authorized
city official disapproves the application, it shall mail to the applicant
within the three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excepted, after the
date on which the application was filed, a notice of its action stating the
reasons for denial of the permit.
§ 71.45 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Commission. The appeal shall be taken within thirty (30)
days after notice of denial. The City Commission shall act on the appeal within
thirty (30) days after its receipt.
§ 71.46 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The City Commission or any authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall conform to
the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit under this
subchapter.
§ 71.47 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The City Commission;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Police Chief and the Fire Chief;
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
§ 71.48 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof;
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.49 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairman or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his
person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.50 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.51 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than twenty dollars ($20.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00).
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.26 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than sixty
dollars ($60.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), or be imprisoned
in the county jail for not more than thirty (30) days, or both. (KRS 189.993
(8))
   (C)   Any person who violates
Chapter 74, Schedule I shall be guilty of a violation and fined not more than
the amount set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(c) for each offense.
(KRS 83A.065(2))
   (D)   Any person who violates §
71.28 shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) or more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each conviction. Each incident of violation
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 98-007, passed 10-12-98)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING ON PUBLIC STREETS OR WAYS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Public streets with a no parking restriction
   
72.02   Public streets with a one-side parking only restriction
   
72.03   Public streets with a special parking restriction
Enforcement
   
72.97   Parking Violation Hearing Board
   
72.98   Payment of civil penalty or request for hearing
   
72.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 PUBLIC STREETS WITH A NO PARKING RESTRICTION.
   Parking shall be prohibited on the following public streets located within
the City of Union, Kentucky:
   Appomattox Drive (median lanes)          Lancashire Drive (median lanes)
   Arbor Springs Blvd. (median lanes)           Longbranch Road (city portion)
   Aria Court (one-way)             Old Union Road(s) (formerly US 42)
   Bayswater Drive (median lanes)          Old US 42 (city portion)
   Braxton Road (commercial portion)          Peaceful Aly
   Brilliance Avenue                Richmond Road (commercial portion)
   Burleigh Lane (median lanes)         Saffron Aly
   Callie Way                   Sage Aly
   Cavalry Drive                  Sycamore Drive (one way)
   Clarkston Lane (city portion)          Sweet Harmony Lane (median lanes)
   Double Eagle                  Sweet Harmony Lane (Old Union/US 42)
   Farmcrest Drive (city portion)         Westbrook Blvd. (median lanes)
   Farmview Drive (city portion)         Weatherington Blvd. (city portion)
   Hempsteade Drive (median lanes)
(Ord. 2013-013, passed 11-4-13; Am. Ord. 2014-015, passed 9-9-14; Am. Ord.
2020-04, passed 12-7-20) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 PUBLIC STREETS WITH A ONE-SIDE PARKING ONLY RESTRICTION.
   Parking shall be prohibited within any cul-de-sac and on one side only for
the following public streets within the City of Union, Kentucky:
   Abbington Drive               Lewis Lane
   Armistead Court               Lilly Pad Court
   Arbor Springs Blvd               Lincoln Court
   Ashton Court                  Lurawoods Court
   Aspen Place                  Melody Drive
   Bayberry Lane               Merrimac Court
   Bayswater Drive               Mountain Laurel Way
   Brandsteade Court               Napa Ridge Court
   Braxton Road (residential portion)         Natchez Trace
   approx. 2800 linear ft. exclusive of         Pembroke Drive
   the 430 ft. section set forth in §
72.03      Pickett Run
   Burleigh Lane                  Planters Trail
   Capri Court                  Pond Ridge Court
   Cedarwood Drive               Richmond Road (residential portion)
   Chantilly Drive               Russwill Lane
   Churchill Drive               Sapphire Lane
   Cobalt Way                  Serenity Court
   Creekstone Court               Shane Lane (city portion)
   Daybreak Court               Sherman Court
   Dawns Light                  Soaring Breezes
   Deepwood Court (city portion)         Sonata Drive
   Easymoor Court               Splendor Drive
   Evening Star                  Stillmeadow Court
   Evensong Drive               Stoneybrook Court
   Fireside Court (city portion)            Sumpter Court
   Fort Henry Drive               Sweet Harmony Lane
   Golden Pond Drive               Tudor Lane
   Grafton Court                  Union Bluffs Drive
   Greenbriar Place               Vicksburg Drive
   Hartwood Court               Waterside Court
   Hempsteade Drive               Weeping Willow Court
   Holderness Drive               Whispering Trails   
   Indian Hill Drive               Whittlesey Drive
   Kingston Court               Willow Brook Court
   Lakepoint Court               Wilshire Court
   Lakeway Court               Windsor Way
   Lancashire Drive               Wyndham Way
(Ord. 2013-013, passed 11-4-13; Am. Ord. 2014-015, passed 9-9-14; Am. Ord.
2020-04, passed 12-7-20) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 PUBLIC STREETS WITH A SPECIAL PARKING RESTRICTION.
 
Arbor     No parking between the signs along the inside curve for a distance of 204
Springs   feet between 2013 Arbor Springs Boulevard and 2031 Arbor Springs Boulevard
Boulevard
          Beginning from 6:00 p.m. until 6:00 a.m. parking will be restricted to four
Braxton   hours only on the north side of Braxton Road beginning at the intersection of
Road      Braxton Road and Richmond Road, continuing east to the border of Union and
          Florence 430 feet.
Burleigh  No parking for the first 210 feet on the north side of Burleigh Lane starting
Lane      at the intersection of Hempsteade Drive going in an easterly direction
          “No Parking between the Signs” along inside of the horizontal curve for a
Cherbourg distance of approximately 225 feet fronting 9775 Cherbourg Drive. Parking
Drive     shall be prohibited in the cul-de-sac and on only one side of the street on
          the remaining portion of Cherbourg Drive.
 
(Ord. 2014-015, passed 9-9-14; Am. Ord. 2020-04, passed 12-7-20; Am. Ord. 2022-
20, passed 11-7-22; Am. Ord. 2022-23, passed 1-4-23) Penalty, see §
72.99
ENFORCEMENT
§ 72.97 PARKING VIOLATION HEARING BOARD.
   (A)   The Union City Commission accepts, adopts and consents to the use of
the Boone County Hearing Board to hear all parking citations issued within the
boundaries of the city.
   (B)   There has been established a Boone County Parking Violation Hearing
Board, as codified within in the Boone County, Kentucky, Code of Ordinances,
that is designated to hear any contested violations under
Chapter 72.
(Ord. 2013-010, passed 8-13-13; Am. Ord. 2013-013, passed 11-4-13)
§ 72.98 PAYMENT OF CIVIL PENALTY OR REQUEST FOR HEARING.
   (A)   Any person who receives a citation for a parking violation shall
respond to such citation within fourteen (14) calendar days of its issuance, by
making full payment of civil penalties, towing and/or storage charges incurred,
or shall request a hearing pursuant to
Chapter 71 of the Boone County Code of Ordinances, by notifying, in writing,
the Parking Violation Hearing Board through the County Judge/Executive’s Office
at 2950 Washington Street, Burlington, Kentucky 41005. After non-payment and
without properly notifying the Board of intent to contest within fourteen (14)
days of the issuance of the citation, a determination that the violation has
been committed is final.
   (B)   Civil penalties shall be paid to the Boone Fiscal Court through the
Boone County Finance Department at 2950 Washington Square, Burlington, Kentucky
41005. All civil penalties so collected shall be deposited in the general fund
of Boone County to be used for general expenses of the county.
   (C)   Towing and/or storage charges shall be paid directly to the provider
of that service.
(Ord. 2013-013, passed 11-4-13)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any section of this chapter shall be issued a
citation with a thirty dollar ($30.00) civil penalty for the first or second
violation within a consecutive three hundred sixty-five (365) have a sixty
dollar ($60.00) civil penalty. However, if the citation is unsuccessfully
contested, the violator may be assessed a civil penalty up to and including
five hundred dollars ($500.00). In addition to a civil penalty, the violator
shall pay any and all towing and/or storage charges. Each day that a violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense for which a citation may be
issued and a civil penalty imposed.
(Ord. 2013-013, passed 11-4-13)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND SKATEBOARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
   
73.03   Clinging to vehicles
Skateboards
   
73.15   Definitions
   
73.16   Operation on streets and sidewalks
   
73.17   Operation on private property
   
73.18   Citation for violation; confiscation of skateboard
All-Terrain Vehicles and Dirt Bike/Motocross
   
73.25   Definitions
   
73.26   Prohibitions and regulations
   
73.27   Motorcycle
   
73.28   Enforcement
   
73.29   Violations
   
73.30   Civil offense
Golf Carts
   
73.40      Definitions
   
73.41      Requirements
   
73.42      Designated city roadways/streets
   
73.43      Traffic and parking regulations
   
73.44      Exemptions
   
73.45      Towing and storage
   
73.46      Schedule of designated roadways
   
73.47      Federal or state statutes and regulations
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02(C)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot, or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on such bicycle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Bicycles; safety regulations and standards, see KRS 189.287
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Regulations for operating and riding on motorcycles, see KRS 189.285
§ 73.03 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates, or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of
any vehicle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
SKATEBOARDS
§ 73.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any natural person, partnership, corporation, joint venture,
unincorporated association of natural persons, or any combination thereof.
   SKATEBOARD. Any board or platform to which there are attached wheels for
movement thereof by either gravity or the muscular power of someone standing
upon the board or platform and which has no mechanism or other device with
which to steer or control the movement or direction of the board or platform.
(Ord. 91-002, passed 5-13-91)
§ 73.16 OPERATION ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall cause, permit, allow, or encourage or engage in any of the
following operations of a skateboard within the city:
   (A)   The operation of a skateboard upon, into or within the following
streets or highways located within the city:
      (1)   U.S. Highway 42;
      (2)   Hathaway Road (Highway 536);
      (3)   Mt. Zion Road;
      (4)   Gunpowder Road;
   (B)   The operation of a skateboard upon any sidewalk without yielding the
right-of-way to pedestrians thereon; or
   (C)   The construction of any skateboard ramp upon a street, highway or
sidewalk.
(Ord. 91-002, passed 5-13-91) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.17 OPERATION ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall operate a skateboard on any private property within
the city unless the person has obtained the written consent of the owner or
owners of the private property; and unless the person operating the skateboard
has in his or her possession at the time of operation the written consent of
the owner or owners of the private property on which he or she is operating the
skateboard.
   (B)   The written consent described in division (A) of this section shall
grant to the person named therein permission to operate a skateboard on the
property described in the consent. No more than one (1) person shall be named
as the permittee on a written consent. A written consent shall be invalid
unless the name of the permittee is written therein. A written consent shall
not be transferable.
   (C)   A person who is the owner of private property in the city, his or her
spouse, dependent children, or tenants and their children who reside upon the
property shall, without procuring the written consent described in division (A)
of this section, have the right to operate a skateboard on private property of
which they are bona fide owners, or the spouse or dependent children of the
owners, or tenants or dependent children of tenants who reside upon the
property.
(Ord. 91-002, passed 5-13-91) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.18 CITATION FOR VIOLATION; CONFISCATION OF SKATEBOARD.
   (A)   Any peace officer who issues a citation for violation of this
subchapter shall confiscate the skateboard used in the violation and place it
in the police property room.
   (B)   The skateboard may be returned to the violator or to a parent or
guardian of the violator, if the violator is a minor, after the following
periods of time:
      (1)   After thirty (30) days for a first violation of this subchapter;
      (2)   If any person commits a subsequent violation of this subchapter,
the skateboard used by such person in the violation shall be forfeited to the
city and disposed of in the manner prescribed by law for forfeited property.
(Ord. 91-002, passed 5-13-91)
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES AND DIRT BIKE/MOTOCROSS
§ 73.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL TERRAIN VEHICLE. This term shall have the same meaning provided
therefore in KRS 189.010, which is any motor vehicle used for recreational off-
road use.
   ANYBODY. Any human being, or any organization or combination thereof, in the
form of a corporation, partnership, joint venture, unincorporated, associated
or otherwise.
   ATV. All terrain vehicle.
   DIRT BIKE/MOTOCROSS. The terms shall have the same meaning provided
therefore in KRS 189.010, which is any motorcycle registered and manufactured
for recreational off-road use only.
   EVERYBODY. Every human being, or any organization of combination thereof, in
the form of a corporation, partnership, joint venture, unincorporated,
associated or otherwise.
   MOTORCYCLE. The term shall have the same meaning provided therefore in KRS
189.285, which is any motor driven vehicles having a seat or saddle for the
operator and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels.
(Ord. 2006-003, passed 2-13-06)
§ 73.26 PROHIBITIONS AND REGULATIONS.
   Nobody shall cause, promote, aid, assist, encourage, allow or engage in the
operation of any ATV, dirt bike/motocross, and/or off-road motorcycles on
private property within the city:
   (A)   Without first causing the ATV, and/or dirt bike/motocross to be
registered with the City Clerk, by completing a form therefore provided by the
City Clerk and paying a registration fee of ten dollars ($10.00).
   (B)   Before 9:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m., prevailing time, on any day.
   (C)   On any lot or parcel of real estate that consists of less than five
(5) acres.
   (D)   Without the muffler system provided by the manufacturer of the ATV,
dirt bike/motocross, as provided by the manufacturer, without any modification
thereof other than like kind parts replacement, and which prevents the emission
of sound from the ATV, dirt bike and/or off-road motorcycles in excess of the
levels identified in 40 CFR 205.166 motorcycles.
   (E)   At any speed in excess of the minimum speed required to maintain the
forward motion of the ATV, dirt bike/motocross being operated on private
property while it is within five hundred feet (500) feet of any dwelling on a
lot or parcel of real estate other than that upon which the ATV, dirt bike/
motocross and/or off-road motorcycle is being operated.
   (F)   Except that an ATV can be used for utilitarian purposes on parcels of
real estate less than five (5) acres when they are maintaining speeds not to
exceed seven (7) miles per hour in a safe manner, such as snow removal, tool or
utility trailer usage, and/or yard work.
(Ord. 2006-003, passed 2-13-06) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.27 MOTORCYCLE.
   Nothing in this subchapter will affect the operation of motorcycles in the
city on the public roadways which vehicles are regulated and controlled under
the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
(Ord. 2006-003, passed 2-13-06)
§ 73.28 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter may be enforced through either or both:
   (A)   Criminal prosecutions; and
   (B)   Civil prosecutions pursuant to the provisions of the Local Government
Code Enforcement Board Act as KRS 65.8801 through 65.8839.
(Ord. 2006-003, passed 2-13-06)
§ 73.29 VIOLATIONS.
   A violation of this subchapter occurs upon any noncompliance with any
provision of this subchapter, by either act or omission; and each and every
separate non-continuing occurrence thereof, and each and every day of any
continuing occurrence thereof is a separate violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2006-003, passed 2-13-06)
§ 73.30 CIVIL OFFENSE.
   Each separate violation of §
73.26 is hereby classified as a civil offense, for which:
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 65.8808(3)(b), the maximum civil fine that may be
imposed for each separate violation of §
73.26, is hereby established as five hundred dollars ($500.00) plus collection
costs and attorney’s fee, if any; and
   (B)   Pursuant to KRS 65.8808(2)(c) the specific civil fine that will be
imposed for each separate offense and violation of §
73.26 is hereby established as one hundred dollars ($100.00) plus collection
costs and attorney’s fees, if any; unless the citation therefore is contested.
   (C)   An enforcement officer, may, in lieu of immediately issuing a civil
action, give notice that the violation of §
73.26 shall be remedied within a specific period of time.
GOLF CARTS
§ 73.40 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the term GOLF CART means any self-propelled vehicle
that:
   (A)   Is designed for the transportation of players or maintaining equipment
on a golf course, while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising the play of
golf, or maintaining the condition of the grounds on a golf course;
   (B)   Has a minimum of four (4) wheels;
   (C)   Is designed to operate at a speed of not more than thirty-five (35)
miles per hour;
   (D)   Is designed to carry not more than six (6) persons, including the
driver;
   (E)   Has a maximum gross vehicle weight of two thousand five hundred
(2,500) pounds;
   (F)   Has a maximum rated payload capacity of one thousand two hundred (1
,200) pounds; and
   (G)   Is equipped with the following:
      (1)   Headlamps;
      (2)   Tail lamps;
      (3)   Stop lamps;
      (4)   Front and rear turn signals;
      (5)   One (1) red reflex reflector on each side as far to rear as
practicable, and one (1) red reflex reflector on the rear;
      (6)   An exterior mirror mounted on the driver's side of the vehicle and
either an exterior mirror mounted on the passenger's side of the vehicle or an
interior mirror;
      (7)   A parking brake;
      (8)   For each designated seating position, a seatbelt assembly that
conforms to the federal motor vehicle safety standard provided in 49 CFR
571.209; and
      (9)   A horn that meets the requirements of KRS 189.080.
(Ord. 2024-15, passed 9-16-24)
§ 73.41 REQUIREMENTS.
   In order to be operated on a designated city roadway, a golf cart shall:
   (A)   Be issued a permit for the golf cart by the city;
   (B)   Display a sticker or permit that identifies that the golf cart is
allowed to be operated on specific roadways within the city;
   (C)   Be inspected by a certified inspector designated by the Boone County
Sheriff’s Office and certified through the Department of Vehicle Regulation to
ensure that the golf cart complies with the requirements of this section. The
inspection fee under this division shall be five dollars ($5.00) if the
inspection occurs at the Sheriff’s inspection site or ten dollars ($10.00) per
trip charged if it becomes necessary for the certified inspector to travel to
the site of the golf cart rather than having the golf cart brought to the
Sheriff’s inspection site;
   (D)   Display a slow-moving vehicle emblem in compliance with KRS 189.820;
   (E)   Be insured in compliance with KRS 304.39-080 by the owner or operator,
and the proof of insurance shall be inside the golf cart at all times of
operation on a city roadway;
   (F)   Be operated only between sunrise and sunset;
   (G)   Be operated by a person with a valid operator's license in his or her
possession;
   (H)   Be restricted such that the operation of a golf cart does not cross
any roadway at an intersection where the roadway being crossed has a posted
speed limit of more than thirty-five (35) miles per hour and does not cross any
state route that has been prohibited by the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet;
and
   (I)   Be operated only on a designated city street approved by the City
Commission and listed in this code.
(Ord. 2024-15, passed 9-16-24)
§ 73.42 DESIGNATED CITY ROADWAYS/STREETS.
   (A)   Golf carts may only be operated on designated city roadways whose
speed limits are twenty-five (25) miles per hour or less and are approved by
the City Commission. Approved city roadways will be listed in the schedule of
designated roadways in this code.
   (B)   Any citizen may request the addition of the city street on which they
reside as a “designated city roadway” by completing an application for
designation of a city roadway for golf cart operation (herein referred to as
“application”) and submitting the “application” to the City Commission for
review. The roadway requested must meet all requirements set forth in this
chapter. Every “application” must include a petition signed by no fewer than
ten (10) separate/unique owners of property (or fifty percent (50%) for
roadways with fewer than twenty (20) homes) on the street/roadway to be
impacted. The City Commission shall consider the "application" and may grant
approval or disapproval of the “application.”
   (C)   Any citizen, group of citizens or neighborhood homeowners association
may request the addition of multiple city roadways within a neighborhood as
"designated city roadways" by completing an application for designation of city
roadway for golf cart operation (herein referred to as "application") which
shall provide the names of the roadways requested and submitting the
"application" to the City Commission for review. The roadways requested must
meet all requirements set forth in this chapter. Every "application" must
include a petition signed by no fewer than twenty- five (25) separate/unique
owners of property (or fifty percent (50%) of the total number of occupied
homes, rounded down if necessary to the nearest whole number, for neighborhoods
with fewer than fifty (50) homes) from the streets/roadways to be impacted. The
City Commission shall consider the "application" and may grant approval or
disapproval of the "application" in whole or in part.
(Ord. 2024-15, passed 9-16-24)
§ 73.43 TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Any person operating a golf cart on a city roadway under the
provisions of this chapter shall be subject to all traffic regulations of KRS
Ch. 189 and any other applicable provisions of this code pertaining to the
operation of vehicles upon city streets and roadways.
   (B)   Golf carts are not permitted to be parked on or across a city roadway,
sidewalk or multi- use pathway. Any person violating this section shall be
subject to the penalty sections as listed in §§
73.45 and
73.99.
(Ord. 2024-15, passed 9-16-24)
§ 73.44 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Golf carts operating on a city roadway are not considered to be a
motor vehicle and are exempt from:
      (1)   Title requirements of KRS 186.020;
      (2)   Vehicle registration requirements of KRS 186.050; and
      (3)   Emissions compliance certificates pursuant to KRS 224.20-720.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to a golf cart that
is not used on a city roadway except to cross a roadway while following a golf
cart path on a golf course.
(Ord. 2024-15, passed 9-16-24)
§ 73.45 TOWING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   An officer is authorized to have a towing service remove any golf cart
or other self- propelled means of transportation from a city roadway to a
storage facility when not operating with a valid permit as required in this
subchapter, not possessing an element required by state statute or city
ordinance, when parked upon a city roadway, sidewalk or multi-use path or
otherwise not in conformity with state statute or city ordinance.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to a motorized disability access vehicle
or a battery operated unit which serves the sole purpose as a child's toy and
not for transportation.
   (C)   The golf cart or self-propelled means of transportation shall be
released from the storage facility to the owner or other person proving
sufficient proof of right to take ownership upon approval by the Sheriff’s
Department and payment of all towing and storage charges.
(Ord. 2024-15, passed 9-16-24)
§ 73.46 SCHEDULE OF DESIGNATED ROADWAYS.
   It shall be lawful for any person who meets all requirements of this code,
to operate a golf cart upon designated city streets and roadways approved
pursuant to this subchapter.
(Ord. 2024-15, passed 9-16-24)
§ 73.47 FEDERAL OR STATE STATUTES AND REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter are subordinate to any federal or state
law or regulation that pertains to the subject matter contained within this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2024-15, passed 9-16-24)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
73.01 through
73.03 of this chapter shall be deemed to have committed a violation and shall
be fined not more than fifty dollars ($50.00) for each offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the terms or provisions of §§
73.15 through
73.18 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof in a court of competent
jurisdiction, be deemed guilty of a violation and sentenced to pay a fine of no
more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each violation.
   (C)   Each separate violation of §
73.26 is hereby classified as a criminal offense and designated as a violation,
for which there is hereby imposes a criminal fine, not to exceed the maximum of
two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00), as provided in KRS 534.040(2).
   (D)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
73.40 through
73.47 shall, upon conviction of a first offense, be guilty of a violation and
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not more than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). Any person convicted of a subsequent violation
of §§
73.40 through
73.47 within two (2) years of a prior conviction under §§
73.40 through
73.47, shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. 91-002, passed 5-13-91; Am. Ord. 2006-003, passed 2-13-06; Am. Ord. 2024-
15, passed 9-16-24)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   One-way streets
SCHEDULE I. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The following streets are designated one-way streets:
 
Description                                           Direction Ord. No.
Sycamore Drive at the intersection with Mt. Zion Road West      98-009
Penalty, see §
71.99(C)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
91A.   RESERVED
      
91B.   SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE
      
92.   PUBLIC NUISANCES
      
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   LITTERING
      
95.   RESERVED
      
95A.   CEMETERIES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.04   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.05   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.06   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
Dogs
   
90.15   Definition
   
90.16   License required
   
90.17   Registration and issuance of license
   
90.18   License tag to be attached to dog
   
90.19   Dogs running at large
   
90.20   Noise disturbance
   
90.21   Impoundment
   
90.22   Reclaiming impounded dog
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animals as a public nuisance, see §
92.03(E),(G)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. Abandonment shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and
claims by the owner to such animal.
(KRS 257.100(4))
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his agent either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his care, or permits it to remain on
or about the premises owned or occupied by him.
§ 90.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or permit it to go on any private yard, lot, or enclosure without the
consent of the owner of the yard, lot, or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by such animal upon the premises
of another.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when,
except as authorized by law, he intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in §
90.03 in causing it to fight for pleasure or profit (including, but not limited
to, being a spectator or vendor at an event where a four legged animal is
caused to fight for pleasure or profit), mutilation, beating, torturing any
animal other than a dog or cat, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food,
drink, space, or health care, or by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This section shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including but not
limited to horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows, or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with U.S. Department of Agriculture
under the Animal Welfare Act or subject to other federal laws governing animal
research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
(KRS 525.130) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a Class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 90.04 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits, under two (2) months of age in any
quantity less than six (6) except that any rabbit weighing three (3) pounds or
more may be sold at an age of six (6) weeks.
(KRS 436.600) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, animal control officer, or any person authorized by
the board may destroy or kill or cause to be destroyed or killed, any animal
found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or appearing to be
injured, diseased, or suffering past recovery for any useful purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian, or of two (2) reputable citizens called by him
to view the animal in his presence, or shall obtain consent to the destruction
from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding, or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or
his agent for a period of more than ten (10) days after written notice by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or
his agent at his last known address, shall be deemed to be abandoned and may be
turned over to the nearest humane society or animal shelter or disposed of as
such custodian may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed veterinarian shall relieve the licensed veterinarian and
any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
(KRS 257.100)
DOGS
§ 90.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family, six (6) months of age or over, male or
female.
§ 90.16 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep a dog or dogs in the city
without first obtaining a license for each dog. This section and §
90.17 shall not apply to dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within
the city for a period less than thirty (30) days.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 REGISTRATION AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All dogs kept in the city shall be registered with Boone County as per
county regulations. At the time of the registration, the owner shall obtain a
license tag for the dog and shall pay a fee as established by Boone County for
each dog.
   (B)   A new tag shall be obtained each year by every owner and a new fee
paid.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 LICENSE TAG TO BE ATTACHED TO DOG.
   The license tag shall be fastened to the collar of the dog and shall be worn
continuously, and the failure to have the tag so attached shall subject the
owner or keeper thereof to the penalties provided herein.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog, either licensed or
unlicensed, regardless of the age of the dog, to allow the dog to be at large
and unattended or to run in any street, park, lawn, garden, schoolyard,
playground, or on any other public or private property.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.20 NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the city which, by frequent
and habitual barking, howling, or yelping, creates unreasonably loud and
disturbing noises of such a character, intensity, and duration as to disturb
the peace, quiet, and good order of one or more of the inhabitants of two (2)
or more separate residences. Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to
remain, be lodged, or fed within any dwelling, yard, or enclosure which he
occupies or owns shall be considered as harboring the dog.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every police officer, peace officer, or other authorized official shall have
the authority to apprehend any dog running at large in violation of this
chapter and any unlicensed dog in the city, and to impound such dog or have
such dog impounded in the appropriate place.
§ 90.22 RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED DOG.
   The owner of any dog so impounded may reclaim the dog upon the payment of
all appropriate fees and after fulfilling any and all other requirements.
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
each offense. Each day the violation exists shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates §
90.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00), imprisoned for not more than twelve (12) months, or
both for each offense.
      (2)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to an offense under
subsection §
90.03 arising from the person’s treatment of an equine, the court may impose
one or both of the following penalties against the person, in addition to fines
and imprisonment:
         (a)   An order that the person pay restitution for damage to the
property of others and for costs incurred by others, including reasonable
costs, as determined by agreement or by the court after a hearing, incurred in
feeding, sheltering, veterinary treatment, and incidental care of any equine
that was the subject of the offense resulting in conviction; or
         (b)   An order terminating or imposing conditions on the person’s
right to possession, title, custody, or care of any equine that was the subject
of the offense resulting in conviction.
      (3)   If a person’s ownership interest in an equine is terminated by a
judicial order under division (B)(2)(b) of this section, the court may order
the sale, conveyance, or other disposition of the equine that was the subject
of the offense resulting in conviction.
(KRS 525.130)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
90.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(KRS 436.600)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
91.01   Permission and bond required
   
91.02   Application and cash deposit
   
91.03   Restoration of pavement
   
91.04   Barriers around excavations
   
91.05   Warning lights
   
91.06   [Reserved]
   
91.07   [Reserved]
   
91.08   Storm drainage pipes under driveways
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.15   Public meeting required
   
91.16   Notice requirements; public may testify
   
91.17   Effect of testimony
   
91.18   Meeting to be held prior to construction
   
91.19   Separate meeting for each project not required
   
91.20   Exemptions from meeting requirement
Obstructions
   
91.30   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.31   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.32   Materials on street or sidewalk
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Deposit of mud and debris on city streets, see §
92.07
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.01 PERMISSION AND BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of KRS 85.140, authority to establish
street regulations, whenever it becomes necessary to open any of the streets of
the city through excavating or digging, the person desiring to do the work
shall make application to the City Clerk for permission to do so, and shall
accompany the application with a map or diagram showing the place where the
street is to be opened, the width and depth of the excavation, the estimated
length of time the street is to remain open, and the name of the person whose
property is to benefit by reason of the opening excavation.
   (B)   Every application shall be accompanied by a bond to the city in the
amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), signed by the applicant and a
surety company registered under the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky. This
bond shall specify that in the event the city is sued because of injuries
sustained, or property damaged by reason of such excavation, the principal and
surety in the bond will, to the extent of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) pay
any judgment obtained by the claimant, and will pay the court cost and
attorneys' fees incurred by the city.
(Ord. 98-007, passed 10-12-98)
§ 91.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the City Commission or other authorized city official.
Application shall be made on a form prescribed by the City Commission, giving
the exact location of the proposed opening, the kind of paving, the area and
depth to be excavated, and such other facts as may be provided for. The permit
shall be issued only after a cash deposit sufficient to cover the cost of
restoration has been posted with the City Commission or other authorized city
official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of excavations and
restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 91.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   Every person making application for permission to open or excavate any
street in the city shall agree to restore the street to the same condition that
it was prior to the opening or excavation, to keep this portion of the street
in repair for a period of one (1) year after the opening or excavation, and to
assume liability for any injuries sustained by any person, or damages to any
property, caused by reason of the opening or excavation.
(Ord. 98-007, passed 10-12-98)
   (B)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the City Commission or
other authorized city official, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and
specifications approved by the City Commission.
   (C)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make such fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
91.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate city fund, except such part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of such services performed by the city
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the City Clerk or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
§ 91.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds fifty (50) feet in extent, at least one additional lamp
for each added fifty (50) feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.06 [RESERVED].
§ 91.07 [RESERVED].
§ 91.08 STORM DRAINAGE PIPES UNDER DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   The minimum requirements for storm drainage entrance pipes under
driveways connecting with the various streets shall meet the Boone County
subdivision regulations. No entrance pipe shall have an inside diameter of less
than twelve (12) inches.
(B)   Before storm drainage entrance pipes are placed under any driveway, a
permit shall be obtained from the city. Such work shall proceed under the
direction of the City Engineer. At the discretion of the City Commission, any
entrance pipe installed contrary to the provisions of this section may be
ordered removed at the cost of the owner of the abutting property.
(Ord. 98-007, passed 10-12-98)
Statutory reference:
   Sidewalks; construction along public roads; specifications, see KRS 178.290
   Sidewalks; ramps for wheelchairs, see KRS 66.660
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.15 PUBLIC MEETING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street, or bridge it shall provide an opportunity to the public to
provide input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS
61.823(2) to (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax
moneys for road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 91.16 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS; PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a specific
item on the public meeting agenda and shall allow any person to speak with
regard to any proposed project, any project which he or she feels should be
built or done which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of
projects, and any other matter related to road or bridge projects.
(KRS 174.100(1))
§ 91.17 EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100(2))
§ 91.18 MEETING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting as provided herein
has been held.
(KRS 174.100(3))
§ 91.19 SEPARATE MEETING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting for
each project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
meeting, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(4))
§ 91.20 EXEMPTIONS FROM MEETING REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or man-caused disasters
nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100(5))
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.30 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.31 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.32 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see
Ch. 94
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00).
CHAPTER 91A: RESERVED
CHAPTER 91B: SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE
Section
   
91B.01   Definitions
   
91B.02   Sidewalk construction
   
91B.03   Sidewalk repair policy
   
91B.04   Streets and sidewalks - statutory jurisdiction
   
91B.05   Repair of unsafe sidewalks
   
91B.06   Sidewalk conditions and repairs - responsibilities
   
91B.07   Power of city to have property owners repair sidewalks
 
   
91B.99   Penalty
§ 91B.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY AUTHORITY. Any government authority that is in charge of any department
or branch of the government of the city relating to safety, health, building
regulations or construction of concrete or asphalt surfaces in the city.
   CITY OFFICER. The officer or officers who are authorized by ordinances and
resolutions adopted by the City Commission to exercise the powers prescribed
herein.
   GOVERNING BODY. The City of Union Commission.
   HAZARDOUS SIDEWALKS. A concrete sidewalk or sections of sidewalk, having
been originally constructed in accordance with the city's minimum standards of
construction within the limits of a public right-of-way, shall be deemed to be
unsafe when the surface of the sidewalk has deteriorated significantly due to
excessive cracking and separations, and more specifically, a vertical
settlement, deviation or deflection of at least one (1)-inch measured at a
separation or at a construction joint.
   MOTORIZED DISABILITY ACCESS VEHICLE. A vehicle designed primarily for and
used by a disabled individual and not capable of operating at a speed greater
than thirty (30) miles per hour on level ground.
   MOTORIZED VEHICLE. A self-propelled apparatus where propulsion is provided
primarily by an engine or motor.
   MULTI-USE PATH. A permanent paved area that is physically separated from
motorized vehicular traffic by an open space or barrier used by pedestrians and
other non-motorized users.
   NON-HAZARDOUS SIDEWALKS. A concrete sidewalk or section of sidewalk which
does not fully fall under the definition of a HAZARDOUS SIDEWALK but is
aesthetically unacceptable and has serious defects, which warrant improved
pedestrian safety, repairs or replacements.
   OWNER. The holder of title in fee simple of the land over which the sidewalk
is constructed and every mortgagee of record unless the sidewalk is located
within the city and/or county right-of-way in which case OWNER means the holder
of title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record of the land adjoining the
right-of-way.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations, corporations, or other
entities who have an interest of record in the land over which the sidewalk is
constructed unless the sidewalk is located within the city right-of-way in
which case PARTIES OF INTEREST means the individuals, associations,
corporations or other entities who have an interest of record in the land
adjoining the right-of-way.
   POWER OF CITY TO REPAIR UNFIT SIDEWALKS. Whenever the City Commission finds
that there exists in the city sidewalks that are unsafe or hazardous due to
deterioration, damage and/or disrepair that endanger the inhabitants of the
city, the city may repair the sidewalks in the manner provided herein.
   RESOLUTIONS RELATING TO UNFIT SIDEWALKS. Upon finding that conditions of the
character described hereinunder exist within the city, the City Administrative
Officer shall file a complaint with the Union/Walton Code Enforcement Board.
The Board shall hold a due process hearing and shall determine whether there is
a violation/hazard and order remediation and/or fines in accordance with the
terms of this chapter.
   SIDEWALK. Any permanent walkway or footpath constructed of a hard surface
such as concrete or asphalt and located near or on the edge of a lot or in any
location that the walkway appears to be for the convenience of the general
public.
   SIDEWALKS AND MULTI-USE PATHS.
      (1)   No motorized vehicles, unless specifically permitted in this
chapter, shall be operated on or upon any sidewalk or multi-use path except
when safely entering or exiting a legal parking space, driveway, or roadway as
necessary, and then only after yielding to all persons operating lawfully using
a sidewalk or multi-use path and when doing so will not cause any person using
the sidewalk or multi-use path to collide with the motorized vehicle.
      (2)   A motorized disability access vehicle, as defined in this
subchapter, shall be permitted to operate upon any sidewalk or multi-use path.
      (3)   A battery-operated motorized unit, which serves a sole purpose as a
child's toy and not for transportation, shall be permitted to operate on or
upon any sidewalk or multi-use path when doing so will not cause any person
lawfully using the sidewalk or multi-use path to collide with the motorized
unit.
      (4)   Any person who violates this section shall be issued a citation
pursuant to section §
71.99 of the Boone County, Kentucky, Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 2024-20, passed 12-16-24)
§ 91B.02 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the Public Works Director to supervise construction
or repair of sidewalks within the city. He or she shall cause specifications to
be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of pavements and transmit
the specifications to the City Commission for approval. When the specifications
are approved, the City Commission shall advertise for a proposal to do all the
work which may be ordered by the city in construction and repair of sidewalks
and shall contract therefor for a period not exceeding a year, with the best
and lowest responsible bidder, who shall furnish good and sufficient sureties
for the faithful performance of the work. The City Commission may make separate
contracts for the different kinds of work with different parties.
(Ord. 2024-20, passed 12-16-24)
§ 91B.03 SIDEWALK REPAIR POLICY.
   (A)   The repair or replacement of sidewalks is the responsibility of the
adjacent property owner, but such repair or reconstruction has been done in
accordance to city and/or Boone County specifications.
   (B)   This policy shall apply only to sidewalks within the boundaries of
city rights-of-way, and the repair or replacement of all sidewalks on private
property is the responsibility of the real property owner.
   (C)   The city shall spend a maximum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) on
sidewalk repairs per fiscal year to ease the financial burden on responsible
property owners. Priority of repairs will focus on safety, sidewalks with
public infrastructure embedded, and the annual city street repair program.
Approval of sidewalk repairs to be managed by Public Works Director.
(Ord. 2024-20, passed 12-16-24)
§ 91B.04 STREETS AND SIDEWALKS - STATUTORY JURISDICTION.
   KRS Chapter 100.277(4) mandates cities to automatically accept "any street,"
but public sidewalks are not defined. While the space between the street curb
and property owner's front property line is a public right-of-way, the city is
not responsible to maintain grassed areas, driveways and aprons, sidewalks,
trees or other utilities.
(Ord. 2024-20, passed 12-16-24)
§ 91B.05 REPAIR OF UNSAFE SIDEWALKS.
   Easements granted for installation and maintenance of sidewalks. By
installing a sidewalk in the city right-of-way the installer and all subsequent
owners of the adjacent real property are deemed to have been granted an
easement for purposes of installing and maintaining sidewalks as well as
maintenance and repair of the sidewalk.
(Ord. 2024-20, passed 12-16-24)
§ 91B.06 SIDEWALK CONDITIONS AND REPAIRS - RESPONSIBILITIES.
   Following citizen complaints, observations and/or the annual inspection
program, the city shall identify and list the following responsibilities:
   (A)   Along KYTC highways including US 42 and/or SR 536. The KYTC owns and
maintains the state roadway infrastructure from back-of-curb to back-of-curb.
However, the KYTC has deferred responsibility to “regularly” maintain sidewalks
or pedestrian ways to cities within the Commonwealth's public rights-of-way. As
such, it shall be the city's responsibility to work directly with the KYTC
regarding damaged and/or deteriorated sidewalks or pedestrian ways within the
Commonwealth's public rights-of-way. When such hazardous or non-hazardous
sidewalks or pedestrian ways including ADA handicapped curb ramps, or in the
absence thereof, have been deemed to be unsafe for pedestrians, the city shall
cooperate with KYTC in order to adequately protect pedestrians using such
public way within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Along streets within condominium owner associations (COAs). Sidewalks
within COAs are outside of public rights-of-way and within the associations'
declared "common areas." Thus, COAs are solely responsible for maintaining
sidewalks within COAs. When hazardous or non-hazardous sidewalks are observed
and/or inspected, the city shall contact the COAs regarding the need for
repairs.
   (C)   Along streets within home owners associations (HOAs). Sidewalks within
HOAs are within public rights-of-way and border the associations' declared
"common areas." Thus, the HOAs are responsible for maintaining sidewalks within
HOAs. When hazardous or non-hazardous sidewalks are observed or inspected, the
city shall contact the HOAs and/or homeowners regarding the need for repairs.
   (D)   Along streets within city public rights-of-way. Hazardous or non-
hazardous sidewalks (See §
91B.01). The property owners fronting such sidewalks are responsible for repair
or replacement of such sidewalks.
(Ord. 2024-20, passed 12-16-24)
§ 91B.07 POWER OF CITY TO HAVE PROPERTY OWNERS REPAIR SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   When the city official finds sidewalks to be unsafe or defective, the
city may proceed to have the abutting property owners repair or replace the
sidewalks;
   (B)   In the event the repairs and/or replacement had not been completed
upon notice to the property owner the city may refer the matter to the Union/
Walton Code Enforcement Board;
   (C)   In the event three (3) or more residents file a petition with the City
Administrative Officer alleging a sidewalk is defective or unsafe. Upon city
inspection determining a defective sidewalk, the city officer shall notify the
adjacent property owner or owners of the complaint. In the event the property
owner does not take remedial action within ninety (90) days of being served the
notice, the city may refer the matter to the Union/Walton Code Enforcement
Board; and
   (D)   If the property owners fail to comply, the city may repair and place a
lien on the adjacent property owner or owners fronting the subject sidewalk.
(Ord. 2024-20, passed 12-16-24)
§ 91B.99 PENALTY.
   The following penalties shall apply to violation of this chapter:
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter shall be subject to a civil fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50)
per day, per violation but not more than five hundred dollars ($500) per day
per violation, or the cost to the city to abate the public nuisance, or both.
Each day that a violation of this chapter continues after due notice has been
served in accordance with the terms of this chapter may be deemed a separate
offense to a maximum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) per citation.
   (B)   As an additional alternative remedy to the above penalty, any violator
who violates any provision of this chapter and has been previously issued two
(2) or more citations for violation of this chapter relating to the same
property within a twelve (12)-month period may be assessed additional civil
penalties of five hundred dollars ($500) per day per violation to a maximum of
five thousand dollars ($5,000) per citation.
(Ord. 2024-20, passed 12-16-24)
CHAPTER 92: PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Purpose
   
92.02   Intent
   
92.03   Application of other codes
   
92.04   Conflict with other ordinances or regulations
   
92.05   Remedies
   
92.06   Workmanship
   
92.07   Definitions
   
92.08   Nuisances described and prohibited
   
92.09   Signs
   
92.10   Buildings
   
92.11   Graffiti
   
92.12   Disturbing and unnecessary noises
   
92.13   Exceptions
   
92.14   Vehicles
   
92.15   Rubbish
   
92.16   Liens
 
   
92.99   Penalties
§ 92.01 PURPOSE.
   The City of Union, Kentucky Nuisance Code (hereinafter "Code") is designed
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare by establishing pursuant to
KRS 65.8801 to KRS 65.8839 what constitutes a nuisance on residential and non-
residential properties with and without structures, and prohibiting public
nuisances that substantially annoy, injure, or endanger the public or
unlawfully or substantially interfere with the use and enjoyment of private or
public property, and fixing the responsibilities of owners, operators, and
occupants of all residential and non-residential structures, and premises.
Enforcement shall be on a complaint driven basis.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-5-16)
§ 92.02 INTENT.
   This chapter shall be construed liberally and justly to insure public
health, safety, and welfare insofar as the public is effected by the continued
use and maintenance of structures and premises in violation of this chapter.
However, the provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to prevent the
enforcement of other applicable ordinances or regulations. The provisions of
KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839 shall apply to the processes and procedures for
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-5-16)
§ 92.03 APPLICATION OF OTHER CODES.
   Any repairs, alterations, or changes to a structure, which are caused
directly or indirectly by the enforcement of this chapter, shall be done in
accordance with the procedures and provisions of any other existing codes used
and enforced by the city, including but not limited to the adopted Property
Maintenance Code, the Kentucky Building Code, including all references codes
therein, and the Kentucky Standards of Safety.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-5-16)
§ 92.04 CONFLICT WITH OTHER ORDINANCES OR REGULATIONS.
   In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict
with any existing code, ordinance, or regulation of the city, the provision
that establishes the highest standard shall apply, so long as the penalty for
violation of that provision is civil in nature. If the penalty of the provision
establishing the highest standard is not civil in nature, then this chapter
shall be the prevailing authority, with the exception of the Kentucky Building
Code, and all codes referenced therein including the Fire Prevention Code, Life
Safety Code, the National Electrical Code, and the Kentucky Standards of Safety
which shall control over conflicting city ordinances.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-5-16)
§ 92.05 REMEDIES.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to abolish or impair
existing or other remedies of the city or its officers or agencies relating to
the removal or demolition of any buildings that are dangerous, unsafe, or
unsanitary.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-5-16)
§ 92.06 WORKMANSHIP.
   All repairs, maintenance, alterations, or installations that are required
for compliance with this chapter shall be executed and installed in a
workmanlike manner.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-5-16)
§ 92.07 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning of the
word being defined:
   ABANDON. To give up or relinquish one's interest or right in property.
   ABATEMENT COSTS. A city's necessary and reasonable costs for and associated
with clearing, preventing unauthorized entry to, or demolishing all or a
portion of a structure or premises, or taking any other action with regard to a
structure or premises necessary to remedy a violation and to maintain and
preserve the public health, safety and welfare in accordance with any city
ordinance.
   ANYBODY. Any human being, or any organization or combination thereof, in the
form of a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture,
unincorporated association or otherwise.
   ALTER or ALTERATION. Any change or modification in the construction or
occupancy of a building or structure.
   AEROSOL PAINT CONTAINER. Any aerosol container, regardless of the material
from which it is made, that is adopted or made for the purpose of spraying
paint capable of defacing property.
   APPROVED. Approved by the Chairman of the Union/Walton Joint Code
Enforcement Board, or any of his or her assistants, staff, employees, or
assigns.
   ALL TERRAIN VEHICLE. Shall have the same meaning provided therefore in KRS
189.010, which is a motor vehicle is used for recreational off-road use.
   AUTOMOBILE COLLECTOR. A person who collects and restores motor vehicles.
   BANNER SIGN. Any commercial sign composed of any pliable plastic or cloth,
without a rigid supporting frame.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building or structure located partly underground,
but having less than one-half of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the
average grade of the adjoining ground.
   BUILDING. Any structure, constructed on, below, or above ground, for the
support, shelter, or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels, or property of
any kind. The term BUILDING shall be construed as if followed by the words, "or
any part thereof."
   BUILDING CODE. The Kentucky Building Code, as adopted by the county in §
150.01 of the County Code of Ordinances.
   CART. Any cart, wagon, or similar device, regardless of means of propulsion,
made of wire, metal, wood or other material, such as is generally provided by
merchants for carting or carrying merchandise or food stuffs from said
merchants' store or buildings to automobiles or other places without said
merchants' building or store.
   CITY. The City of Union, Boone County, Kentucky, including any departments,
divisions, boards, or agencies thereof.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. The Union Code Enforcement Board.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. As defined in KRS 65.8801 et seq. and any employee
of Boone County Building/Housing Department charged with the enforcement of
this chapter as a code enforcement/citation officer, exclusive of clerical and
administrative staff, as well as the City Administrative Officer, police and
fire safety officers.
   CONTROL. To exercise restraint or direction over.
   DELIVER. Includes any manner of delivery that conforms to the federal and
state constitutional requirements for procedural due process.
   DISORDERLY MANNER. Any manner that unreasonably causes inconvenience,
annoyance or alarm to any member of the public or anybody using any other lot
or parcel of real estate within or outside of the city, or wantonly creates a
risk thereof.
   DWELLING. Any building that is wholly or partly used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating by human occupants, whether or not
such building is occupied or vacant, provided that temporary housing as
hereinafter defined shall not be regarded as a dwelling. The term dwelling
shall be construed as if followed by the words, "or any part thereof."
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities that are used or intended to be
used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating, whether or not such unit is
occupied or vacant. The term DWELLING UNIT shall be construed as if followed by
the words, "or any part thereof."
   ELECTRICAL CODE. The Kentucky Building Code, as adopted by the county in §
150.01 of the County Code of Ordinances.
   EVERYBODY. Every human being and every organization or combination thereof.
In the form of a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint
venture, unincorporated association or otherwise.
   FINAL ORDER. Any order:
      (1)   Issued by the Code Enforcement Board following a hearing in
accordance with this chapter;
      (2)   Created because a violator neither paid nor contested the citation
within seven (7) days as provided in this chapter; or
      (3)   Created because a violator failed to appear at a hearing the
violator requested to contest the citation as provided in this chapter.
   FIRE CODE. The Kentucky Building Code, as adopted by the county in §
150.01 of the County Code of Ordinances and all Codes and Standards as
referenced therein along with the Kentucky Standards of Safety.
   FOWL. Any hen, rooster, chicken, duck, turkey, pheasant or any of several
other, usually gallinaceous birds.
   GARBAGE. The organic, animal, and vegetable waste resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking, and consumption of food or food products. Other
general organic materials such as paper and cardboard are also garbage.
   GRAFFITI. Any inscription, drawing or design that is scratched, painted,
sprayed or placed on any surface of any structure without the consent or
authority of the owner thereof, and which is within the view from any public
property or right of way.
   HEARING BOARD. The Union Code Enforcement Board as established by ordinance
and empowered to conduct hearings pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to KRS 65.8840.
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that is: unlicensed as required by
KRS 186.020; is in a state of disrepair, caused by wreckage to the vehicle or
disassembly; mechanically inoperable; or legally inoperable on public streets
and highways.
   LIVESTOCK. Animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, camelide
and cervid species, including, without limitation, horses, cattle, sheep, swine
and goats.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The City of Union, Boone County, Kentucky.
   MARKER PEN. Any indelible marker or similar implement with a writing tip
exceeding four millimeters in width that contains solution that cannot be
removed with water after it dries.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every four (4) wheel vehicle intended primarily for use and
operation on the public highways that is self-propelled, including low-speed
motor vehicles as defined in KRS 186.010, but shall not include any motorcycle,
recreational vehicle or farm tractors and other machines and tools used in the
production, harvesting, and care of farm products.
   NUISANCE CODE. This chapter adopted by the city pursuant to KRS 381.770 and
incorporated herein by reference the provisions of the International Property
Maintenance Code , published by the International Code Council Inc. as amended
from time to time and all amendments are hereby is incorporated by reference
into this Code as if fully set forth herein.
   OCCUPANT. Any person living, sleeping, cooking, or eating in, or having
actual possession of a dwelling unit, rooming unit, building, or portion of a
building.
   OPEN BURNING FOR THE PURPOSE OF LAND CLEARING. The burning of downed trees
and other forms of vegetation that have been cut or knocked down for the
purpose of clearing an area of land in excess of 200 square feet that may be
used for future development.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care, or control of a building, or part
thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
   ORDINANCE. An official action of the local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and
shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by the city
legislative body and the Fiscal Court which embodies all or part of an
ordinance.
   ORDINARY PUBLIC VIEW. A sight line within normal visual range by a person on
a public street or sidewalk adjacent to real property.
   OVERGROWN GRASS. Any grass, weeds or vegetation in excess of eight (8)
inches in length, except in agricultural zones.
   OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple and any person, group of
persons, company, association, or corporation in whose name tax bills on the
property are submitted. OWNER also means a person, association, corporation,
partnership, or other legal entity having a legal or equitable title in real
property. It shall also mean any person who, alone or jointly or severally with
others:
      (1)   Shall have legal title to any dwelling or dwelling unit, with or
without accompanying actual possession thereof; or
      (2)   Shall have charge, care, or control of any dwelling unit, as owner,
executor, executrix, administrator, trustee, guardian of the estate of the
owner, mortgagee or vendee in possession, assignee of rents, lessee, or other
person, firm, or corporation in control of a building, or their duly authorized
agents. Any such person thus representing the actual owner shall be bound to
comply with the provisions of this chapter, and of rules and regulations
adopted pursuant thereto, to the same extent as if he or she were the owner. It
is his or her responsibility to notify the actual owner of the reported
infractions of these regulations pertaining to the property.
   PARTS CAR. An automobile that is not intended to be operated along streets
and roads, but is used to provide parts for the restoration of automobiles.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, limited liability company,
association, or partnership.
   PLUMBING. The practice, materials, and fixtures used in the installation,
maintenance, extension, and alteration of all piping, fixtures, appliances, and
appurtenances in connection with any of the following: sanitary drainage or
storm draining facilities, the venting system, and the public or private water
supply systems, within or adjacent to any building, structure, or conveyance;
also the practice and materials used in the installation, maintenance,
extension, or alteration of storm water, liquid waste, or sewerage, and water-
supply systems of any premises to their connection with any point of public
disposal or other acceptable terminal.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot, or parcel of land including the buildings or
structures thereon.
   PUBLIC AREA. Unoccupied open space that is not privately owned, including
but not limited to publicly owned property, sidewalks, streets, and rights-of-
way.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Has the same meaning provided for them in KRS 227.550
(12).
   REQUIRED. Required by some provision of this chapter or other law or
regulation adopted by the County.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and non-combustible waste materials, except garbage.
The term shall include but not be limited to abandoned, discarded, or unused
objects placed outside of a structure, such as furniture, stoves,
refrigerators, freezers, washers, dryers, clothes, food, cans, containers,
paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, synthetic
materials, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metal, mineral matter,
glass crockery and dust. The term shall also include the residue from the
burning of wood, coal, coke, synthetic material, or other combustible material.
   STAGNANT WATER. A body of water without wind, waves, fish, or frogs,
including but not limited to stagnant water in natural ponds, ornamental ponds,
old tires, poorly maintained pools, rain barrels, clogged gutters, and other
places where standing water may collect.
   STAIRWAY. One or more flight of stairs and the necessary landings and
platforms connecting them, to form a continuous and uninterrupted passage from
one story to another in a building or structure.
   STRUCTURE. An edifice, cellar, building of any kind, or any piece of work
artificially built up or composed of parts joined together in some definite
manner. The term structure shall be construed as if followed by the words, "or
any part thereof."
   YARD. An open unoccupied space on the same lot with building extending along
the entire length of a street, or rear or interior lot line. This term also
applies to an adjoining unoccupied parcel or lot that is used by a principal
occupied lot as a yard.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-5-16)
§ 92.08 NUISANCES DESCRIBED AND PROHIBITED.
   The following acts, action, inaction, omissions, behavior, or conditions
shall constitute a public nuisance:
   (A)   No person shall act, fail to act, behave, erect, contrive, cause,
continue, maintain in any manner, or permit to exist any public nuisance within
the city. Repeated violation of the terms of the International Property
Maintenance code, as amended, shall constitute a public nuisance.
   (B)   Any act, thing, occupation, condition, use of property, non-use of
property, misuse of property that continues for a length of time so as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure, or endanger the comfort, health,
repose or safety of the public;
      (2)   In any way render the public insecure in life, peaceful
uninterrupted existence, or in the use of their property;
      (3)   Offend the public morals or decency;
      (4)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or tend to
obstruct, or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, navigable
body of water, or other public way, including but not limited to sidewalks.
   (C)   To allow any physical condition, use, or occupancy of any premises or
its appurtenances be an attractive nuisance to children, including, but not
limited to, abandoned wells, shafts, standing pools of water or liquid,
basements, excavations, retaining walls, and unsafe fences, accessible to
children or other persons, on the premises. No person shall abandon or leave
unattended in any place accessible to children any refrigerator, freezer ice
chest, ice box, or similar airtight box or container, which has a locking
device inoperable from within, without first unhinging and removing the door or
lid thereof or detaching the locking device from the door or lid. Nothing in
this section shall be construed to prohibit the normal use of any refrigerator,
ice box, freezer, or similar appliance for the storage of food in any home or
buildings appurtenant thereto.
   (D)   For any premises to have unsanitary, defective, or insufficient
sewerage or plumbing facilities.
   (E)   To keep or maintain any premises designated by a code enforcement
officer as unsafe or unfit for human habitation.
   (F)   For any premises to present an imminent fire hazard, be in imminent
danger of collapse, or to be unsafe or unsecure so as to endanger life, limb,
or property.
   (G)   (1)   For any premises to lack electrical service, plumbing, heating,
and/or other equipment required by this chapter, the Property Maintenance Code,
state statute or any other ordinance of the city.
      (2)   If the utility providing natural gas service to a furnace, water
heater, or other equipment deterrnines that the equipment is defective, the
utility shall cite or "red tag" the defective equipment and notify the Code
Enforcement Officer of such citation. Any equipment so cited by a utility
company as defective will be deemed a public nuisance.
   (H)   For any structure or building to be in a state of dilapidation,
deterioration, or decay, or be a product of faulty construction.
   (I)   For any structure or building to be vacant or abandoned and open or
accessible to vagrants or passersby, or damaged by fire so as to not provide
shelter.
   (J)   To allow on any premises or structure any stagnant water in which
mosquitoes, flies, or other insects may breed or multiply. For stagnant water
that cannot be easily eliminated, a property owner may use mosquito dunks or
other environmentally safe larvacides to kill mosquitoes and other insects and
evidence of the effective use of such products will constitute a defense to any
citation issued under this section.
   (K)   To allow any rubbish to remain on any premises.
   (L)   To allow any premises or structure to pollute any public well or
cistern, stream, lake, canal, or body of water by sewage, creamery, or
industrial wastes or other polluting substances.
   (M)   To allow any premises or structure within the county, to emit or cause
any foul, offensive, noisome, nauseous, noxious, or disagreeable odors,
effluvia or stenches repulsive to the physical senses of ordinary persons, or
that annoy, cause discomfort, or injure the health of any appreciable number of
persons within the county.
   (N)   Harboring or keeping any canine or hybrid canine outside in a
residential neighborhood which by loud and frequent or habitual barking,
howling, or yelping, shall cause serious annoyance or disturbance to adjacent
residents in the neighborhood.
   (O)   The keeping of cattle, horses, chickens and other bam type animals
shall be prohibited in any non-agricultural zoned area with the city.
   (P)   Emission of noxious odors or smoke into the surrounding atmosphere of
dust, smoke, or other matter which renders ordinary use or physical occupation
of other property in the vicinity uncomfortable or impossible.
   (Q)   Storage of explosives or combustible material. The storage of
combustible or explosive material which creates a safety hazard to other
property or persons in the vicinity; excepted therefrom is any oil or gas
approved for residential use and stored in an approved container.
   (R)   Any tree, stack of wood or trees, or other object standing in such a
condition that it will, if the condition is allowed to continue, endanger the
life, limb, or property of, or cause hurt, damage, or injury to persons or
property upon the public streets or public ways adjacent thereto, by the
falling thereof or of parts thereof.
   (S)   The operation of any ATV and/or dirt bikes within the city on any day,
before 8:00 a.m. or after 10:00 p.m., prevailing time without the muffler
system provided by the manufacturer of the ATV and/or dirt bikes as provided by
the manufacturer, without any modification thereof other than like kind parts
replacement, and which prevents the emission of sound from the ATV and/or dirt
bikes in excess of the levels identified in 40 CFR 205.166 for motorcycles; or
at any speed in excess of the minimum speed required to maintain the forward
motion of the ATV and/or dirt bikes while it is within 150 feet of any dwelling
on a lot or parcel of real estate other than that upon which the ATV and/or
dirt bikes are being operated.
   (T)   Any outdoor fire except, for that of candles, torches, grills, and
approved properly positioned and maintained fire pits, with a fuel load of
paper, firewood, charcoal, propane or natural gas and no more than twenty-four
(24) square feet in area. Open burning of trees and all forms of vegetation for
the purpose of land clearing is prohibited. The burning of trash is also
prohibited. Burn permits from the Union Fire Department are not required for
the approved type of fires defined in this chapter.
   (U)   To allow any motor vehicle to be parked on an unpaved (concrete or
blacktop) surface in excess of twenty-four (24) hours.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-5-16)
§ 92.09 SIGNS.
   (A)   (1)   With the exception of government signs as described in Section
3401 of the Boone County Zoning Regulations, no signs shall be placed upon
property owned by the city without first obtaining a permit from the city to
display any sign.
      (2)   In order to ensure safety and to allow for an unobstructed view for
motorists and bicyclists no sign shall be placed within 15 feet of the pavement
of any road and/or street located in the city limits of Union.
   (B)   Commercial signs. Any commercial sign that isn't in a condition of
good repair, and in a clean, neat and safe and functional condition in
compliance with all applicable laws, including, without limitation, all
building and property maintenance codes.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-5-16)
§ 92.10 BUILDINGS.
   It shall be a public nuisance and a violation of this chapter, to keep,
maintain, or own a dangerous building within the city. A dangerous building is
defined as any of the following:
      (1)   (a)   A building whose interior or exterior walls or other vertical
structural members list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line
passing through the center of gravity falls outside the middle third of its
base;
         (b)   A building, exclusive of the foundation, that shows 33% or more
damage or deterioration to its supporting members, or 50% or more damage or
deterioration to its non-supporting members, or to the enclosing or outside
walls or coverings;
         (c)   A building having improperly distributed loads on the floors or
roofs or in which the same are overloaded, or which have insufficient strength
to be reasonably safe to occupants or the public;
         (d)   A building damaged by fire, wind, or other causes so as to cause
the building to become dangerous to life, limb, or property of the occupants or
to the public;
         (e)   A building that has become or is so dilapidated, decayed,
unsafe, unsanitary, or which so utterly fails to provide the amenities
essential to decent living that it is unfit for human habitation, or is likely
to cause sickness or disease or injury to health, safety, or general welfare of
those living therein;
         (f)   A building having light, air, and sanitation facilities that are
inadequate to protect the health, safety, or general welfare of human beings
who live or may live therein;
         (g)   A building having inadequate facilities for egress in case of
fire or panic or having insufficient stairways, elevators, fire escapes, or
other means of travel;
         (h)   A building that has parts or elements that are attached or not
attached in such a way that they may fall and cause injury to persons or
property; or
         (i)   A building for human habitation that is missing or has
nonfunctioning smoke detectors or similar detection devices in violation of the
Fire Code.
      (2)   Every person owning or having control of a building shall not allow
unsecure openings where a door, window or other architectural feature should be
located.
         (a)   The city shall be authorized to abate the nuisance of an
unsecured opening, and may effectuate securing the opening pursuant to the
applicable code upon recommendation of a Code Enforcement Official.
         (b)   The nuisance of opening where a door, window or other
architectural feature should be located may be securely boarded by using a
minimum of 3/8 inch plywood or other similar material in a manner that will
secure the building from intrusion.
         (c)   Any board placed on a building shall be painted a color that is
consistent with the color of the structure or be painted black, and shall be
cut to fit the opening.
      (3)   Every person violating the provisions of this section shall be
subject to the procedures set forth in this chapter.
      (4)   Keeping, maintaining, or owning a dangerous building is a public
nuisance and shall constitute a violation of this chapter, subject to the
remedies set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-5-16)
§ 92.11 GRAFFITI.
   Graffiti is prohibited and deemed to be a public nuisance. It shall be
unlawful to spray, draw, etch, carve or otherwise create graffiti on any
building or structure in the city. If a private property owner fails to abate a
graffiti nuisance violation after notice is given by the Code Enforcement
Officer, the city may abate the graffiti and place a lien for the cost of
abatement against the real property of the owner of said premises, building, or
structure.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-5-16)
§ 92.12 DISTURBING AND UNNECESSARY NOISES.
   The following acts are declared to be loud, disturbing and unnecessary
noises in violation of this chapter, but said enumerations shall not be deemed
to be exclusive, namely:
   (A)   Horns, signaling devices and the like. The sounding of any horn on any
automobile, motorcycle, or other motor vehicle on any street or public place of
the city, except as a danger warning signal; the creation by means of any such
signaling device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of
any such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time.
   (B)   Radios, phonographs, and the like. The using, operating, or permitting
to be played, used or operated any radio, stereo, television, musical
instrument, phonograph, or other machine or device for the producing or
reproducing of sound in such manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort
of the neighboring inhabitants or at any time with louder volume than is
necessary for convenient hearing for the person or persons who are in the room,
vehicle, or chamber in which such machine or device is operated and who are
voluntary listeners thereto. The operation of any such set, instrument,
phonograph, machine or device in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a
distance of fifty (50) feet from the location thereof shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of this section.
   (C)   Loud speakers, amplifiers for advertising. The using, operating or
permitting to be played, used or operated or any radio receiving set, musical
instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other machine or device
for the producing or reproducing of sound which is upon the public streets for
the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention of the public
to any building or structure, unless the permit for such amplification has been
obtained from the Mayor or City Clerk.
   (D)   Yelling, shouting, and the like. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling
or singing at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort,
or repose of any persons in the vicinity.
   (E)   Animals, birds, and the like. The keeping of any animal or bird which
by causing frequent or long continued noise shall disturb the comfort or repose
of any persons in the vicinity.
   (F)   Operation of equipment. The operating of any equipment or the
performing of any outside construction or repair work on buildings, structures,
roads, or projects within the city between the hours of 11:00 P.M. and 7:00
A.M. unless a permit for such construction or repair work between such hours
has been obtained from the Mayor or City Clerk.
   (G)   Exhausts. The discharging into the open air of the exhaust of internal
combustion engine, motorboat, or motor vehicle except through a muffler or
other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom.
Exhaust noise which is plainly audible at a distance of one hundred (100) feet
from the location thereof shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this
section.
   (H)   Repairing, rebuilding, or testing of motor vehicles. The repairing,
rebuilding, or testing of any motor vehicle between the hours of 10:00 P.M. and
7:00 A.M. within any residential area in such a manner as to disturb the peace,
quiet and comfort of the residents in the area.
   (I)   Construction and repair on real estate/structures. The construction,
repair or any other work on any real estate and/or structures located within
the city limits between the hours of 10:00 P.M. and 7:00 A.M. within any
residential area in such a manner as to disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort
of the residents of the area.
   (J)   Defect in vehicle or load. The use of any automobile, motorcycle, or
vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in any such manner as grinding,
rattling, or other noise.
   (K)   Schools, courts, churches, hospitals. The creating of any excessive
noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church or
court while the same are in use, or adjacent to any hospital, which
unreasonably interferes with the workings of such institution, or which
disturbs or unduly annoys patients in the hospital, provided conspicuous signs
are displayed on such streets indicating that same is a school, hospital,
court, or church street.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-5-16)
§ 92.13 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following activities and uses shall be exempt from the noise regulations
set forth in this chapter:
   (A)   Noises of safety signals and warning devices;
   (B)   Noises resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call or acting in times of emergency.
   (C)   Noises resulting from emergency work, to be construed as work
necessary to restore property to a safe condition following a public calamity,
or work required to protect persons or property from imminent exposure to
danger;
   (D)   Noises resulting from the discharge of firearms during daylight hours;
and
   (E)   Noises resulting from garbage/trash removal provided under contract
with the city, as long as the service provided is operating under the time
periods provided by separate contract.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-5-16)
§ 92.14 VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful to allow junked or wrecked vehicles, machines, scrap,
salvage materials, mobile or manufactured homes to exist on real property in
the city not within a duly licensed salvage yard pursuant to KRS 177.910 to KRS
177.950. Furthermore:
   (A)   No inoperative or unlicensed motor vehicle shall be parked, kept or
stored on any occupied or unoccupied premises and no vehicle shall at any time
be in a state of major disassembly, disrepair, or in the process of being
stripped or dismantled. Painting of vehicles is prohibited unless conducted
inside an approved spray booth. Excepted therefrom is any small repair and spot
painting of an area of the vehicle not in excess of sixteen (16) square feet.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D), it shall be unlawful for the
owner, occupant, or person having control or management of any land within the
city to permit a public nuisance, health hazard, or source of filth to develop
thereon through the accumulation of:
      (1)   One or more junked or wrecked automobiles, vehicles, machines or
other similar scrap or salvage materials, excluding non-operative farm
equipment; or
      (2)   One or more mobile or manufactured homes, as defined in KRS
227.550, that are junked, wrecked, or non-operative and are not inhabited.
   (C)   The provisions of section (1) shall not apply to:
      (1)   Junked, wrecked, or non-operative automobiles, vehicles, machines
or other similar scrap or salvage materials located on the business premises of
a licensed automotive recycling dealer as defined under the provisions of KRS
190.010(8);
      (2)   Junked, wrecked or non-operative motor vehicles, including parts
cars, stored on private real property by automobile collectors, whether as a
hobby or a profession, if these motor vehicles and parts cars are stored out of
ordinary public view by means of suitable fencing, trees, shrubbery or other
means;
      (3)   Any motor vehicle as defined in KRS 281.010 that is owned,
controlled, operated, managed or leased by a motor carrier.
      (4)   A vehicle of any type is permitted to undergo major overhaul,
including body work, provided that such work is performed inside a structure or
similarly enclosed area designed and approved for such purposes.
   (D)   The city may take action to abate the nuisances referenced in this
section by giving notice to the property owner of the nuisance pursuant to the
procedures set forth in the code. The city itself may abate or remove a
nuisance referenced under this section if the property owner fails to do so
after notice is given regarding the nuisance. The city shall have a lien
against the property for the reasonable value of labor and material used in
remedying the nuisance including but not limited to the cost of towing,
holding, storage and disposal. An affidavit of a Code Enforcement Officer shall
constitute prima facie evidence of the amount of the lien and the regularity of
the proceedings pursuant to this section and it shall be recorded in the office
of the County Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of
its recording and shall bear interest thereafter until paid. The lien created
shall take precedence over all other subsequent liens, except state, county,
school board, and the city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial proceeding.
   (5)   In addition to the remedies prescribed above or any other remedy
authorized by law, the owner of a property upon which a lien has been attached
pursuant to this section shall be personally liable for the amount of the lien
and the city may bring a civil action against the owner and shall have the same
remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt owned.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-5-16)
§ 92.15 RUBBISH.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant, person or corporation
controlling or managing land in the city to permit a nuisance thereon through
the accumulation of rubbish or excessive growth of weeds, grass and similar
items. Any officer designated by the city legislative body may give five (5)
days written notice to remedy such situation and said notice shall be hand-
delivered and/or mailed by regular mail to the last known address of the owner
of said property to comply, the City Clerk is authorized to send employees of
the city upon the property to remedy the situation.
   (B)   The city shall have a lien against said property for the reasonable
value of labor and materials used in remedying such situation, such labor shall
be calculated at an hourly rate of $75 per hour. The affidavit of the City
Clerk shall constitute prima facie evidence of the amount of the lien and the
regularity of the proceedings pursuant to said statute and shall be recorded in
the office of the County Clerk in the county where such city is located. Said
lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall
bear interest at the rate of 6% per annum.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-5-16)
§ 92.16 LIENS.
   The city shall possess a lien on real property owned by the person found by
a final order of the hearing board, or by final judgment of a court, to have
committed a violation of this chapter in the amount of all fines assessed for
the violation, for all charges, fees, and abatement costs incurred by the city
in connection with the enforcement of the ordinance, and bear interest until
paid. The lien shall be superior to and have priority over all other liens on
the property, except state, county, school board, and city taxes. A person
found to have committed a violation of this chapter shall be personally liable
for the amount of all fines assessed for the violation and for all charges and
fees incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-5-16)
§ 92.99 PENALTIES.
   The following penalties shall apply to violations of this chapter:
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter shall be subject to a civil fine of not less than $50 per day per
violation but not more than $500 per day per violation, or the cost to the city
to abate the public nuisance, or both. Each day that a violation of this
chapter continues after due notice has been served in accordance with the terms
of this chapter may be deemed a separate offense to a maximum of $ 10,000 per
citation.
   (B)   As an additional alternative remedy to the above penalty, any violator
who violates any provision of this chapter and has been previously issued two
or more citations for violation of this nuisance chapter relating to the same
property within a 12-month period may be assessed additional civil penalties of
$500 per day per violation to a maximum of $20,000 per citation.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-5-16)
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
93.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
93.03   Consumer fireworks; restrictions on sale
   
93.04   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
93.05   Exempted sales and uses
   
93.06   Destruction of fireworks
Fire Prevention
   
93.20   Blasting permit
   
93.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, FIREWORKS means any composition or
device for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by
combustion, deflagration, or detonation, and which meets the definition of
“consumer fireworks” as defined in division (B) below or “display fireworks” as
defined in division (D) below and as set forth in the U.S. Department of
Transportation's (DOT) hazardous materials regulations. FIREWORKS does not
include:
      (1)   Exception number 1: Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to said regulations, are not
considered to be fireworks and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times.
      (2)   Exception number 2: Model rockets and model rocket motors designed,
sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models are not
considered to be fireworks.
      (3)   Exception number 3: Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a
mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and saltpeter are not considered as being designed
for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, CONSUMER FIREWORKS means fireworks
that are suitable for use by the public, designed primarily to produce visible
effects by combustion, and comply with the construction, chemical composition,
and labeling regulations of the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission. The
types, sizes, and amount of pyrotechnic contents of these devices are limited
as enumerated in this division. Some small devices designed to produce audible
effects are included, such as whistling devices, ground devices containing
fifty (50) milligrams or less of explosive composition, and aerial devices
containing one hundred thirty (130) milligrams or less of explosive
composition. CONSUMER FIREWORKS are further defined by the Consumer Product
Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. Pts. 1500 and 1507, are classified as
Division 1.4G explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation, and include
the following:
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. These devices consist or
a metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition.
Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks in produced.
Sparklers may contain up to one hundred (100) grams of pyrotechnic composition
per item. Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not
exceed five (5) grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which
contain no magnesium and which contain less than one hundred (100) grams of
composition per item are not included in this category, in accordance with DOT
regulations;
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
seventy-five (75) grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of
colored sparks, and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This
device may be provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike
fountain), a wood or plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or
a wood or cardboard handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When
more than one (1) tube is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic
composition may not exceed two hundred (200) grams, or five hundred (500) grams
if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at
least one-half (½) inch;
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to
fifty (50) grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of
a cylindrical fountain. When more than one (1) tube is mounted on a common
base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed two hundred (200) grams, or
five hundred (500) grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base
by a distance of at least one-half (½) inch;
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to one
hundred (100) grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is
produced. May be spike, base, or hand-held. When more than one (1) tube is
mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed two
hundred (200) grams, or five hundred (500) grams if the tubes are separated
from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-half (½) inch;
         (e)   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or
string. A wheel may have one (1) or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than sixty (60) grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel may contain
more than two hundred (200) grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition,
the wheel revolves, producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a
whistling effect;
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than twenty
(20) grams of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but
intended to be placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color
is produced by the rapidly spinning device;
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than one hundred (100) grams of pyrotechnic
composition that produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one (1)
end of the tube is ignited to make the device function; and
         (h)   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than one hundred (100) grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon
ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect;
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than twenty (20) grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a
wooden stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A
burst of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight.
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability.
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to twenty (20)
grams of pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached, which, upon
ignition, lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible
effect is produced at the height of flight.
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to
twenty (20) grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten (10)
“stars” (pellets of pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright
color) are individually expelled at several second intervals.
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to sixty (60) grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, “stars,” components producing reports containing
up to one hundred thirty (130) milligrams of explosive composition per report,
or other devices are propelled into the air. The term MINE refers to a device
with no internal components containing a bursting charge, and the term SHELL
refers to a device that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in
the air. A mine or shell device may contain more than one (1) tube provided the
tubes fire in sequence upon ignition of one (1) external fuse. The term CAKE
refers to a dense-packed collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical
composition including lift charges of any multiple lube devices may not exceed
two hundred (200) grams. The maximum quantity of lift charge in any one (1)
tube of a mine or shell device shall not exceed twenty (20) grams, and the
maximum quantity of break or bursting charge in any component shall not exceed
twenty-five percent (25%) of the total weight of chemical composition in the
component. The tube remains on the ground; and
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE), or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of sixty
(60) grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, burst charge, and
visible or audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell
shall not exceed one and three-fourths (1¾) inches. In addition, the maximum
quantity of lift charge in any shell shall not exceed twenty (20) grams, and
the maximum quantity of break or bursting charge in any shell shall not exceed
twenty-five percent (25%) of the total weight of chemical composition in the
shell. The total chemical composition of all the shells in a kit, including
lift charge, shall not exceed four hundred (400) grams. The user lowers a shell
into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fuse extending out of
the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then reloaded with another
shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be capable of firing twice
the number of shells in the kit without failure of the tube. Each package of
multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning label requirements of
the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than fifty (50) milligrams of pyrotechnic composition.
Those used in aerial devices may contain not more than one hundred thirty (130)
milligrams of explosive composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a
flash of light is produced; and
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed fifty (50)
milligrams.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed in this division are classified as NOVELTIES and TRICK
NOISEMAKERS and are not classified as consumer fireworks by the U.S. Department
of Transportation, and their transportation, storage, retail sale, possession,
sale, and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times.
      (1)   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as the
pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2)   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (3)   Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed one hundred (100) grams of composition per item.
Devices containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five (5)
grams of composition per item.
      (4)   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include:
         (a)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than sixteen (16) milligrams of explosive composition that is friction
sensitive. A string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it,
expelling paper streamers and producing a small report.
         (b)   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
         (c)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes producing a small report.
         (d)   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
         (e)   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced.
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding fifty (50) milligrams may also be used to produce a
small report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, DISPLAY FIREWORKS means pyrotechnic
devices or large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or audible
effects by combustion, deflagration or detonation. This term includes, but is
not limited to, firecrackers containing more than two (2) grains (130
milligrams) of explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than forty
(40) grams of pyrotechnic composition, and other display pieces which exceed
the limits for classification as “consumer fireworks.” Display fireworks are
defined by the Consumer Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. Pts. 1500
and 1507, and are classified as Class B explosives by the U.S. Department of
Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   Legality of items.
      (1)   Items described in division (B) above are legal for retail sale
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
      (2)   Items described in division (D) above are not legal for retail sale
but are legal under permits granted pursuant to §
93.02 for the purposes specified in this chapter for public displays and may be
sold at wholesale as provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) above are legal for retail sale
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
(KRS 227.708)
§ 93.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, co-partnership, or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, keep with intent to sell, possess, use, or explode,
any display fireworks, except for the following:
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department or other authorized city
official may grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the
city, fair associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of
individuals.
      (2)   Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator to
be approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be
of such character, and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or endanger
any person.
      (3)   COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks display. The
competent display operator shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms
and Explosives (ATF) License and have participated as an assistant in firing at
least five (5) public displays. A COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR is also an
employee possessor. A permit under division (A)(1) of this section shall be
issued only to a competent display operator holding an ATF license.
      (4)   At least one (1) competent display operator shall be on site during
display set-up and firing. This competent display operator shall maintain a
copy of the permit application, as signed by the local authority having
jurisdiction as identified in this section, on site and at all times the
display is in place, and shall be presented on demand of the State Fire Marshal
or the Chief of the Fire Department. All public displays that require issuance
of a permit shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of National
Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 1123 Code for Fireworks Display (adopted
edition).
      (5)   Permits shall be filed with the State Fire Marshal at least fifteen
(15) days in advance of the date of the display. After the privilege is
granted, sales, possession, use and distribution of fireworks for the display
shall be lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted under this division
shall be transferable. For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC DISPLAY OF
FIREWORKS shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or pyrotechnic materials
before a proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors.
      (6)   Any person remaining within the display area shall be identified as
licensed by the ATF, or an employee thereof, or be an assistant in training to
become a competent display operator. All persons remaining within the display
area shall be at least eighteen (18) years of age.
      (7)   The Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction with recommendation from the State Fire Marshal shall promulgate
administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A to administer the
provisions of this division. The regulations shall address the process by which
permits are issued and any other procedures that art reasonably necessary to
effectuate this division.
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms
and Explosives if the sale is to the person holding a display permit as
outlined in division (A)(1) of this section. The permit holder shall present
the permit along with other verifiable identification at the time of sale.
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.
   (D)   The sale and use in emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation, and highway use.
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads.
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports.
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations.
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-partnership,
non-profit, or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling
at retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing or using consumer fireworks
as defined in §
93.01(B) and as permitted pursuant to KRS 227.715.
(KRS 227.710) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 CONSUMER FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS ON SALE.
   Except as provided in §
93.02, the consumer fireworks described in §
93.01(B) may be offered for sale, sold at retail, or kept with the intent to
sell, only if the following requirements are met:
   (A)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall register
annually with the State Fire Marshal's office in accordance with KRS 227.715,
and display its registration certificate in a conspicuous location at the site;
   (B)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall comply with
all applicable provisions of the International Building Code, with Kentucky
Amendments (adopted edition), and NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection
Association) Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, Storage, and Retail
Sales of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles (adopted edition); and
   (C)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or sell any consumer
fireworks listed in §
93.01(B) to any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
(KRS 227.715(6)-(8)) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
93.02 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00). However, the
appropriate city official or the State Fire Marshal may require a larger amount
if in their judgment the situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of
all damages which may be caused thereby either to a person or to property by
reason of the permitted display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his
agents, employees or subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry, or
gold star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate, toy
snakes which contain no mercury, smoke novelties and party novelties, which
contain less than twenty-five hundredths (25/100) of a grain of explosive
mixture, or shells or cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms, or blank
cartridges for a show or theater, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in
athletics or sports, or for use by military organizations, or the sale of any
kind of fireworks provided the same are to be shipped by the seller directly
out of the state.
(KRS 227.730)
§ 93.06 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the State Fire Marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter. After a period of sixty (60)
days, the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of sixty (60) days, the seized fireworks may be offered
for sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor, or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or “Display”
designation shall require the notification of the United States Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. The State Fire Marshal shall provide
the owner or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of any
fireworks seized within five (5) business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the State Fire
Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the State Fire Marshal's intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire Marshal's
intent. The State Fire Marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the State Fire Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal's intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for
three (3) consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks
within ten (10) days of the date of the last publication, the State Fire
Marshal may proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the
fireworks within ten (10) days of the date of the last publication, a hearing
as set out in division (C)(1) of this section shall be held.
   (D)   Nothing in KRS 227.700 to 227.750 shall restrict a local government
from enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks within their
jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the City Commission or
other authorized city official. The City Commission or other authorized city
official, before granting such permit may require the applicant to provide a
bond to indemnify the city and all other persons against injury or damages
which might result from the proposed blasting.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material
of a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any
other portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall
be provided for such hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.02 or
93.03, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be fined not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00),
or imprisoned for not more than thirty (30) days, or both.
(KRS 227.990(4))
   (B)   Any person who violates any other provision of this chapter shall be
fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
94.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
94.03   Hauling loose material
   
94.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
94.05   Litter on private property
   
94.06   Litter on city streets or public ways
   
94.07   Dirt or debris
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley, or other
public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or foreign matter of any
kind.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt, or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place shall haul it, or cause it to be hauled in
vehicles provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any of the contents from falling or being thrown, blown, or deposited
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place. Any materials which
fall from, or which are thrown, blown, or deposited from any vehicle upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place, shall be removed immediately by
the person in charge of the vehicle.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks, or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city whether owned by that person or not.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 LITTER ON CITY STREETS OR PUBLIC WAYS.
   Pursuant to KRS 224.905-244.970, no person, firm or corporation shall litter
or cause to be placed on any city street or public way of the city any litter,
dirt, trash, rubbish, refuse, mud, soil, or similar debris or allow or permit
the above to remain on any city street or public way of the city for more than
twelve (12) hours without removing it and cleaning and clearing the street or
public way so that it is restored to its original condition prior to the
littering.
(Ord. 98-007, passed 10-12-98) Penalty, see §
94.99(B)
§ 94.07 DIRT OR DEBRIS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or occupants of lots abutting on the
sidewalks to keep the sidewalks in front of the property or lots clean and free
from rubbish and dirt, whether they are washed by water flooding the sidewalks
or from any other source. Should filth accumulate on the sidewalks of the city
and the owner or occupant of the lot abutting the sidewalk at such place or
places fail to remove the filth, it shall be the duty of the city to notify the
owner in writing, setting forth the objectionable condition of the sidewalk. If
the owner or occupants fail to remove the dirt or filth within three (3) days
from the date of notice, he or they shall be fined not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) or more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. 98-007, passed 10-12-98)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). Each day the violation is committed or permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation convicted of violating §
94.06 shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each day that the violation continues shall be
a separate offense.
(Ord. 98-007, passed 10-12-98)
CHAPTER 95: RESERVED
CHAPTER 95A: CEMETERIES
Section
   
95A.01   Sexton - creation of office
   
95A.02   Sexton - charge of cemeteries; reports
   
95A.03   Sexton - duties and remuneration
   
95A.04   Sexton - registrar of burials; all deeds are retained at the city
building
   
95A.05   Purchase of burial rights
   
95A.06   Perpetual care and maintenance
   
95A.07   Rights of city and certificate/deed holders
   
95A.08   Records of conveyances
   
95A.09   Abandonment of rights
   
95A.10   Opening graves, interment and disinterment
   
95A.11   Maintaining hedges, copings, monuments, etc.
   
95A.12   Specifications for monuments, markers, etc.
   
95A.13   Days when burials are prohibited
   
95A.14   Double depth burials prohibited
   
95A.15   East-west burials
   
95A.16   Operation of vehicles and speed limit
   
95A.17   Curfew and defacing property
   
95A.18   Flowers
   
95A.19   Animals prohibited
§ 95A.01 SEXTON - CREATION OF OFFICE.
   There is hereby created the office of City Sexton/Cemetery Manager, which
office shall be filled by appointment of the City Commission. The City Sexton
shall report directly to the Public Works Director.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 9-18-23)
§ 95A.02 SEXTON - CHARGE OF CEMETERIES; REPORTS.
   The City Sexton, under the direction of the Public Works Director, shall
have entire care, control, management, and superintendence of city cemeteries,
and shall perform such other duties in relation to the cemeteries as are now,
or may be hereafter, by this code or other ordinance, municipal order, or
resolution of the City Commission, or by the laws of the State of Kentucky.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 9-18-23)
§ 95A.03 SEXTON - DUTIES AND REMUNERATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any portion of this
code or any rule or regulation as set forth in this code or hereafter enacted
and published by the city respecting the city cemetery. The City Sexton shall
be empowered to enforce all sections of this code, other city ordinances,
policies, procedures, rules, orders and regulations established for operation
of the city cemetery, including rules and regulations enacted to keep the
cemetery, and the enclosure around said cemetery, in good maintenance and
proper repair and to prevent the destruction or defacing of cemetery grounds.
The Sexton shall have the assistance of the City Attorney's office in
enforcing, apprehending, and prosecuting violators of this code, and other city
ordinances, rules and regulations.
   (B)   The Sexton shall manage the opening and closing of all interments and
disinterments. He or she shall have charge of a plat of the cemetery and shall
at the request of any person wishing to purchase, point out any of the lots or
parts of lots, unoccupied for sale; upon application and payment of the price
thereof into the City Treasurer, the City Treasurer shall issue a deed once
payment is received.
   (C)   The Public Works Director is responsible for the maintenance of the
cemetery grounds to include turf maintenance (mowing, re-seeding, etc.),
perimeter maintenance (fence line), cemetery pavement, and snow removal.
   (D)   The Sexton shall be paid the sum of four hundred dollars ($400.00)
monthly, with an added bonus of fifty dollars ($50.00) per plot sale, such
amount to be adjusted periodically at the request of the Mayor or City
Commissioners. Bonus per plot sale is not applicable to plot purchases by the
Sexton and/or his or her immediate family members.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 9-18-23)
§ 95A.04 SEXTON - REGISTRAR OF BURIALS; ALL DEEDS ARE RETAINED AT THE CITY
BUILDING.
   The City Sexton shall be the registrar of burials. Before burying or
disinterring any body, the persons having charge of said body shall be required
to furnish a copy of the death certificate, or statement of said death, which
shall be recorded in a record kept for that purpose by the city. Such
statement, as well as the record, shall include, if known, the name of the
person deceased, when and where born, parentage, the date of death, also the
date of burial, the name of the cemetery, the number of the lot and block where
said person is buried, and if disinterred and transferred beyond the corporate
limits of the city, the place of destination.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 9-18-23)
§ 95A.05 PURCHASE OF BURIAL RIGHTS.
   (A)   The city shall sell only the right to be buried in the city cemetery.
The purchase of burial rights in any lot or parcel shall be evidenced by a
certificate of burial rights and shall be sold for the prices and charges in
force by the city at that time.
   (B)   Included in the purchase price, perpetual care, and maintenance of
cemetery lots shall be assumed by the city.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 9-18-23)
§ 95A.06 PERPETUAL CARE AND MAINTENANCE.
   The term PERPETUAL CARE AND MAINTENANCE as used in this chapter shall mean
the filling of sunken graves, the placing of top soil upon graves, the seeding
or sodding of the grave site, cutting of the grass except in times of drought,
but does not include any other service. Charges shall be made for all other
services and improvements according to fee schedules established by the City
Commission. If no fee has been established for specific special services as
requested, the Sexton shall assess a reasonable sum based upon the cost to the
city.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 9-18-23)
§ 95A.07 RIGHTS OF CITY AND CERTIFICATE/DEED HOLDERS.
   (A)   In administering the cemetery, the city shall be entitled to all
rights and prerogatives granted to it in law or equity, including any rights
set forth in the Kentucky Revised Statutes or any subsequent amendment thereof.
The omission or failure to assert any right or prerogative by the city in any
particular shall not constitute a waiver of the right.
   (B)   Upon payment of the purchase price for any lot or burial space, the
certificate issued by the City Sexton in the name of the purchaser shall vest
the burial rights in the purchaser. The nature and extent of rights acquired by
purchase of a certificate of burial rights (and heretofore deed) shall be the
right to use the burial space or lot for burial purposes only and subject to
all rules, regulations, limitations and conditions imposed by this code, other
city ordinances, Kentucky state law, and by the Sexton as are necessary for
efficient care of the cemetery.
   (C)   The city reserves the right of easement over and across any lot or
burial space in the cemetery for repair of turf, installation or maintenance of
water pipes or water lines for the improvement of the cemetery, and for the
opening and closing of adjacent graves. The Sexton will be responsible to see
that all the work is completed and the surface returned to proper condition
after such installation or maintenance work.
   (D)   All lots and parts of lots in the cemetery shall be exempt from
execution and from taxation.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 9-18-23)
§ 95A.08 RECORDS OF CONVEYANCES.
   (A)   A plat of all conveyances executed under the provisions of this
chapter, stating the property conveyed, the date of such conveyance, the name
of the person to whom conveyed, and the amount received for the same shall be
retained at the city building.
   (B)   Transfer of title of burial rights by the city shall hereafter be by
certificate and shall comply with applicable Kentucky law. When a previously
issued deed or certificate of burial rights is purchased by, or transferred to
a third party, or reverts to the city, the original shall be presented to the
City Sexton, and before a new certificate of burial rights is issued covering
said plot, the original deed or certificate shall be canceled and the records
so changed. Transfer from a grantee on a deed or on a certificate of burial
rights shall be recognized only upon presentation and authentication by the
City Sexton. A deed sold back to the city will be at cost of original purchase
price. If original price is unknown, the city will purchase the deed at the
price of one hundred dollars ($100.00) or post the deed for sale on the city
website with price to be negotiated between private parties. The city shall
keep record of all burial spaces or lots to which deeds or burial rights have
been issued and shall show any transfer from the original purchaser to any
subsequent owner, and also shall index any probate or other judicial proceeding
which affects the ownership of a lot or burial space. If a deed or certificate
cannot be located by an individual or a family for presentation to the Sexton,
the Sexton may, with the authorization of the city's Mayor or City Clerk/
Treasurer, make such arrangements for transfer and/or burial as are equitable
and appropriate considering all the circumstances.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 9-18-23)
§ 95A.09 ABANDONMENT OF RIGHTS.
   (A)   The city shall have the discretion to reclaim, redeem, or recover any
abandoned, unused, or unkempt cemetery lots or parcels conveyed by deed or
certificate, with or without restrictions by the following the procedures set
forth in law.
   (B)   In the event any owner of any lot or burial space or heir of such
person subsequent to the completion of the abandonment proceedings as set forth
hereafter, shall present to the Sexton a deed, certificate or proof of probate
or other legal conveyance of the said lot or space, the City Sexton, upon
payment in full of all fees and costs accessible against property, may issue a
certificate of burial rights for an equivalent lot or burial space.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 9-18-23)
§ 95A.10 OPENING GRAVES, INTERMENT AND DISINTERMENT.
   (A)   Upon proper application of the owner of a lot, payment of the required
fee, and eight (8) working hours notice, the Sexton shall cause the grave to be
opened. The Sexton shall superintend every interment and shall cause the grave
to be filled up and neatly trimmed immediately after depositing the coffin and
shall fill up and trim all graves that have settled or may hereafter settle.
The city is not responsible for any error in opening graves when orders are
given other than in writing.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be buried in the cemetery
without the casket being placed in a permanent-type vault, which vault type
must be approved by the Sexton.
   (C)   Cemetery grounds are sacredly devoted to the interment or repose of
the dead. In those circumstances where it is necessary to disinter or remove
remains from the cemetery all applicable state laws must be complied with. The
Sexton will schedule and direct the exhumation after application fees have been
paid, and all required forms are received.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 9-18-23)
§ 95A.11 MAINTAINING HEDGES, COPINGS, MONUMENTS, ETC.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any fence, corner
post, coping, hedge, or boundary of any kind upon any lot, street, alley or
walk in said cemetery, or grade the ground or land thereof. The Sexton shall,
whenever required, furnish the true lines of said lots according to official
survey, and shall prevent and prohibit any markings of the same save and except
by official landmarks, and shall prevent and prohibit any grading thereof that
might destroy or interfere with the general slope of the land. It shall be
unlawful for any person to plant any shrubs, trees, lawns, etc., or place any
monuments or markers upon any lot in said cemetery without a written permit
from the City Sexton, and unless the same is done under the direction and
supervision of the City Sexton.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 9-18-23)
§ 95A.12 SPECIFICATIONS FOR MONUMENTS, MARKERS, ETC.
   The placing of monuments and markers is done so at a purchaser's own risk,
shall be accomplished under the direction of the City Sexton, and shall comply
with all specifications herein enumerated. The city assumes no obligation or
responsibility to repair or replace markers or monuments damaged by an owner or
third parties, or damaged as a result of a failure to comply with the
directions of the City Sexton, or failure to comply with the following
specifications:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or place any monument on
any lot in the city cemetery, unless the same shall be placed on a good
concrete foundation eight (8) inches deep or deeper, if deemed necessary by the
Sexton, with a cement apron (lawnmower strip) not less than eight (8) inches
wide around said monument. For purposes of this chapter, a MONUMENT is defined
to be: any structure, tree, plant, urn, cenotaph, mausoleum or crypt, or any
structure designed to perpetuate the memory of the dead; all other structures
erected in the cemetety lots are hereby designated as “markers.”
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place any monument on any lot
in the said cemetery made of any material other than metal, stone, or cement.
   (C)   All markers placed in the cemetery shall be flush with the lawn
securely set in the cement foundation at least four (4) inches deep with a
cement lawnmower strip not less than eight (8) inches wide around the said
marker, provided that where markers have been placed in lots in the lot part of
the cemetery which are not flush with the lawn as provided herein, then other
markers of like design and character shall be installed in the same lot in
order to maintain a uniformity of markers in the said lot.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place more than one (1) marker
or monument on any one grave, except that a military marker may be placed in
front of the face of a double marker, flush with the ground and directly over
the grave, to memorialize veteran status.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place more than two (2) flower
vases on the grass skirt of any one monument or marker and at least four (4)
inches of cement of proper depth must extend beyond such vase. When two (2)
vases are put in the grass skirt of any grave marker or monument they must be
placed on each side of or north and south of said marker or monument. Open
holes in grass skirt or any part of the grave shall not be allowed.
   (F)   The Public Works Director is authorized to arrange and to maintain
trees, shrubs and other landscaping to enhance the beauty of the cemetery.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 9-18-23)
§ 95A.13 DAYS WHEN BURIALS ARE PROHIBITED.
   Burial shall not occur on Christmas, New Year's Day, Memorial Day,
Thanksgiving, Fourth of July, and Labor Day. Provided, however, that a burial
may be permitted on any of the days described above if the deceased die of a
contagious disease, or if other health or welfare concerns so require.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 9-18-23)
§ 95A.14 DOUBLE DEPTH BURIALS PROHIBITED.
   Double depth burials are prohibited except for cremains or where
authorization has previously been granted by the city, in writing.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 9-18-23)
§ 95A.15 EAST-WEST BURIALS.
   All burials shall be with the length of the casket on an east-west alignment
unless the lot or parcel is not large enough or so aligned as to allow east-
west burial; then upon application to the Sexton, such burial will be allowed
to be on a north-south alignment. The Sexton shall give permission for the
irregular burials only under those circumstances when the markers would be
compatible with others already established in the same area. The markers for
all north-south burials must be level with the ground.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 9-18-23)
§ 95A.16 OPERATION OF VEHICLES AND SPEED LIMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate a vehicle on
cemetery grounds except on clearly designated areas designed for motor vehicle
traffic.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any motor
vehicle within the limits of the cemetery at a rate of speed greater than ten
(10) miles per hour, or in any other manner that would endanger persons or
property.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 9-18-23)
§ 95A.17 CURFEW AND DEFACING PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the City Sexton
to be in the cemetery from one-half hour after sundown to one-half hour before
sunrise of any day. A person will be considered to be "in the cemetery" if he
or she is within the perimeter of the cemetery as established by a fence, or is
upon any portion of the property set aside as present or future cemetery proper
as designated in the appropriate records of the city and county.
   (B)   Cemetery patrons only are allowed in the cemetery. It shall be
unlawful for any person to climb over or crawl under the cemetery fence or to
damage a cemetery fence.
   (C)   Children under twelve (12) years of age must be accompanied at all
times on the cemetery property by a parent or some supervising adult eighteen
(18) years of age or older.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to engage in recreational or other inapproptiate
activities on the cemetery property.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or deface any monument,
marker, tree, shrub or any other property in the city cemetery.
   (F)   The Sexton, any person working for the Sexton's office or any peace
officer is empowered to enforce the provisions of this section and to abate any
vandalism or trespassing within the cemetery property.
   (G)   Any violation of this chapter will constitute a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 9-18-23)
§ 95A.18 FLOWERS.
   (A)   The City Sexton, Public Works Director, and the city's contracted
landscaper may remove all floral pieces left on new graves longer than five (5)
days.
   (B)   All flowers and other decorations should be confined to the headstone
and its cement apron. Planted flowers, shrubs, trees, and similar are
prohibited unless approved by the city. Glass containers are prohibited and
will be removed from the cemetery on discovery. Items driven into the ground
such as iron, wires, sticks and pegs may be removed if they interfere with lawn
maintenance.
   (C)   The city, its employees, and agents, shall not be responsible or
liable for theft of, damage to, or injury arising from flowers, decorations,
and other personal property left in the cemetery.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 9-18-23)
§ 95A.19 ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No animals shall be allowed in the city cemetery unless confined in a
vehicle. It shall be unlawful for any person having the care of any animal to
allow the animal to be within the cemetery except physically confined in a
motor vehicle.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 9-18-23)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   RESERVED
      
110A.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX
      
111.   RESERVED
      
111A.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   PAWNBROKERS
      
113.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
      
114.   SMOKING/VAPE RETAIL STORES
CHAPTER 110: RESERVED
CHAPTER 110A: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX
Section
   
110A.01   Definitions
   
110A.02   Business license required
   
110A.03   Occupational tax payment required
   
110A.04   Employers to withhold
   
110A.05   Refunds
   
110A.06   Administrative provisions
   
110A.07   Information to remain confidential
   
110A.08   Penalties
   
110A.09   Use of occupational tax and business license fee
§ 110A.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms and their derivatives shall
have the following meanings unless the context clearly indicates that a
different meaning is intended:
   BUSINESS. Any enterprise, activity, trade, occupation, profession or
undertaking of any nature conducted for gain or profit. BUSINESS shall not
include the usual activities of board of trade, chambers of commerce, trade
associations, or unions, or other associations performing services usually
performed by trade associations or unions. BUSINESS shall not include funds,
foundations, corporations, or associations organized and operated for the
exclusive and sole purpose of religious, charitable, scientific, literary,
educational, civic or fraternal purposes, where no part of the earnings,
incomes or receipts of such unit, group, or association, inures to the benefit
of any private shareholder or other person.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. Each separate corporation, limited liability company,
business development corporation, partnership, limited partnership, registered
limited liability partnership, sole proprietorship, association joint stock
company, receivership, trust, professional service organization, or other legal
entity through which business is conducted.
   BUSINESS LICENSE. A license required by the city, pursuant to the police
power thereof, for the purpose of regulating business activities and operations
within the city.
   CITY. The city of Union, Boone County, Kentucky.
   CITY ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER (CAO). The city’s top, non-political, executive
who manages the city’s day-to-day operations.
   CITY CLERK. The position of Clerk of the city.
   COMPENSATION. Wages, salaries, commissions, or any other form of
remuneration paid or payable by an employer for services performed by an
employee, which are required to be reported for federal income tax purposes and
adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any retirement,
profit sharing, or deferred compensation plan, which are deferred for federal
income tax purposes under a salary reduction agreement or similar arrangement,
including but not limited to salary reduction arrangements under Sections 401
(a), 401(k), 402(e), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 414(h), or 457 of the Internal
Revenue Code; and
      (2)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any welfare
benefit, fringe benefit, or other benefit plan made by salary reduction or
other payment method which permits employees to elect to reduce federal taxable
compensation under the Internal Revenue Code, including but not limited to
Sections 125 and 132 of the Internal Revenue Code.
   CONCLUSION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The date that the adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service to net income as reported on the business entity’s
federal income tax return become final and unappealable.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who renders services to another person or any business
entity for compensation, including an officer of a corporation and any officer,
employee, or elected official of the United States, a state, or any political
subdivision of a state, or any agency of instrumentality of any one (1) or more
of the above. A person classified as an independent contractor under the
Internal Revenue Code shall not be considered an EMPLOYEE.
   EMPLOYER. The person for whom an individual performs or performed any
service, of whatever nature, as the employee of such person, except that: if
the person for whom the individual performs or performed the services does not
have control of the payment of the wages for such services, the term EMPLOYER
means the person having control of the payment of such wages.
   FINAL DETERMINATION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The revenue agent’s report or
other documents reflecting the final and unappealable adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service.
   FISCAL YEAR. An accounting period of twelve (12) months ending on the last
day of any month other than December.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. The total amount of considerations received in exchange for
property or services sold, leased or rented during a given period before
deducting costs or expenses. In general, gross receipts of a business shall
encompass all business activities that generate income.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code in effect on December 31,
2003, exclusive of any amendments made subsequent to that date, other than
amendments that extend provisions in effect on December 31, 2004, that would
otherwise terminate.
   PAYROLL. The gross compensation earned by an employee for labor, work or
services provided in the city on behalf of any entity doing business in the
city.
   PERSON. Every natural person, whether a resident or non-resident of the
city. Whenever the word PERSON is used in a clause prescribing and imposing a
penalty in the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as applied to a
partnership or other form of unincorporated enterprise, shall mean the partners
or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, shall mean the officers and
directors thereof.
   RETURN or REPORT. Any properly completed and, if required, signed form,
statement, certification, declaration, or any other document permitted or
required to be submitted or filed with the city.
   SALES REVENUE. Receipts from the sale, lease, or rental of goods, services,
or property.
   TAX DISTRICT. The city, county, urban-county, charter county, consolidated
local government, school district, special taxing district, or any other
statutorily created entity with the authority to levy gross compensation,
payroll, occupation tax or business license fees.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year or fiscal year ending during the calendar
year.
(Ord. 2022-09, passed 5-2-22)
§ 110A.02 BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person and business entity engaged in any business in the city
shall be required to apply for and obtain a business license from the city
before the commencement of business or in the event of a change of business
status each calendar year.
      (1)   Licensees are required to notify the city of any changes in
address, the cessation of business, or any other changes which render the
information supplied to the city in the license application inaccurate.
      (2)   Business license fee leveed and imposed by this chapter shall be
$50.
   (B)   License applications will be obtainable at the City Building or online
on the city’s website. Information collected on the form shall include, but is
not limited to: business name, address, contact number, tax identification
number, name of the ownership and contact information for the authorized
representative who is responsible for the operating and managing the business
in the city, emergency contacts, a brief description of the business, date of
on which the business will begin and any and all information the city
determines is appropriate to collect.
   (C)   The giving of false or intentionally misleading information on the
application shall be grounds for denial of the license applied for or, if a
license has been granted, revocation thereof upon discovery.
   (D)   All applications for licenses hereunder shall be subject to review by
the CAO who shall endorse his or her decision for approval or denial. The CAO
may refer an application to any other official, employee, or department of the
city or cooperating authority, such as the Boone County Sheriff’s Office, as he
or she deems appropriate for review. The CAO may require such additional
information from the applicant as deemed reasonable in order to make a decision
on the application.
      (1)   After review, the CAO may approve, approve conditionally, or deny
the license. If denied, the CAO must provide a written explanation of the
grounds of denial. The applicant has the right to appeal to the City
Commission, in writing submitted to the city, within thirty (30) days of the
denial.
      (2)   If interested in challenging the denial, written statements shall
include the grounds upon which to avoid such decision. The City Commission may
consider the appeal at the next regular monthly Commission meeting but must be
received five (5) business days prior to. The order of the City Commission on
the appeal shall be final.
      (3)   Revoked business licenses may result in barring the previous
license holder for a period of up to two (2) years as determined by the City
Commission.
   (E)   All business licenses expire on December 31 of that calendar year.
   (F)   Business licenses may be purchased for the next calendar year starting
in November of the preceding year.
   (G)   All vetting guidelines provided in division (D) of this section shall
not be needed for renewal of a license unless there is a material change in the
ownership, location, or type of business being conducted.
(Ord. 2022-09, passed 5-2-22)
§ 110A.03 OCCUPATIONAL TAX PAYMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, every person or
business entity engaged in any business for profit and any person or business
entity that is required to make a filing with the Internal Revenue Service or
the Kentucky Revenue Cabinet shall be required to file and pay to the city an
occupational tax for the privilege of engaging in such activities within the
city. The occupational tax shall be measured by:
      (1)   Two percent (2%) all wages and compensation paid or payable in the
city for work done or services performed or rendered in the city by every
resident and nonresident who is an employee;
      (2)   Zero percent (0%) of the gross receipts from business conducted in
the city by a resident or nonresident business entity.
   (B)   The occupational tax imposed in this section shall not apply to the
following persons or business entities:
      (1)   Any compensation received by members of the Kentucky National Guard
for active duty training, unit training assemblies and annual field training;
      (2)   Any compensation received by precinct workers for election training
or work at election booths in state, county, and local primary, regular, or
special elections.
   (C)   When compensation is paid or payable for work done or services
performed or rendered by an employee, both within and without the city, the tax
shall be measured by that part of the compensation paid or payable as a result
of work done or service performed or rendered within the city. Payroll due
shall only consider compensation for work performed or services rendered within
the city. For the city to verify the accuracy of a taxpayer’s reported
percentages under this section, the taxpayer shall maintain adequate records.
Such records will be made available by request of the city shall it be deemed
necessary.
   (D)   The maximum annual gross earnings subject to division (A) of this
section shall be set at the current Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA)
rate per calendar year.
(Ord. 2022-09, passed 5-2-22)
§ 110A.04 EMPLOYERS TO WITHHOLD.
   (A)   Every employer making payment of compensation to an employee shall
deduct and withhold from the compensation an occupational tax leveed under §
110A.03 of this chapter.
   (B)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall, for the quarter ending after January 1 and for each quarter ending
thereafter, on or before the end of the month following the close of each
quarter, make a return and report to the city, and pay to the city, the tax
required to be withheld under this section, unless the employer is permitted or
required to report within a reasonable time after some other period as
determined by the city.
   (C)   Every employer who fails to withhold or pay to the city any sums
required by this chapter to be withheld and paid shall be personally and
individually liable to the city for any sum or sums withheld or required to be
withheld in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (D)   The city shall have a lien upon all the property of any employer who
fails to withhold or pay over to the city sums required to be withheld under
this section. If the employer withholds, but fails to pay the amounts withheld
to the city, the lien shall commence as of the date the amounts withheld were
required to be paid to the city. If the employer fails to withhold, the lien
shall commence at the time the liability of the employer is assessed by the
city.
   (E)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall annually on or before February 28 of each year complete and file on a
form furnished or approved by the city a reconciliation of the occupational tax
withheld where compensation is paid or payable to employees. Either copies of
federal forms W-2 and W-3, transmittal of wage and tax statements, or
(preferred) a detailed employee listing with the required equivalent
information, as determined by the city, shall be submitted.
   (F)   Every employer shall furnish each employee a statement on or before
January 31 of each year showing the amount of compensation and occupational tax
deducted by the employer from the compensation paid to the employee for payment
to the city during the preceding calendar year.
   (G)   The president, vice president, secretary, treasurer or any other
person holding an equivalent corporate office of any business entity subject to
this section shall be personally and individually liable, both jointly and
severally, for any tax required to be withheld from compensation paid or
payable to one or more employees of the business entity, and neither the
corporate dissolution or withdrawal of the business entity from the city, nor
the cessation of holding any corporate office, shall discharge that liability;
provided that the personal and individual liability shall apply to each and
every person holding the corporate office at the time the tax becomes or became
obligated. No person shall be personally and individually liable under this
section unless such person had authority to collect, truthfully account for, or
pay over the tax imposed by this chapter at the time that the taxes imposed by
this chapter become or became due.
   (H)   Not withstanding divisions (A) and (G) of this section, every employee
receiving compensation in the city subject to the tax imposed under §
110A.03 of this chapter shall be personally liable for any amount due. In all
cases where the employer does not withhold the tax levied under this chapter
from the employee, such employee or employees shall be responsible for filing
with the city each quarter in the same manner as if they were the employer.
   (I)   Every business entity subject to an occupational tax governed by the
provisions of this chapter shall keep records, render under oath statements,
make returns, and comply with rules as the city from time to time may
prescribe. Whenever the city deems it necessary, the city may require a
business entity, by notice served to the business entity, to make a return,
render statements under oath, or keep records, as the city deems sufficient to
determine the tax liability the business entity.
(Ord. 2022-09, passed 5-2-22)
§ 110A.05 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Where there has been an overpayment of tax under §
110A.04 of this chapter, a refund or credit shall be made to the employer to
the extent of overpayment only if a written application for refund or credit is
received by the city from the employer within two (2) years from the date the
overpayment was made.
   (B)   An employee who has compensation attributable to activities performed
outside the city, based on time spent outside the city, whose employer has
withheld and remitted to this city, the occupational tax on the compensation
attributable to activities performed outside the city, may file for a refund
within two (2) years of the date prescribed by law for the filing of a return.
The employee shall provide a schedule and computation sufficient to verify the
refund claim and the city may confirm with the employer the percentage of time
spent outside the city and the amount of compensation attributable to
activities performed outside the city prior to approval of the refund.
   (C)   In furtherance of the city’s authorized public purposes, including job
creation and economic development and consistent with the credit contemplated
under KRS 65.7056, the city authorizes a credit against its occupational
license fee for the term of any local development area established by the
county pursuant to KRS 65.7041, et. seq. over which the county also imposes an
occupational license fee 2023 assessment. The term of the foregoing credit
shall commence with the commencement date of such local development area and
end on the termination date for such local development area, and the amount of
the credit shall be equal to the lesser of (i) the rate of the occupational
license fee assessment levied against the wages of employees within the local
development area, or (ii) one-point-two percent (1.2%). Such credit shall be
claimed by employers operating within the local development area at the
withholding level in accordance with §
110A.04(B) hereof the Mayor is hereby directed and authorized to execute an
agreement memorializing the administration of the foregoing credit at the
withholding level with any designated collection agent approved by the City
Commission.
(Ord. 2022-09, passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 2022-16, 9-7-22)
§ 110A.06 ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No suit shall be maintained in any court to restrain or delay the
collection or payment of the tax levied by this chapter.
   (B)   The authority to refund or credit overpayments of taxes collected
pursuant to this chapter is vested exclusively in the city.
(Ord. 2022-09, passed 5-2-22)
§ 110A.07 INFORMATION TO REMAIN CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   No present or former employee of any tax district shall intentionally
and without authorization inspect or divulge any information acquired by him or
her of the affairs of any person, or information regarding the tax schedules,
returns, or reports required to be filed with the tax district or other proper
officer, or any information produced by a hearing or investigation, insofar as
the information may have to do with the affairs of the person's business. This
prohibition does not extend to information required in prosecutions for making
false reports or returns for taxation, or any other infraction of the tax laws,
or in any way made a matter of public record, nor does it preclude furnishing
any taxpayer or the taxpayer's properly authorized agent with information
respecting his or her own return. Further, this prohibition does not preclude
any employee of the tax district from testifying in any court, or from
introducing as evidence returns or reports filed with the tax district, in an
action for violation of a tax district tax law or in any action challenging a
tax district tax laws.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to disclose to the Commissioner of Revenue
of the Commonwealth of Kentucky or his or her duly authorized agent all such
information and rights to inspect any of the books and records of the city if
the Commissioner of Revenue of the Commonwealth of Kentucky grants to the city
the reciprocal right to obtain information from the files and records of the
Kentucky Department of Revenue and maintains the privileged character of the
information so furnished. Provided, further, that the city may publish
statistics based on such information in such a manner as not to reveal data
respecting net profits or compensation of any person or business entity.
   (C)   In addition, the city is empowered to execute similar reciprocity
agreements as described in division (B) of this section with any other taxing
entity, should there be a need for exchange of information in order to effect
diligent enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-09, passed 5-2-22)
§ 110A.08 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Every employer who fails to file a return or pay the tax on or before
the time prescribed under §
110A.04 of this chapter may be subject to a penalty in amount equal to five
percent (5%) of the tax due for each calendar month. The total penalty levied
pursuant to this section shall not exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of the
total tax due; however, the penalty shall not be less than twenty-five dollars
($25.00). A fraction of a month is counted as an entire month.
   (B)   Every tax imposed by this chapter, and all increases, interest, and
penalties thereon, shall become, from the time the tax is due and payable, a
personal debt of the business to the city.
   (C)   The city may enforce the business license requirement and the
collection of the occupational tax due under previous section of this chapter
and any fees, penalties, and interest of this section by civil action in a
court of appropriate jurisdiction. To the extent authorized by law, the city
shall be entitled to recover all court costs and reasonable attorney fees
incurred by it in enforcing any provision of this chapter.
   (D)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer who willfully fails to pay taxes owing or collected, with
the intent to evade payment of the tax or amount collected, or any part
thereof, shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (E)   Any person who willfully aids or assists in, or procures, counsels, or
advises the preparation or presentation under, or in connection with, any
matter arising under this chapter of a return, affidavit, claim, or other
document, which is fraudulent or is false as to any material matter, whether or
not the falsity or fraud is with the knowledge or consent of the person
authorized or required to present the return, affidavit, claim, or document,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (F)   Any person violating the provisions of §
110A.07 of this chapter by intentionally inspecting confidential taxpayer
information without authorization, shall be fined not more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned for not longer than six (6) months, or both.
   (G)   Any person violating the provisions of §
110A.07 of this chapter by divulging confidential taxpayer information shall be
fined not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisoned for not more
than one (1) year, or both.
   (H)   Any person doing business within the city limits and who fails to
obtain a business license on or before March 31 of the year for which the
license would have been issued shall be fined five hundred dollars ($500) for
the violation.
(Ord. 2022-09, passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 2023-14, passed 10-2-23)
§ 110A.09 USE OF OCCUPATIONAL TAX AND BUSINESS LICENSE FEE.
   All money derived from the taxes and fees under the provisions of this
chapter shall be paid to the city and placed to the credit of the city’s
General Revenue Fund.
(Ord. 2022-09, passed 5-2-22)
CHAPTER 111: RESERVED
CHAPTER 111A: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111A.01   Definitions
   
111A.02   License requirement
   
111A.03   Prohibitions
   
111A.04   Revocation procedure
   
111A.05   Standards for revocation
   
111A.06   Appeal procedure
 
   
111A.99   Penalty
§ 111A.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used herein, the following words and phrases have the meanings indicated
therefore:
   ANTI-SOLICITATION PROPERTY. Any property in the city, which has been either:
      (1)   Posted with signs with the words "No Solicitors," or ''No
Trespassing," or other words of similar import thereon; or
      (2)   Registered by an owner or occupant thereof with the City Clerk as
property to which uninvited solicitors are prohibited.
   ANYBODY. Any human being, or organization or combination thereof in the form
of a corporation, partnership, joint venture, unincorporated association or
otherwise.
   BUSINESS. The business carried by any person who is an itinerant merchant,
peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   EVERYBODY. Every human being, or organization or combination thereof in the
form of a corporation, partnership, joint venture, unincorporated association
or otherwise.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted, to wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place with the city.
   MOTOR VEHICLE SOLICITATION. The solicitation of the operator or occupant of
any motor vehicle on any street or highway in the city, while the solicitor is
standing outside the motor vehicle in the travel portion of the street or
highway.
   NOBODY. No human being, or any organization or combination thereof in the
form of a corporation, partnership, joint venture, unincorporated association
or otherwise.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale, or making sales, or making deliveries;
      (2)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city; or
      (3)   A person who is a peddler is not an itinerant merchant.
   REGISTERED SOLICITOR. A solicitor who has registered with the City Clerk
therefore, by completing a solicitor registration form provided thereby, which
shall provide the following information about the solicitor:
      (1)   Legal name;
      (2)   Date of birth;
      (3)   Residence address and telephone number;
      (4)   Name, address and telephone number of employer;
      (5)   A copy of the solicitor's driver's license, passport or military
ID; and
      (6)   Social Security Number and/or federal ID number.
   SOLICITATION. The solicitation of contributions, the sales of goods or
services or pledges, orders or subscriptions therefore, including, without
limitation, the activities of those historically known and identified as
peddlers, hawkers, canvassers, itinerant vendors and transient merchants.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a solicitor is not
a peddler.
   UNINVITED RESIDENTIAL SOLICITATION. A solicitation at a residence in the
city, without a prior appointment or other invitation therefore by an owner or
occupant of the residence.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 9-18-23)
§ 111A.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a business license and solicitor's permit before engaging in such
activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the City Commission.
   (C)   All business licenses for the city expire December 31 each year. All
solicitor permits issued under this chapter shall expire sixty (60) days after
the date of issuance thereof.
   (D)   Any permit issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall be
posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein.
   (E)   The City Clerk shall issue one business license. The City Clerk shall
issue a permit to each peddler or solicitor licensed under this chapter. The
permit shall contain the words “solicitors permit,” a copy of photo ID, and the
issue date. The permit shall be kept with the licensee during such time as he
or she is engaged in the business licensed.
   (F)   The fee for the solicitors permit required by this section shall be
five dollars ($5.00) per application, except from charitable applicants who
shall be exempt from payment of the fee.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 9-18-23)
§ 111A.03 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Nobody shall cause, permit, promote, suffer, allow, aid, assist,
encourage or engage in any of the following described solicitations:
      (1)   Motor vehicle solicitation;
      (2)   Uninvited residential solicitation by anybody other than a
registered solicitor; or
      (3)   Uninvited residential solicitation upon any anti-solicitation
property.
   (B)   Any authorized solicitation shall take place only during the hours of
10:00 a.m. until 7:00 p.m.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 9-18-23)
§ 111A.04 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk after notice and hearing. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given
in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds for the complaint and the
time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at
his or her last known address, at least ten (10) days prior to the date set for
the hearing.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 9-18-23)
§ 111A.05 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 9-18-23)
§ 111A.06 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   Any person aggrieved by a decision under the previous sections shall have
the right to appeal to the City Commission. The appeal shall be taken by filing
with the City Commission, within fourteen (14) days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to such person's last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for the appeal. The City Commission shall
set the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be
given to such person in the same manner as provided above.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 9-18-23)
§ 111A.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal penalties. Each violation of this chapter shall be a
misdemeanor for which everybody convicted thereof in a court of competent
jurisdiction shall be sentenced to pay a criminal fine not to exceed the
maximum amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) as set forth in KRS 534.050(2)
(a) or a term of imprisonment not to exceed the maximum period of twelve (12)
months as set forth in KRS 532.090(1), or both.
   (B)   Civil penalties. Each separate violation of this chapter is hereby
classified as a civil offense, for which:
      (1)   The maximum civil fine required by KRS 65.8808(2)(b) that may be
imposed for each separate violation of this chapter, is hereby established as
five hundred dollars ($500.00);
      (2)   The specific civil fine required by KRS 65.8808(2)(c) that will be
imposed for each separate offense and violation of this chapter if the person
who has committed the violation and offense does not contest a citation
therefor, is hereby established as one hundred dollars ($100.00); and
      (3)   An enforcement officer may, in lieu of immediately issuing a civil
citation therefor, give notice that the violation of this chapter shall be
remedied within a specific period of time.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 9-18-23)
CHAPTER 112: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Bond
   
112.03   Register to be kept; daily reports
   
112.04   Receipt to be given for each article; sale of article
   
112.05   Maximum interest, resale price
   
112.06   Receipt to be given for payment of loan
   
112.07   Prohibited activities
   
112.08   Enforcement
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property;
deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the property
back again at a stipulated price; makes a public display at his or her place of
business of the sign generally used by pawnbrokers to denote their business; or
who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on personal property or
deposit.
(KRS 226.010)
§ 112.02 BOND.
   Every person to whom a city license is granted to carry on the business of a
pawnbroker shall annually enter into bond to the city, with good and sufficient
surety to be approved by the City Commission, in the penal sum of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00). This bond shall be conditioned that he or she will observe
the provisions of this chapter and all ordinances and laws in force in the city
not inconsistent with this chapter.
(KRS 226.020)
§ 112.03 REGISTER TO BE KEPT; DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)   (1)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and
purchases of all articles by the pawnbroker from the general public. The
register shall:
         (a)   Be reported to an online, Internet-based transaction recording
service accessible to law enforcement agencies;
         (b)   Show the dates and the amounts of all loans or purchases by the
pawnbroker from the general public, and the names and:
            1.   A driver’s license number;
            2.   Another state or federally issued picture identification card
number; or
            3.   If the identification specified in subparagraph 1. or 2. of
this paragraph is not available, a Social Security number may be accepted;
            of all persons who have left any property that has been pawned or
sold;
         (c)   At all times be available to the inspection of any law
enforcement officer of this state when in the discharge of his or her official
duty; and
         (d)   Contain a full description of all property purchased by the
pawnbroker from the general public or received on deposit as collateral or
security. When requested by law enforcement and pertaining to an investigation,
a photograph of the merchandise shall be made available to law enforcement if
the property is still in the possession of the pawnbroker. For purposes of this
paragraph, “full description” includes but is not limited to:
            1.   Make;
            2.   Model;
            3.   Color;
            4.   Size;
            5.   Manufacturer;
            6.   Vintage; and
            7.   Distinguishing marks or characteristics.
      (2)   When secondhand merchandise is sold to a pawnbroker, the
merchandise shall be held for a minimum of twelve (12) days before being
resold.
      (3)   Prior to the release of property to a representative of law
enforcement, the law enforcement representative shall provide to the pawnbroker
a case report or other documentation that the item has been reported as stolen.
(KRS 226.040)
   (B)   Every pawnbroker shall, by 11:00 a.m. each day, make available to the
Chief of Police a true and correct written report of all goods received by him
or her, whether by pawn or purchase, during the twenty-four (24) hours
preceding each report. The report shall describe the goods as accurately as
practicable. The Chief of Police shall furnish blanks for these reports.
(KRS 226.070)
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR EACH ARTICLE; SALE OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall give a plain written or printed ticket for the
loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased or upon which money is loaned,
having on each a copy of the entries required by §
112.03(A) to be kept in his or her register. He or she shall not make any
charge for the ticket or receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of sixty
(60) days from the maturity of the loan. However, not less than ten (10) days
before making the sale, the pawnbroker shall give notice to the person by whom
the article was pawned by mail addressed to the post office address of that
person as shown on the pawnbroker’s register, notifying such person that,
unless he or she redeems the article within ten (10) days from the date of
mailing of the notice, the article will be sold.
(KRS 226.050) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 MAXIMUM INTEREST, RESALE PRICE.
   Any pawnbroker as defined in §
112.01, may, in loaning money on deposit of personal property, charge, contract
for, or receive interest at a rate not exceeding two percent (2%) per month on
the unpaid principal balance of the loan, and may charge, contract for, and
receive a reasonable fee, not to exceed one-fifth (1/5) of the value of the
loan per month, for investigating the title, storing and insuring the property,
closing the loan, making daily reports to local law enforcement officers if
required by §
112.03, and for other expenses, losses, and incidental costs associated with
servicing such loans. Further, this fee, when made and collected, shall not be
deemed as interest for any purpose of law. No pawnbroker shall directly or
indirectly charge, receive, or contract for any interest or consideration
greater than that allowed by this section.
(KRS 226.080) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR PAYMENT OF LOAN.
   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower, shall
give to that person a plain and complete receipt for such payment, specifying
separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to interest.
In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased personal property under an
agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on
receiving any payment of money from the person from whom the property was
purchased, give that person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the
stipulated resale price, and the amount received.
(KRS 226.090) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of either pledge or pawn, any article
whatsoever from a minor at any time nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m.
(KRS 226.030) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter unless
otherwise provided by KRS 226.100. However, county police, for the purpose of
locating stolen goods, may carry out the provisions of KRS 226.060 within the
city.
(KRS 226.100)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any pawnbroker or pawnbroker’s clerk who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter for which no penalty is otherwise provided shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and his
license may be forfeited to the city.
(KRS 226.990(1))
   (B)   Any pawnbroker who violates any of the provisions of §
112.03(B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
twenty dollars ($20.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
(KRS 226.990(3))
CHAPTER 113: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
113.01   Imposition of license fee
   
113.02   Amount of fee for companies issuing life insurance
   
113.03   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
113.04   Due date; interest
   
113.05   Written breakdown of collections
§ 113.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city, on a calendar-year basis.
§ 113.02 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING LIFE INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues life
insurance policies on the lives of persons residing within the corporate limits
of the city shall be five percent (5%) of the first year's premiums actually
collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of such
policies.
(KRS 91A.080(2))
§ 113.03 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   (A)   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be five percent
(5%) of the premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason
of the issuance of such policies on risks located within the corporate limits
of the city on those classes of business which such company is authorized to
transact, less all premiums returned to policyholders.
   (B)   No license fee or tax imposed under this section shall apply to
premiums: 
      (1)   Received on policies of group health insurance provided for state
employees under KRS 18A.225;
      (2)   Received on policies insuring employers against liability for
personal injuries to their employees or the death of their employees caused
thereby, under the provisions of KRS Chapter 342;
      (3)   Received on health insurance policies issued to individuals;
      (4)   Received on policies issued through Kentucky Access created in KRS
Chapter 304, Subtitle 17B;
      (5)   Received on policies for high deductible health plans as defined in
26 U.S.C. § 223(c)(2);
      (6)   Received on multi-state surplus lines, defined as non-admitted
insurance as provided in Title V, Subtitle B, the Non-Admitted and Reinsurance
Reform Act of 2010, of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act, Pub. L. No. 111-203;
      (7)   Paid to insurance companies or surplus lines brokers by nonprofit
self-insurance groups or self-insurance entities whose membership consists of
school districts; or
      (8)   Paid to insurance companies or surplus lines brokers by nonprofit
self-insurance groups or self-insurance entities whose membership consists of
cities, counties, charter county governments, urban-county governments,
consolidated local governments, unified local governments, school districts, or
any other political subdivisions of the Commonwealth.
(KRS 91A.080(3), (10))
§ 113.04 DUE DATE; INTEREST.
   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than thirty
(30) days after the end of each calendar quarter. License fees which are not
paid on or before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as
defined in KRS 131.010(6).
(KRS 91A.080(8),(9))
§ 113.05 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city with a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty.
   (B)   Automobile.
   (C)   Inland marine.
   (D)   Fire and allied perils.
   (E)   Health.
   (F)   Life.
(KRS 91A.080(8))
CHAPTER 114: SMOKING/VAPE RETAIL STORES
Section
   
114.01      Definitions
   
114.02      Permitted use with standards for smoking/vape retail stores
   
114.03      Exemption
 
   
114.99      Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELECTRONIC NICOTINE DELIVERY SYSTEMS (ENDS). Vapes, vaporizers, vape pen,
hookah pens, electronic cigarettes (e-cigarette or e-cigs), e-cigars, and e-
pipes.
   SMOKING/VAPE RETAIL STORE. A store which is engaged in the primary sale of
tobacco, tobacco products and/or electronic nicotine delivery systems (ENDS).
(Ord. 2024-09, passed 5-21-24)
§ 114.02 PERMITTED USE WITH STANDARDS FOR SMOKING/VAPE RETAIL STORES.
   (A)   No smoking/vape retail store shall be located within one thousand
(1,000) feet of the boundary of any parcel occupied by any of the following
uses (as measured in a straight line from parcel boundary to parcel boundary);
      (1)   Public or private early childhood, elementary, middle or high
school;
      (2)   Public and/or private park;
      (3)   Public playground;
      (4)   Community center;
      (5)   Day care center; and
      (6)   Athletic facility (indoor and outdoor).
   (B)   No smoking/vape retail store shall be located within six hundred (600)
feet of a site occupied by another smoking retail store as measured in a
straight line from parcel boundary to parcel boundary.
   (C)   The hours of operation for a smoking/vape retail store shall be no
earlier than 6:00 a.m. and no later than 10:00 p.m., seven (7) days a week.
(Ord. 2024-09, passed 5-21-24)
§ 114.03 EXEMPTION.
   It is understood that there are retail stores located within the above-
referenced distance restrictions which sell tobacco products as an accessory
use which generate less than 25% of the stores' gross sales as a result of the
sale of tobacco products. In that event that store would be exempt from the
distance restrictions set forth herein above as long as the store does not
provide a smoking area within the store and does not sell electronic nicotine
delivery systems (ENDS).
(Ord. 2024-09, passed 5-21-24)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   The following penalties shall apply to violations of this chapter: Any
person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter shall
be subject to a civil fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100) per day
per violation but not more than five hundred dollars ($500) per day per
violation. Each day that a violation of this chapter continues shall be deemed
a separate offense.
(Ord. 2024-09, passed 5-21-24)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   CURFEW
CHAPTER 130: CURFEW
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Establishment of curfew hours
   
130.03   Offenses
   
130.04   Defenses
   
130.05   Enforcement
   
130.06   Review and report to Mayor
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases have the meanings
indicated therefore:
   CURFEW HOURS.
      (1)    The hours between 11:00 p.m., prevailing time, on any Sunday,
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday and 6:00 a.m., prevailing time, on the
following day; and
      (2)   The hours between 1:00 a.m. prevailing time and 6:00 a.m.
prevailing time, on any Saturday and Sunday.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, without limitation, fires,
floods, natural disasters, automobile accidents and any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately owned place of business, which is operated for
a profit, and to which the public is invited, including, without limitation,
any place of amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN.
      (1)   Any person who is the guardian of the person of a minor pursuant to
a court order or judgment; or
      (2)   Any public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court order.
   MINOR. Any person under 18 years of age.
   Curfew
   OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation or
other entity, operating, managing, or conducting any establishment, including,
without limitation, the members or partners of an association, partnership, or
limited liability company, and the officers of a corporation.
   PARENT. The natural parent, adoptive parent and step-parent of a person
under 18 years of age; and also any person at least 18 years of age who has
been authorized and appointed by a parent or guardian to have the care, custody
and control of a child or ward thereof under 18 years of age.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access, including, without limitation, streets, highways, parks,
playgrounds and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses,
office buildings and transportation facilities.
   REMAIN.
      (1)   To linger or stay; or
      (2)   To fail to leave the premises when requested to do so by any peace
officer, or the owner, tenant, operator or any other person in control of the
premises.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. A bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death, or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted
loss or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
(Ord. 2005-001, passed 2-14-05)
§ 130.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF CURFEW HOURS.
   The following curfew hours for minors are hereby established by, in and for
the city as follows:
   (A)   The hours between 11:00 p.m. prevailing time, on any Sunday, Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday and 6:00 a.m. prevailing time, on the following
day; and
   (B)   The hours between 1:00 a.m. prevailing time, and 6:00 a.m. prevailing
time, on any Saturday or Sunday.
(Ord. 2005-001, passed 2-14-05)
§ 130.03 OFFENSES.
   During the curfew hours established hereby:
   (A)   No minor shall remain in any public place or on the premises of any
establishment;
   (B)   No parent or guardian of any minor shall knowingly permit or allow, by
insufficient control or supervision, or otherwise, the minor to remain in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment; and
   (C)   No owner, operator or employee of any establishment shall knowingly
permit, or allow by insufficient supervision and control, or otherwise, any
minor to remain upon the premises of the establishment.
(Ord. 2005-001, passed 2-14-05)
§ 130.04 DEFENSES.
   The following circumstances are hereby established as affirmative defenses
to any criminal or civil proceedings for any violation of this chapter:
   (A)   The minor was:
      (1)   Accompanied by the parent or guardian thereof;
      (2)   In a motor vehicle in the course of interstate travel;
      (3)   Engaged in any employment activity, or going to or returning home
from any employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (4)   Involved in an emergency;
      (5)   On the sidewalk abutting the residence of the minor, or abutting
the residence of a next door neighbor, without any complaint by the next door
neighbor to the local law enforcement agency about the presence of the minor
thereon;
      (6)   Attending any school or religious activity, or any recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by either the city, a civic
organization, or other similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor,
or going to or returning home from any such activity, without any detour or
stop;
      (7)   Exercising any rights secured and protected by the first amendment
to the United States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion,
freedom of speech and the right of peaceable assembly;
      (8)   Married or otherwise emancipated; or
   (B)   The owner, operator or employee of an establishment has promptly
notified the local law enforcement agency that the minor was present on the
premises during curfew hours and refused to leave.
(Ord. 2005-001, passed 2-14-05)
§ 130.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Before enforcing any provision of this chapter by a citation, arrest,
or other custodial activity, the enforcing officer(s) shall inquire of the
person suspected of being a minor as to the actual age of that person and his
or her reason and purpose for remaining or otherwise being in a public place or
establishment during the curfew hours.
   (B)   No enforcing officer shall enforce any provision of this chapter by
any citation, arrest or other custodial activity unless the officer reasonably
believes from the responses of the person suspected of being a minor or any
other circumstances, that an offense and violation of this chapter has
occurred; and that there are no defenses to the enforcement of this chapter as
described herein.
   (C)   In the enforcement of this chapter, all enforcing officers shall
comply with the duties identified in KRS 610.200 through 610.280; and shall
also comply with the provisions of all other applicable laws, including without
limitation, the Kentucky Unified Juvenile Code in KRS Chapters 600 to 645.
(Ord. 2005-001, passed 2-14-05)
§ 130.06 REVIEW AND REPORT TO MAYOR.
   Twelve months after the enactment of this chapter, the Mayor, or his or her
designee, shall review the enforcement thereof, and report and make
recommendation to the City Commission regarding the effectiveness thereof and
the continuing need therefor. The report of the Mayor shall specifically
include the following information:
   (A)   The practicality of enforcing the chapter and any problems with
enforcement identified by the local law enforcement agency; and
   (B)   The impact of the enforcement of the chapter on crime statistics.
(Ord. 2005-001, passed 2-14-05)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Each violation and every other failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter shall be a misdemeanor; and each day of the continuation thereof shall
be a separate and distinct offense for which:
   (A)   Any person convicted of a violation of the provisions thereof in a
court of competent jurisdiction shall be sentenced to pay a criminal fine not
to exceed the maximum amount of $500 as set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(a) or a
term of imprisonment not to exceed the maximum period of 12 months as set forth
in KRS 532.090(1), or both; and
   (B)   The offender shall be subject to a civil penalty of $100 for each
offense, which shall be recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature
of debt if not paid by the offender within 30 days after the citation of the
violation or other failure to comply with the provisions of the chapter.
(Ord. 2005-001, passed 2-14-05)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   UNSAFE STRUCTURES
      
152.   FLOOD PREVENTION
      
153.   PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
      
154.   ZONING
      
155.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Outdoor swimming pools
Standard Codes
   
150.15   Adoption of Kentucky Building Code and standards of safety;
enforcement agents
   
150.16   Application
   
150.17   Appeals
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 OUTDOOR SWIMMING POOLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, or corporation to construct
any outside swimming pool contrary to the following specifications:
   (A)   Swimming pools which are constructed in-ground shall be required to
have a fence or wall, including a self-latching or self-locking gate around the
pool for the property on which the pool is located. Such fence or wall shall be
at least four (4) feet but not more than seven (7) feet in height; such fences
or walls shall be constructed in such a manner that a small child may not reach
the pool from the street or any adjacent property without climbing the fence or
wall or opening the gate.
   (B)(1)   Swimming pools which are located above ground shall be required to
have a fence or wall, including a self-latching or self-locking gate around the
pool on the property on which the pool is located. Such fence or wall shall be
at least four (4) feet, but not more than seven (7) feet in height. Such fence
or wall shall be constructed in such a manner that a small child may not reach
the pool from the street or any adjacent property without scaling a fence or
wall or opening a gate. The wall may be the wall of the above ground pool
providing that said wall is at least four (4) feet in height above the
surrounding ground level.
   (2)   Any access to above ground pools by means of a ladder or stairway
shall be provided with a self-locking or self-latching gate, or some other
device that would prevent a small child from gaining access to the pool by
means of a ladder.
   (C)   Any pool which comes within the operation of this section due to the
construction of a residence on adjoining property, shall comply with this
section by June 1 of the year subsequent to the year of completion of such
residence.
   (D)   Any pool located five hundred (500) feet or more from the nearest
residence (other than that of the pool owner) currently in existence or
hereafter constructed on real estate adjoining that of the pool owner shall be
exempted from compliance with this section.
(Ord. 79-008, passed 8-2-79) Penalty, see §
150.99
STANDARD CODES
§ 150.15 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE AND STANDARDS OF SAFETY;
ENFORCEMENT AGENTS.
   (A)   The Kentucky Building Code, as contained in Chapter 7, Title 815 of
the Kentucky Administrative Regulations; the Kentucky Plumbing Code, as
contained in Chapter 20, Title 815 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations;
the Kentucky Standards of Safety, as contained in Chapter 10, Title 815 of the
Kentucky Administrative Regulations, together with any amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference as if fully set forth in this code of ordinances. Copies
of the above codes and any amendments thereto shall be placed on file in the
office of the City Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (B)   The Chief Building Official shall be designated as the local
enforcement agent for the Kentucky Building Code.
   (C)   The Chief Building Official and all other designated officers, agents,
and employees of the city are hereby charged with the enforcement of the
provisions of the Standards of Safety.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.16 APPLICATION.
The application of the State Building Code shall be extended to all single-
family dwellings in the city which are to be constructed or remodeled.
§ 150.17 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions made by the Building Inspector under this chapter may
be taken to the State Board of Housing, Buildings and Construction unless and/
or until a local board of housing appeals, as set forth in KRS Chapter 198B, is
established to hear such appeals.
Statutory reference:
   Appeals procedure, see KRS 198B.070
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, persons, or corporations violating §
150.01 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
Each day in violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 79-008, passed 8-2-79)
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §
150.15 shall be subject to the following penalties:
      (1)    Violators of the Uniform State Building Code or the Uniform State
Residential Code shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than
ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each
offense.
(KRS 198B.990(1))
      (2)   Violators of the State Standards of Safety shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine of not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more
than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), imprisonment for not more than sixty
(60) days, or both, for each offense.
(KRS 227.990(1))
      (3)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00), imprisonment for not more than ninety (90) days, or
both, for each offense.
(KRS 318.990)
CHAPTER 151: UNSAFE STRUCTURES
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Power of city to repair, close or demolish unfit structures
   
151.03   Resolutions relating to unfit structures
   
151.04   Petition alleging structure is unfit; complaint; notice and hearing
   
151.05   Issuance of order to repair, alter, remove, or demolish
   
151.06   Repair, closing, or demolition when order not complied with; lien for
expense
   
151.07   Conditions warranting finding of unfitness
   
151.08   Eviction of occupants
   
151.09   Service of complaints and orders
   
151.10   Injunction to restrain enforcement of order
   
151.11   Power of city officers to investigate structures and obtain evidence
   
151.12   Appropriations
   
151.13   Specifications for demolition of unsafe structures
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see §§
92.01 et seq.
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY AUTHORITY. Any housing authority or any officer who is in charge of any
department or branch of the government of the city relating to health, fire,
building regulations, or to other activities concerning structures in the city.
   CITY OFFICER. The officer or officers who are authorized by ordinances and
resolutions adopted hereunder to exercise the powers prescribed by such
ordinances and resolutions.
   GOVERNING BODY. The City Commission.
   OWNER.  The holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations and corporations who have
interests of record in a structure and any who are in possession thereof.
   STRUCTURE. Any building, or part thereof, used or occupied, or intended for
use or occupancy, for human habitation, or commercial or industrial purposes,
and includes any outbuildings and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually
enjoyed therewith.
(Ord. 89-001, passed 3-13-89)
§ 151.02 POWER OF CITY TO REPAIR, CLOSE OR DEMOLISH UNFIT STRUCTURES.
   Whenever the City Commission finds that there exists in the city structures
which are unfit for human habitation, occupancy or use due to dilapidation,
defects, increasing the hazards of fire, accidents or other calamities, lack of
ventilation, light or sanitary facilities, or due to other conditions rendering
such structures unsafe or unsanitary, or dangerous or detrimental to the
health, safety or morals, or otherwise inimical to the welfare of the residents
of the city, the city may exercise its police powers to repair, close or
demolish such structures in the manner provided herein.
(Ord. 89-001, passed 3-13-89)
§ 151.03 RESOLUTIONS RELATING TO UNFIT STRUCTURES.
   Upon the adoption of a resolution finding that structural conditions of the
character described in §
151.02 exist within the city, the governing body of the city may adopt
resolutions relating to the structures within the city which are unfit for
human habitation, occupancy or use. Such resolutions shall provide that a city
officer be designated or appointed to exercise the powers prescribed by the
resolutions and shall include the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 89-001, passed 3-13-89)
§ 151.04 PETITION ALLEGING STRUCTURE IS UNFIT; COMPLAINT; NOTICE AND HEARING.
   Whenever a petition is filed with the city officer by a city authority or by
at least five (5) residents of the city charging that any structure is unfit
for human habitation, occupancy or use, or whenever it appears to the city
officer (on his own motion) that any structure is unfit for human habitation,
occupancy or use, the city officer shall, if his preliminary investigation
discloses a basis for such charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner
of and parties in interest in such structure a complaint stating the charges in
that respect. The complaint shall state that a hearing will be held before the
city officer (or his designated agent) at a place therein fixed not less than
ten (10) days nor more than thirty (30) days after the serving of the
complaint, that the owner and parties in interest may file an answer to the
complaint and appear in person, or otherwise, and give testimony at the place
and time fixed in the complaint; and that the rules of evidence prevailing in
courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the public
officer.
(Ord. 89-001, passed 3-13-89)
§ 151.05 ISSUANCE OF ORDER TO REPAIR, ALTER, REMOVE, OR DEMOLISH.
   If, after the notice and hearing, the city officer determines that the
structure under consideration is unfit for human habitation, occupancy or use,
he shall state in writing his findings of fact in support of such determination
and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an order
requiring the owner:
   (A)   To the intent and within the time specified in the order, to repair,
alter, or improve the said structure to render it fit for human habitation,
occupancy or use, or, at the option of the owner, to vacate and close the
structure; or
   (B)   To remove or demolish the said structure if the repair, alteration, or
improvement of the structure cannot be made or is not made within a reasonable
time after the receipt of the order.
(Ord. 89-001, passed 3-13-89)
§ 151.06 REPAIR, CLOSING, OR DEMOLITION WHEN ORDER NOT COMPLIED WITH; LIEN FOR
EXPENSE.
   (A)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter, or
improve or, at the option of the owner, to vacate and close the structure, the
city officer may cause the structure to be repaired, altered, or improved, or
to be vacated and closed. The city officer may cause to be posted on the main
entrance of any structure so closed, a sign with the following words: “This
building is unfit for human habitation, occupancy, or use; the use or occupancy
of this building for human habitation, occupancy, or use is prohibited and
unlawful.”
   (B)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to remove or demolish the
structure, the city officer may cause such structure to be removed or
demolished.
   (C)   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations, or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition shall be a lien upon the real
property upon which cost was incurred. If the structure is removed or
demolished by the city officer, he shall sell the materials of the structure
and shall credit the proceeds of such sale against the cost of the removal or
demolition and any balance remaining shall be disbursed by the city officer to
the persons found to be entitled thereto.
(Ord. 89-001, passed 3-13-89)
§ 151.07 CONDITIONS WARRANTING FINDING OF UNFITNESS.
   (A)   The city officer may determine that a structure is unfit for human
habitation, occupancy or use if he finds that conditions exist in such
structure which are dangerous or injurious to the health, safety or morals of
the occupants of such structure, the occupants of neighboring structures or
other residents of the city.
   (B)   Such conditions may include the following (without limiting the
generality of the foregoing):
      (1)   Defects increasing the hazards of fire, accident or other
calamities;
      (2)   Lack of adequate ventilation, light or sanitary facilities;
      (3)   Dilapidation;
      (4)   Disrepair, structural defects;
      (5)   Uncleanliness.
(Ord. 89-001, passed 3-13-89)
§ 151.08 EVICTION OF OCCUPANTS.
   When the city officer has condemned as unfit for human habitation, occupancy
or use, any structure, pursuant to the provisions hereunto and has ordered same
to be vacated, the city officer may, after ten (10) days notice to the occupant
or occupants thereof, apply to the District Court of the county and obtain from
such court an order of eviction against the occupant or occupants thereof.
(Ord. 89-001, passed 3-13-89)
§ 151.09 SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   Complaints or orders issued by a city officer pursuant to resolutions
adopted hereunder shall be served upon persons either personally or by
certified mail, but if the whereabouts of such person is unknown and the same
cannot be ascertained by the city officer in the exercise of reasonable
diligence, and the city officer shall make an affidavit to that effect, then
the serving of such complaint or order upon such persons may be made by
publication pursuant to KRS Chapter 424. A copy of such complaint or order
shall be posted in a conspicuous place on premises affected by the complaint or
order and shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk.
(Ord. 89-001, passed 3-13-89)
§ 151.10 INJUNCTION TO RESTRAIN ENFORCEMENT OF ORDER.
   Any person affected by an order issued by the city officer may, within
thirty (30) days after the posting and service of the order, petition the
Circuit Court for an injunction restraining the city officer from carrying out
the provisions of the order, and the court may issue a temporary injunction
restraining the city officer pending the final disposition of the cause.
Hearings shall be held by the court on such petition within twenty (20) days,
or as soon thereafter as possible. In all such proceedings the findings of the
city officer as to facts, if supported by evidence, shall be conclusive. Costs
shall be in the discretion of the court. The remedies herein provided shall be
exclusive remedies and no person affected by an order of the city officer shall
be entitled to recover any damages for action taken pursuant to any order of
the city officer, or because of noncompliance by such person with any order of
the city officer.
(Ord. 89-001, passed 3-13-89)
§ 151.11 POWER OF CITY OFFICERS TO INVESTIGATE STRUCTURES AND OBTAIN EVIDENCE.
   The governing body of the city hereby authorizes the city officer to
exercise such powers as are necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate
the purposes and provisions hereunder, including the following powers in
addition to others herein granted:
   (A)   To investigate the structural conditions in the city in order to
determine which structures therein are unfit for human habitation, occupancy or
use;
   (B)   To administer oaths, affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
   (C)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examination, but such
entries shall be made in such manner to cause the least possible inconvenience
to the persons in possession;
   (D)   To appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents and employees
as he deems necessary to carry out the purposes of the ordinances; and
   (E)   To delegate any of his functions and powers under the ordinances to
such officers and agents as he designates.
(Ord. 89-001, passed 3-13-89)
§ 151.12 APPROPRIATIONS.
The City Commission may make such appropriations from its revenues as it may
deem necessary for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 89-001, passed 3-13-89)
§ 151.13 SPECIFICATIONS FOR DEMOLITION OF UNSAFE STRUCTURES.
   The specifications for the demolition of building structures and/or other
related property located in the city are hereby established and adopted, and a
copy of the specific terms and conditions relating to the demolition of
structures is available for review during normal business hours at the Union
City Building located at 1843 Mt. Zion Road, Union, Kentucky.
(Ord. 2007-009, passed 11-13-07)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Objectives
   
152.05   Definitions
   
152.06   Lands to which the chapter applies
   
152.07   Basis for establishing the Special Flood Hazard Areas
   
152.08   Establishment of development permit
   
152.09   Compliance
   
152.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.11   Interpretation
   
152.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
152.25   Designation of local administrator
   
152.26   Establishment of development permit
   
152.27   Duties and responsibilities of the local administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.35   General construction standards
   
152.36   Specific standards
   
152.37   Standards for streams without established base flood elevation
(unnumbered “A” Zones) and/or floodways
   
152.38   Standards for shallow flooding zones
   
152.39   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
152.40   Standards for accessory structures in all zones beginning with the
letter “A”
   
152.41   Critical facilities
   
152.42   Appeals and variance procedures
 
   
152.98   Enforcement; violation notice
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the Commonwealth of Kentucky has in KRS 82.082 delegated
to local government units the authority to adopt regulations designed to
promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry.
Therefore, the Union City Commission, hereby adopts the following floodplain
management chapter.
(Ord. 2007-003, passed 4-9-07)
§ 152.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increased flood height and velocity, and by the location
in flood hazard areas of uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to other lands
which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise protected from
flood damage.
(Ord. 2007-003, passed 4-9-07)
§ 152.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private loss due to flooding by
provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood height or velocity;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which accommodate or channel flood waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage, and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
areas.
(Ord. 2007-003, passed 4-9-07)
§ 152.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines; streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard or other flood-prone areas in such
a manner as to minimize future flood blighted areas caused by flooding;
   (G)   Ensure that potential home buyers are on notice that property is in a
Special Flood Hazard Area; and
   (H)   Ensure that those who occupy a Special Flood Hazard Area assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. 2007-003, passed 4-9-07)
§ 152.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA) in which the
principle source of flooding is runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a
combination of both. In A Zones, floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but
waves are usually not a significant threat to structures. Areas of 100-year
flood, base flood elevations and flood hazard factors are not determined.
   A1-30 and AE ZONES. Special Flood Hazard Areas inundated by the 1% annual
chance flood (100-year flood). Base flood elevations (BFEs) are determined.
   A99 ZONE.  That part of the SFHA inundated by the one hundred year (100-
year) flood which is to be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood
protection system under construction. No base flood elevations are determined.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principle structure, the use of which is incidental
to the use of the principle structure.  ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute
a minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation, and should
be designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of accessory
structures are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay
sheds.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use, which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   AH ZONE. An area of one hundred year (100-year) shallow flooding where
depths are between one (1) and three (3) feet (usually shallow ponding). Base
flood elevations are shown.
   AO ZONE.  An area of one hundred year (100-year) shallow flooding where
water depth is between one (1) and three (3) feet (usually sheet flow on
sloping terrain). Flood depths are shown.
   APPEAL.  A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or from the Floodplain
Administrator’s ruling on a request for a variance.
   AR/A1—A30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO, and AR/A ZONES. Special Flood Hazard Areas
(SFHAs) that result from the de-certification of a previously accredited flood
protection system that is in the process of being restored to provide a one
hundred year (100-year) or greater level of flood protection. After restoration
is complete these areas will still experience residual flooding from other
flooding sources.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) where the base flood depths range from one (1) to
three (3) feet, there is no clearly defined channel, the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   B and X ZONES (shaded).  Areas of the two-tenths percent (0.2%) annual
chance (five hundred year (500-year)) flood, areas subject to the one hundred
year (100-year) flood with average depths of less than one (1) foot or with
contributing drainage area less than one (1) square mile, and areas protected
by levees from the base flood.
   BASE FLOOD.  A flood, which has a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any given year (also called the “one hundred year (100-year)
flood”). BASE FLOOD is the term used throughout this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE).  The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, Al-30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A 1 -A30, AR/AH, and
AR/A0 that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that
has a one percent (1%) or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT.  That portion of a structure having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on all four (4) sides.
   BUILDING.  A walled and roofed structure that is principally aboveground;
including a manufactured home, gas or liquid storage tank, or other man-made
facility or infrastructure. See definition for “Structure”.
   C and X (unshaded) ZONES.  Areas determined to be outside the five hundred
year (500-year) floodplain.
   COMMUNITY.  A political entity having the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS).  A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives to those communities in the regular
program to go beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to develop
extra measures for protection from flooding.
   COMMUNITY FLOOD HAZARD AREA (CFHA).  An area that has been determined by the
Floodplain Administrator (or other delegated, designated, or qualified
community official) from available technical studies, historical information,
and other available and reliable sources, which may be subject to periodic
inundation by floodwaters that can adversely affect the public health, safety
and general welfare. Included are areas downstream from dams.
   CRITICAL FACILITY.  Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety or a facility which, if unusable or
unreachable because of flooding, would seriously and adversely affect the
health and safety of the public. Critical facilities include, but are not
limited to: housing likely to contain occupants not sufficiently mobile to
avoid injury or death unaided during a flood; schools, nursing homes,
hospitals, police, fire and emergency response installations, vehicle and
equipment storage facilities, emergency operations centers likely to be called
upon before, during and after a flood, public and private utility facilities
important to maintaining or restoring normal services before, during and after
a flood, and those facilities or installations which produce, use or store
volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic and/or water-reactive materials,
hazardous materials or hazardous waste.
   D ZONE.  An area in which the flood hazard is undetermined.
   DEVELOPMENT.  Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, or permanent storage
of materials or equipment.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE.  A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter walls,
piling, columns (post and piers), shear walls, or breakaway walls. (See
freeboard requirements for residential and non-residential structures.)
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE.  A statement certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor on the FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification that verifies a structure’s elevation and other related
information to verify compliance with this chapter.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The initial phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP, intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at subsidized
rates on all insurable structures in that community before the effective date
of the initial FIRM.
   ENCLOSURE. That portion of a structure below the Base Flood Elevation (BFE)
used solely for parking of vehicles, limited storage, or access to the
structure.
   ENCROACHMENT.  The physical advance or infringement of uses, plant growth,
fill, excavation, structures, permanent structures or development into a
floodplain, which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for
FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to
as “Existing Structures”.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first floodplain management ordinance adopted by the City of Union based
on specific technical base flood elevation data which established the area of
special flood hazards.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD. The flood that has a two-tenths percent (0.2%)
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any year. Areas subject to the five
hundred year (500-year) flood have a moderate to low risk of flooding.
   FLOOD, FLOODING, OR FLOOD WATER.
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters; the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source;
and/or mudslides (such as mudflows). See “Mudslides”
      (2)   The condition resulting from flood-related erosion. See “Flood-
Related Erosion”.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated the areas of flood hazards and the regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM).  A map on which the boundaries of the
flood, mudslide (i.e. mudflow), and flood-related erosion areas having special
hazards have been designated as Zones A, M, and/or E by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated special flood hazard areas and risk premium zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) containing
flood profiles, the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), and/or the Flood Boundary
Floodway Map (FBFM), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by flood waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.  The individual appointed by a NFIP participating
community to administer and enforce the floodplain management ordinances.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing
natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited to emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management ordinances, and
open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances (such as grading and erosion control), and other applications of
police power, which control development in flood-prone areas. This term
describes federal, state and/or local regulations, in any combination thereof,
which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
   FLOOD-PROOFING.  Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOOD-PROOFING CERTIFICATE. A certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect, on a FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification stating that a non-residential structure, together with attendant
utilities and sanitary facilities is watertight to a specified design elevation
with walls that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water and all
structural components are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one (1) foot.
Also referred to as the “regulatory floodway”.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE.  That area of the floodplain on either side of the
regulatory floodway where encroachment may be permitted without additional
hydraulic and/or hydrologic analysis.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood. FREEBOARD must be applied not
just to the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofing level, but also to
the level of protection provided to all components of the structure, such as
building utilities, HVAC components and the like.
   FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION.  As related in §
152.42, means that the variance granted must not cause fraud on or
victimization of the public. In examining this requirement, the Fiscal Court
will consider the fact that every newly constructed structure adds to
government responsibilities and remains a part of the community for fifty (50)
to one hundred (100) years. Structures that are permitted to be constructed
below the base flood elevation are subject during all those years to increased
risk of damage from floods, while future owners of the property and the
community as a whole are subject to all the costs, inconvenience, danger, and
suffering that those increased flood damages may incur. In addition, future
owners may purchase the property, unaware that it is subject to potential flood
damage, and can be insured only at very high flood insurance rates.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE FACILITY.  A facility, structure, or other
development, which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located
or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only a docking or
port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
shipbuilding, ship repair, or seafood processing facilities. The term does not
include long-term storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   GOVERNING BODY. The local governing unit, i.e. county or municipality that
is empowered to adopt and implement ordinances to provide for the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
   HAZARD POTENTIAL. The possible adverse incremental consequences that result
from the release of water or stored contents due to failure of a dam or mis-
operation of a dam or appurtenances. The hazard potential classification of a
dam does not reflect in any way the current condition of a dam and its
appurtenant structures (such as safety, structural integrity, flood routing
capacity).
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE.  The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.  Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC).  Increased cost of compliance coverage
provides for the payment of a claim for the cost to comply with state or
community floodplain management laws or ordinances after a direct physical loss
by flood. When a building covered by a Standard Flood Insurance Policy under
the NFIP sustains a loss and the state or community declares the building to be
substantially or repetitively damaged, ICC will help pay up to thirty thousand
dollars ($30,000.00) for the cost to elevate, flood-proof, demolish, or remove
the building. ICC coverage is available on residential and non-residential
buildings (this category includes public or government buildings, such as
schools, libraries, and municipal buildings) insured under the NFIP.
   KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTE 151.250. Plans for dams, levees and the like to be
approved and permit issued by cabinet – (Environmental and Public Protection
Cabinet).
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person and no city,
county or other political subdivision of the state, including levee districts,
drainage districts, flood control districts or systems, or similar bodies,
shall commence the construction, reconstruction, relocation or improvement of
any dam, embankment, levee, dike, bridge, fill or other obstruction (except
those constructed by the Department of Highways) across or along any stream, or
in the floodway of any stream, unless the plans and specifications for such
work have been submitted by the person or political subdivision responsible for
the construction, reconstruction or improvement and such plans and
specifications have been approved in writing by the cabinet and a permit
issued. However, the cabinet by regulation may exempt those dams, embankments
or other obstructions, which are not of such size or type as to require
approval by the cabinet in the interest of safety or retention of water supply.
      (2)   No person, city, county, or other political subdivision of the
state shall commence the filing of any area with earth, debris, or any other
material, or raise the level of any area in any manner, or place a building,
barrier or obstruction of any sort on any area located adjacent to a river or
stream or in the floodway of the stream so that such filling, raising, or
obstruction will in any way affect the flow of water in the channel or in the
floodway of the stream unless plans and specifications for such work have been
submitted to and approved by the cabinet and a permit issued as required in
division (1) above.
      (3)   Nothing in this section is intended to give the cabinet any
jurisdiction or control over the construction, reconstruction, improvement,
enlargement, maintenance or operation of any drainage district, ditch or system
established for agricultural purposes, or to require approval of the same
except where such obstruction of the stream or floodway is determined by the
cabinet to be a detriment or hindrance to the beneficial use of water resources
in the area, and the person or political subdivision in control thereof so
notified. The Department for Natural Resources through KRS Chapter 350 shall
have exclusive jurisdiction over KRS Chapter 152 concerning the regulation of
dams, levees, embankments, dikes, bridges, fills, or other obstructions across
or along any stream or in the floodway of any stream which structures are
permitted under KRS Chapter 350 for surface coal mining operations.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). Is an official FEMA determination, by letter,
to amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps, and Flood Insurance Studies.  LOMC’s include the following
categories:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA).  A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated SFHA. A LOMA
amends the current effective FIRM and establishes that a specific property is
not located in a SFHA.
      (2)    LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to manmade changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features.
      (3)    LETTER OF MAP REVISION - FILL (LOMR - F). A determination that a
structure or parcel has been elevated by properly placed engineered fill above
the BFE and is, therefore, excluded from the SHFA.
   LEVEE.  A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices. For a
levee system to be recognized, the following criteria must be met:
      (1)   All closure devices or mechanical systems for internal drainage,
whether manual or automatic, must be operated in accordance with an officially
adopted operation manual (a copy of which must be provided to FEMA by the
operator when levee or drainage system recognition is being sought or revised).
      (2)   All operations must be under the jurisdiction of a federal or state
agency, an agency created by federal or state law, or an agency of a community
participating in the NFIP.
   LIMITED STORAGE. An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items which can withstand exposure to the elements and have low
flood damage potential. Such an area must be of flood resistant material, void
of utilities except for essential lighting, and cannot be temperature
controlled.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE.  The elevation of the sidewalk, patio, deck support,
or basement entryway immediately next to the structure and after the completion
of construction. It does not include earth that is emplaced for aesthetic or
landscape reasons around a foundation wall. It does include natural ground or
properly compacted fill that comprises a component of a structure’s foundation
system.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area including
basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, structure access, or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a structure’s lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure, transportable in one (1) or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or
without a permanent foundation when connected or attached to the required
utilities. The term also includes park trailers, travel trailers, and similar
transportable structures placed on a site for one hundred and eighty (180)
consecutive days or longer and intended to be improved property. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle” (see “Recreational
Vehicle”).
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP.  The Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER.  The four-digit number on a flood map, followed by a
letter suffix, assigned by FEMA. The first four (4) digits represent the map
panel. The letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been
revised. (The letter “A” is not used by FEMA, the letter “B” is the first
revision.)
   MARKET VALUE.  The structure value, excluding the land (as agreed between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. Market value can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of structure (actual cash value) or
adjusted assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL (MSL). The average height of the sea for all stages of the
tide. For the purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the MSL is used
as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain as
shown on a community’s FIRM. For purposes of this chapter, the term is
synonymous with either National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) 1929 or North
American Vertical Datum (NAVD) 1988.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of mitigation
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the costs of
disaster response and recovery.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e. mudflow). Describes a condition where there is a river, flow,
or inundation of liquid mud down a hillside, usually as a result of a dual
condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water on
the ground, preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
MUDSLIDE (i.e. mudflow) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide is
in progress, and will be recognized as such by the Floodplain Administrator
only if the mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage
that occurs.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e. mudflow) AREA MANAGEMENT. The operation of and overall
program of corrective and preventative measures for reducing mudslide (i.e.
mudflow) damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans,
mudslide control works, and floodplain management regulations.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e. mudflow) PRONE AREA.  An area with land surfaces and slopes
of unconsolidated material where the history, geology, and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP).  The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used as the vertical datum on the older FIRM’s. Refer to
FIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the city’s floodplain management regulations
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the city’s adopted floodplain management ordinances.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL. Structures that are not designed for human habitation,
including but is not limited to: small business concerns, churches, schools,
farm structures (including grain bins and silos), pool houses, clubhouses,
recreational structures, mercantile structures, agricultural and industrial
structures, warehouses, and hotels or motels with normal room rentals for less
than six (6) months duration.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD). As corrected in 1988, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used on the newer FIRM’s and Digitally Referenced FIRM’s
(DFIRM’s). (Refer to FIRM or DFIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes but is not limited to any dam, wall, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, structure, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, due to its location, its propensity to snare or
collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being carried
downstream.
   ONE HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD) (see “Base Flood”). The flood that
has a one percent (1%) or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. Any flood zone that begins with the letter “A” is subject to the
100-YEAR FLOOD. Over the life of a thirty (30) year loan, there is a twenty-six
percent (26%) chance of experiencing such a flood with the SFHA.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. A community that voluntarily elects to participate
in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management regulations that
are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement, which
started on or before December 31, 1974, or before the effective date of the
initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement that started
on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or after
December 31, 1974, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A means of formally notifying participating NFIP communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations. During periods of probation, each insurance
policy is subject to a fifty dollar ($50.00) surcharge.
   PROGRAM DEFICIENCY. A defect in a community’s floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management standards or of the standards of 44 CFR 60.3,
60.4, 60.5, and/or 60.6.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to safety or health
of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons,
or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of
any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of a community’s participation in the NFIP where
more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and higher
amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one (1)
foot. See “Base Flood”.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. The process by which a community brings a structure or
other development into compliance with state or local floodplain management
regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impact of non-
compliance. Reduced impact may include protecting the structure or other
affected development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement
provisions of the ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations,
or reducing state or federal financing exposure with regard to the structure or
other development.
   REPAIR. The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing structure.
   REPETITIVE LOSS.  Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
or more separate occasions during a ten (10) year period where the value of
damages equals or exceeds an average of fifty percent (50%) of the current
value of the structure, beginning on the date when the damage first occurred,
or, four (4) or more flood losses of one-thousand ($1,000.00) or more over the
life of the structure, or, three (3) or more flood losses over the life of the
structure that are equal to or greater than the current value of the structure.
   RIVERINE.  Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new or renewal flood insurance coverage shall be
provided for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a
duly constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public
body to be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
are intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy
in flood-prone areas.
   SHEET FLOW AREA. See “Area of shallow flooding”.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). That portion of the floodplain subject to
inundation by the base flood and/or flood-related erosion hazards as shown on a
FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AE, Al –A30, AH, AO, or AR.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION (includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development). The date a building permit is issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
placement or other improvement is within one hundred eighty (180) days of the
permit date. The actual start means the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure (including manufactured home) on a site, such as
the pouring of slabs or footings, the installation of piles, construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
the installation on the property of accessory structures, such as garages or
sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground;
including manufactured homes, gas or liquid storage tanks, or other man-made
facilities or infrastructures. See “Building”.
   SUBDIVISION.  Any division, for the purposes of sale, lease, or development,
either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms and
conditions, of any tract or parcel of land into two (2) or more lots or
parcels.
   SUBROGATION. An action brought by FEMA to recover insurance money paid out
where all or part of the damage can be attributed to acts or omissions by a
community or other third party.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.  Means any damage to a building for which the cost of
repairs equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
building prior to the damage occurring. This term includes structures that are
categorized as repetitive loss. For the purposes of this definition, “repair”
is considered to occur when the first repair or reconstruction of any wall,
ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences. The term
does not apply to:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply with
existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a “historic structure” provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Means any combination of reconstruction,
alteration, or improvement to a building, taking place during a one-year period
in which the cumulative percentage of improvement equals or exceeds fifty
percent (50%) of the current market value of the building. For the purposes of
this definition, an improvement occurs when the first alteration of any wall,
ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences, whether or
not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building. The term
does not apply to:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply with
existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a “historic structure” provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”; or
      (3)   Any building that has been damaged from any source or is
categorized as repetitive loss.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS.
Repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of the streets,
utilities, and pads equaling or exceeding fifty percent (50%) of the value of
the streets, utilities, and pads before the repair, reconstruction, or
improvement commenced.
   SUSPENSION.  Removal of a participating community from the NFIP for failure
to enact and/or enforce floodplain management regulations required for
participation in the NFIP. New or renewal flood insurance policies are no
longer available in suspended communities.
   UTILITIES. Includes electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment.
   VARIANCE. Relief from some or all of the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. Failure of a structure or other development to fully comply with
this chapter. A structure or other development without the elevation
certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which water flows at least periodically.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   WATERSHED. All the area within a geographic boundary from which water,
sediments, dissolved materials, and other transportable materials drain or are
carried by water to a common outlet, such as a point on a larger stream, lake,
or underlying aquifer.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X zones shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% probability of being equaled or
exceeded (the five hundred year (500-year) flood) in any year. Unshaded X zones
(C zones on older FIRMS) designate areas where the annual exceedance
probability of flooding is less than two-tenths percent (0.2%).
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or a Flood
Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
(Ord. 2007-003, passed 4-9-07)
§ 152.06 LANDS TO WHICH THE ORDINANCE APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHA), areas
applicable to KRS 151.250 and, as determined by the Floodplain Administrator or
other delegated, designated, or qualified community official as determined by
the City Commission of the city from available technical studies, historical
information, and other available and reliable sources, areas within the
jurisdiction of the City Commission of the city which may be subject to
periodic inundation by floodwaters that can adversely affect the public health,
safety, and general welfare of the citizens of the city.
(Ord. 2007-003, passed 4-9-07)
§ 152.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Boone County,
dated June 4, 2007, with the accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMS),
other supporting data and any subsequent amendments thereto, are hereby adopted
by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations by the city and for
those land areas acquired by the city through annexation. This FIS and
attendant mapping is the minimum area of applicability of this chapter and may
be supplemented by studies for other areas which allow implementation of this
chapter and which are recommended to the City Commission by the Floodplain
Administrator and are enacted by the City Commission pursuant to statutes
governing land use management regulations. The FIS and/or FIRM are permanent
records of the city and are on file and available for review by the public
during regular business hours at the Union City Building, 1843 Mt. Zion Road,
Union, Kentucky 41091.
(Ord. 2007-003, passed 4-9-07)
§ 152.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A Development Permit shall be required in conformance with the
provision of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in the Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHA). See §
152.26 for instructions and explanation.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2007-003, passed 4-9-07)
§ 152.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable state regulations. Violation of the
requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing herein
shall prevent the Fiscal Court from taking such lawful action as is necessary
to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2007-003, passed 4-9-07) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and an
ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 2007-003, passed 4-9-07)
§ 152.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this ordinance, all provisions
shall be:
   (A)   Considered minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2007-003, passed 4-9-07)
§ 152.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the city, any officer or employee,
the Commonwealth of Kentucky, the Federal Insurance Administration, or the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, thereof for any flood damages that result
from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
hereunder.
(Ord. 2007-003, passed 4-9-07)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.25 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Commission appoints the City Administrator Officer, or his/her
designee to administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter
by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its provisions,
and is herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2007-003, passed 4-9-07)
§ 152.26 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or
other development begins within any Special Flood Hazard Area established in §
152.07. Application for a Development Permit shall be made on forms furnished
by Floodplain Administrator prior to any development activities, and may
include, but not be limited to, the following: plans in duplicate drawn to
scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in
question; existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage
facilities; and the location of the foregoing. Endorsement of local
administrator is required before a state floodplain construction permit can be
processed. Specifically, the following information is required.
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   Proposed elevation in relation to Mean Sea Level (MSL) of the
proposed lowest floor (including basement) of all structures in Zone A and
elevation of highest adjacent grade; or
         (b)   Proposed elevation in relation to Mean Sea Level to which any
non-residential structure will be flood-proofed;
         (c)   All appropriate certifications from a registered professional
engineer or architect that the non-residential flood-proofed structure will
meet the flood-proofing criteria in §
152.36(B) and §
152.38(B);
         (d)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      (2)   Construction stage.
   (B)   Upon placement of the lowest floor, and before construction continues,
or flood proofing by whatever construction means, it shall be the duty of the
permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator and to the state a
certification of the elevation of the lowest floor or flood-proofed elevation,
as built, in relation to Mean Sea Level. In AE, A1-30, AH, and A zones where
the community has adopted a regulatory Base Flood Elevation, said certification
shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a registered land
surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same.
   (C)   When flood proofing is utilized for a particular structure, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
certified professional engineer or architect. Any continued work undertaken
prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder’s
risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor and flood
proofing elevation survey data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review
shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further
progressive work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or
failure to make said corrections required hereby, shall be cause to issue a
stop-work order for the project.
(Ord. 2007-003, passed 4-9-07)
§ 152.27 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or staff is hereby appointed,
authorized and directed to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. The Floodplain Administrator is further authorized to render
interpretations of this chapter, which are consistent with its spirit and
purpose by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Permit review. Review all development permits to ensure that:
         (a)   Permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained:
advise permittee that additional federal or state permits may be required, and
if specific federal or state permit requirements are known, require that copies
of such permits be provided and maintained on file with the development permit;
         (c)   Flood damages will be reduced in the best possible manner;
         (d)   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of affected watercourses. For purposes of this chapter, “adversely
affects” means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than one (1) foot at any point.
      (2)   Review and use of any other base flood data.  When base flood
elevation data has not been provided in accordance with §
152.07, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal or
state agency, or other source, in order to administer §§
152.35 through
152.42. Any such information shall be submitted to the Fiscal Court for
adoption.
      (3)   Notification of other agencies.
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities, the Kentucky Division of Water, and
any other federal and/or state agencies with statutory or regulatory authority
prior to any alteration or relocation of the watercourse; and
         (b)   Submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Insurance
Administration, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA); and
         (c)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse is maintained.
      (4)   Documentation of floodplain development.  Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed the following:
         (a)   Certification required by §
152.36(A)(1) (lowest floor elevations) as shown on a completed and certified
Elevation Certificate. Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to
Mean Sea Level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
152.26(A)(2);
         (b)   Certification required by §
152.36(B) (elevation or flood-proofing of nonresidential structures) as shown
on a completed and certified flood-proofing certificate. Verify and record the
actual elevation (in relation to Mean Sea Level) to which the new or
substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed, in accordance with §
152.26(A)(2);
         (c)   Certification required by §
152.36(C) (elevated structures);
         (d)   Certification of elevation required by § 152.369(A) (subdivision
standards);
         (e)   Certification required by §
152.36(B)(5) (floodway encroachments);
         (f)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
not diminished;
         (g)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
         (h)   Remedial action.  Take action to remedy violations of this
chapter as specified in §
152.98 and §
152.99.
      (5)   Map determinations. Make interpretations where needed, as to the
exact location of the boundaries of the Special Flood Hazard Areas, for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions.
         (a)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. The
person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
152.42(C)(2);
         (b)   When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been
provided in accordance with §
152.07, then the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonable
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
152.35 through
152.42;
         (c)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
Floodplain Administrator shall obtain certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect, in accordance with §
152.36(B) a floodproofing certificate;
         (d)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall
be maintained in the office of the Floodplain Administrator and shall be open
for public inspection.
      (6)   Right of entry.
         (a)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the Administrator has reasonable cause
to believe that there exists in any structure or upon any premises any
condition or ordinance violation which makes such building, structure or
premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the Administrator may enter such
building, structure or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or
perform any duty imposed upon the Administrator by this chapter.
         (b)   If such structure or premises are occupied, he/she shall first
present proper credentials and request entry. If such building, structure, or
premises are unoccupied, he shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the
owner or other persons having charge or control of such request entry.
         (c)   If entry is refused, the Administrator shall have recourse to
every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
         (d)   When the Administrator shall have first obtained a proper
inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner or
occupant or any other persons having charge, care or control of any building,
structure, or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made as
herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the Administrator for the
purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this chapter.
      (7)   Stop work orders. Upon notice from the Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in writing and
shall be given to the owner of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the
person doing the work, and shall state the conditions under which work may be
resumed.
      (8)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Administrator may revoke a permit or approval, issued under
the provisions of this chapter, in case there has been any false statement or
misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or plans on which
the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Administrator may revoke a permit upon determination by the
Administrator that the construction, erection, alteration, repair, moving,
demolition, installation, or replacement of the structure for which the permit
was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the provisions of
this chapter.
      (9)   Liability. Any officer, employee, or member of the Floodplain
Administrator’s staff, charged with the enforcement of this chapter, acting for
the applicable governing authority in the discharge of his or her duties, shall
not thereby render himself or herself personally liable, and is hereby relieved
from all personal liability, for any damage that may accrue to persons or
property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his
or her duties. Any suit brought against any officer, employee, or member
because of such act performed by him or her in the enforcement of any provision
of this chapter shall be defended by the Department of Law until the final
termination of the proceedings.
      (10)   Expiration of floodplain construction permit. A floodplain
construction permit, and all provisions contained therein, shall expire if the
holder of a floodplain construction permit has not commenced construction
within one hundred eighty (180) calendar days from the date of its issuance by
the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2007-003, passed 4-9-07)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.35 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   In all Special Flood Hazard Areas the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air condition equipment,
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   (F)   Within Zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
   (G)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (H)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (I)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall
meet the requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
   (K)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this ordinance,
shall be undertaken only if said non-conformity is not furthered, extended, or
replaced.
(Ord. 2007-003, passed 4-9-07) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.36 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all Special Flood Hazard Areas where base flood elevation data have been
provided, as set forth in §
152.07, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Residential construction.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvement of any residential
structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, mechanical equipment, and ductwork elevated no lower than one (1)
foot above the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be
used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movements of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with standards of
division (C).
         (a)   In an AO zone, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a
height equal to or exceeding the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM, or
elevated at least two (2) feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth
number is specified.
         (b)   In an A zone, where no technical data has been produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, elevated one (1) foot above the base flood
elevation, as determined by this community. The Floodplain Administrator will
determine the method by which base flood elevations are determined. Methods
include but are not limited to detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analyses, use
of existing data available from other sources, use of historical data, best
supportable and reasonable judgment in the event no data can be produced. Title
401 KAR (Kentucky Administrative Regulations) Chapter 4, Regulation 060,
Section 5(5)a, states as a part of the technical requirements for a state
floodplain permit: The applicant shall provide cross sections for determining
floodway Boundaries (and thereby Base Flood Elevations) at any proposed
construction site where FEMA maps are not available. All cross sections shall
be referenced to mean sea level and shall have vertical error tolerances of no
more than + one-half (0.5) foot. Cross sections elevations shall be taken at
those points which represent significant breaks in slope and at points where
hydraulic characteristics of the base floodplain change. Each cross section
shall extend across the entire base floodplain and shall be in the number and
at the locations specified by the cabinet. If necessary to ensure that
significant flood damage will not occur, the cabinet may require additional
cross sections or specific site elevations which extend beyond those needed for
making routine regulatory floodway boundary calculations.
         (c)   In all other zones, elevated one (1) foot above the base flood
elevation.
      (2)   Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest
floor including basement shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor, and verified by the community building inspection
department to be properly elevated. Such certification and verification shall
be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Non-residential construction.  New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure
(including manufactured homes used for non-residential purposes) shall be
elevated to conform with division (A) or together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities:
      (1)   Be flood-proofed below an elevation one (1) foot above the level of
the base flood elevation so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
      (3)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, mechanical equipment,
and ductwork, elevated no lower than one (1) foot above the level of the base
flood elevation;
      (4)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such certification shall be
provided to the official as set forth in §
152.26(A)(1)(c).
      (5)   Manufactured homes shall meet the standards in division (D).
      (6)   All new construction and substantial improvement with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements) that are usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, and which are
subject to flooding, shall be constructed of flood resistant materials below an
elevation one (1) foot above the base flood elevation, and, shall be designed
to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by
allowing for the entry and exit of floodwater. Opening sizes (FEMA Technical
Bulletin 1-93) for meeting this requirement must meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
         (a)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect;
or
         (b)   Have a minimum of two (2) openings with a total net area of not
less than one (1) square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one (1) foot above
grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwater.
   (C)   Elevated structures. New construction or substantial improvements of
elevated structures on columns, posts, or pilings (e.g.) that include fully
enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the base
flood elevation shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
      (1)   Opening sizes for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of
not less than one (1) square inch for every square foot of enclosed area
subject to flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one (1) foot
above foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or higher
than the exterior foundation grade); and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
      (2)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator); and
      (3)   The interior portion of such enclosed areas shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
   (D)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   All new or substantially improved manufactured homes placed on
sites located within A, Al-30, AO, AH, and AE on the community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must meet all the requirements for new construction,
including elevation and anchoring. Locations include:
         (a)   On individual lots or parcels;
         (b)   In expansions to existing manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
         (c)   In new manufactured home parks or subdivisions; or
         (d)   In substantially improved manufactured home parks or
subdivisions; or
         (e)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; and
         (f)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site
upon which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as the result
of a flood.
      (2)   All manufactured homes must be:
         (a)   Elevated on a permanent foundation;
         (b)   Have its lowest floor elevated no lower than one (1) foot above
the level of the base flood elevation; and
         (c)   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system
to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (3)   Except manufactured homes that have incurred substantial damage as
a result of a flood, all manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in
an existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated so that the
manufactured home is securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement, so that either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower
than one (1) foot above the level of the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less
than thirty-six (36) inches in height above the highest adjacent grade.
      (4)   (a)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites located within A,
A1-30, AO, AH, and AE on the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must
either:
            1.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days;
            2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
            3.   Meet the permit requirements for new construction of this
chapter, including anchoring and elevation requirements for “manufactured
homes”.
         (b)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is
licensed and insured in accordance with the State of Kentucky motor vehicle
regulations, is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only
by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently
attached additions.
      (5)   Floodways.  
         (a)   Located within areas of special flood hazard established in §
152.07, are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential, the following provisions
shall apply: Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other developments unless certification (with
supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in the base
flood elevation levels during occurrence of base flood discharge.
         (b)   If this division is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements and other proposed new development shall comply with
all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of §§
152.35 through
152.42.
      (6)   Standards for utilities.
         (a)   All new and replacement water supply and sanitary sewage systems
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate:
            1.   Infiltration of flood waters into the systems; and
            2.   Discharge from the systems into flood waters.
         (b)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid
impairment to them, or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 2007-003, passed 4-9-07) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.37 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION
(UNNUMBERED “A” ZONES) AND/OR FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the Special Flood Hazard Areas established in §
152.07, where streams exist but where no base flood data has been provided or
where base flood data has been provided without floodways, the following
provisions apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures shall be
located within Special Flood Hazard Areas, unless certification by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one (1) foot at any point within the community. The engineering
certification should be supported by technical data that conforms to standard
hydraulic engineering principles.
   (B)   New construction or substantial improvements of structures shall be
elevated or flood proofed to elevations established in accordance with §
152.07.
(Ord. 2007-003, passed 4-9-07) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.38 STANDARDS FOR SHALLOW FLOODING ZONES.
   Located within the Special Flood Hazard Areas established in §
152.07, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have flood
hazards associated with base flood depths of one (1) to three (3) feet, where a
clearly defined channel does not exist and the water path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate; therefore, the following provisions apply:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall: Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified
on the Flood Insurance Rate Map above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO,
if no flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two (2) feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map, above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO, if no
flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two (2) feet above the highest adjacent grade.
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely flood- proofed either to the base flood elevation or above or, in
Zone AO, to or above the specified flood depth plus a minimum of one (1) foot
so that any space below that level is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of
buoyancy. Certification is required as stated in §
152.36(B).
(Ord. 2007-003, passed 4-9-07) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.39 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard
area and the elevation of the base flood and be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage;
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards; and
   (D)   In areas where base flood elevation and floodway data is not available
(Zone A or unmapped streams), base flood elevation and floodway data for
subdivision proposals and other proposed development (including manufactured
home parks and subdivisions) greater than fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres,
whichever is the lesser, shall be provided.
   (E)   All subdivision plans will include the elevation of proposed structure
(s) and lowest adjacent grade. If the site is filled above the base flood
elevation, the lowest floor and lowest adjacent grade elevations shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2007-003, passed 4-9-07) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.40 STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES IN ALL ZONES BEGINNING WITH THE
LETTER “A”.
   For all accessory structures in Special Flood Hazard Areas designated “A”
the following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   Structure must be non-habitable;
   (B)   Must be anchored to resist floatation forces;
   (C)   Will require flood openings/vents no more than one (1) foot above
grade, total openings are to be one (1) square inch per one (1) square foot of
floor area, at least two (2) openings required on opposite walls;
   (D)   Built of flood-resistant materials below a level one (1) foot above
the base flood elevation;
   (E)   Must elevate utilities above the base flood elevation;
   (F)   Can only be used for storage or parking; and
   (G)   Cannot be modified for a different use after permitting.
(Ord. 2007-003, passed 4-9-07) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.41 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA (one hundred year (100-year)
floodplain). Construction of new critical facilities shall not be permissible
within the floodway; however, they may be permissible within the SFHA if no
feasible alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within
the SFHA shall have the lowest floor elevated one (1) foot or more above the
level of the base flood elevation at the site. Flood-proofing and sealing
measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by
or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of
the base flood elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities to the
extent possible.
(Ord. 2007-003, passed 4-9-07)
§ 152.42 APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Nature of variances.
      (1)   The variance criteria set forth in this section are based on the
general principle of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of property
and are not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for a parcel of
property with physical characteristics so unusual that complying with the
requirements of this chapter would create an exceptional hardship to the
applicant or the surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be
unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique
characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the structure, its
inhabitants, or the property owners.
      (2)   It is the duty of the Union City Commission to help protect its
citizens from flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the
cost of insuring a structure built below flood level is so serious that
variances from the flood elevation or from other requirements in the flood
ordinance are quite rare. The long-term goal of preventing and reducing flood
loss and damage can only be met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore,
the variance guidelines provided in this section are more detailed and contain
multiple provisions that must be met before a variance can be properly granted.
The criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives
other than a variance are more appropriate.
   (B)   Designation of variance and Appeal Board. The City Commission shall
establish an Appeal Board consisting of the current members of the City
Commission for the City of Union, Kentucky.
   (C)   Duties of variance and Appeal Board.
      (1)   The Appeal Board shall hear and decide requests for variances from
the requirements of this section and appeals of decisions or determinations
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the local District Court, as provided in
Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (D)   Appeals/variance procedures. In passing upon such applications, the
Appeal Board shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors,
all standards specified in other sections of this chapter, and the:
      (1)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
      (2)   Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
      (4)   Importance to the community of the services provided by the
proposed facility;
      (5)   Necessity that the facility be located on a waterfront, in the case
of functionally dependent facility;
      (6)   Availability of alternative locations which are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
      (10)   Expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
      (11)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, water systems, streets, and bridges.
   (E)   Conditions for variances. Upon consideration of the factors listed
above and the purposes of this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway
if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the “minimum necessary” to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. “Minimum necessary” means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation
from the requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to
an elevation requirement, this means the Fiscal Court need not grant permission
for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the
applicant proposes, but only to that elevation which the Fiscal Court believes
will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the local ordinance.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the “minimum necessary” to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. In the instance of an historical structure, a determination shall be
made that the variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief and not
destroy the historic character and design of the structure.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant (as defined in this chapter); and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood height, additional threats to public safety, cause
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance (as defined in §
152.05 under “public safety and nuisance”), cause fraud or victimization of the
public (as defined in §
152.05) or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (5)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
      (6)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) and the Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) upon request.
      (7)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement, and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use provided that the provisions of divisions (C)
through (D)(5) are satisfied and that the structure or other development is
protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and does
not result in additional threats to public safety and does not create a public
nuisance.
   (F)   Variance notification. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted
shall be given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as twenty- five dollars ($25.00) for one hundred dollars
($100.00) of insurance coverage, and;
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the Union City Clerk and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such
variances issued in the community’s biennial report submission to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
   (G)   Historic structures. Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of “historic structures” (see definition) upon determination
that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s
continued designation as an historic structure and the variance is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (H)   No impact certification within the floodway. Variances shall not be
issued within any mapped or designated floodway if any increase in flood levels
during the base flood discharge would result.
(Ord. 2007-003, passed 4-9-07)
§ 152.98 ENFORCEMENT; VIOLATION NOTICE
   (A)   Civil offense.  If, at any time, development occurs which is not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying
with the terms and conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any
approved modifications, such development shall constitute a civil offense.
   (B)   Notice of violation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator shall issue
a notice to the person responsible for the violation and/or the property owner,
stating the facts of the offense or violation, the section of this chapter and/
or of the permit violated, when it occurred, how the violation is to be
remedied to bring the development into conformity with this chapter or with the
approved permit, and within what period of time the remedy is to occur, which
period of time shall be reasonable and shall be determined by the nature of the
violation and whether or not it creates a nuisance or hazard. The remedy may
include an order to stop work on the development. The notice shall also state
that a citation may be forthcoming in the event that the requested remedies and
corrective actions are not taken, which citation will request a civil monetary
fine and shall state the maximum fine which could be imposed. See below.
   (C)   Notice of citation.  If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator may issue a
citation to the offender stating the violation, prior notices of violation
issued, how the violation is to be remedied to bring the development into
conformity with this chapter or with the approved permit, and within what
period of time the remedy is to occur, and what penalty or penalties are
recommended. When a citation is issued, the person to whom the citation is
issued shall respond to the citation within seven (7) days of the date the
citation is issued by either carrying out the remedies and corrections set
forth in the citation, paying the civil fine set forth in the citation or
requesting a hearing before the governing body. If the person to whom the
citation is issued does not respond to the citation within seven (7) days, that
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the
determination that a violation occurred shall be considered final.
(Ord. 2007-003, passed 4-9-07)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with granting of a variance or special exceptions, shall
constitute a misdemeanor civil offense. Any person who violates this chapter or
fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined no less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) or imprisoned for not more
than thirty (30) days, or both, and in addition, shall pay all costs and
expenses involved in the case. Each day such violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the
Floodplain Administrator from taking such other lawful action as is necessary
to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2007-003, passed 4-9-07)
CHAPTER 153: PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
Section
   
153.01   Adoption of subdivision regulations by reference
   
153.02   Adoption of transportation plan by reference
   
153.03   Adoption of goals and objectives for the comprehensive plan by
reference
Editor's note:
The Boone County Fiscal Court, City of Florence, City of Walton, and the City
of Union comprise the total membership of the legislative bodies operating as
the Boone County Planning Commission, a joint planning unit under KRS Ch. 100.
Local ordinances pertaining to this commission are not included in this code
but are available for public inspection during normal hours at the offices of
the city.
§ 153.01 ADOPTION OF SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The most recent edition of the Boone County Subdivision Regulations,
and all amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated
into this code of ordinances as if fully set forth herein.
   (B)   Copies of the subdivision regulations are available for public
inspection during normal business hours in the offices of the city.
(Ord. 80-011, passed - -80; Am. Ord. 81-003, passed 2-8-81; Am. Ord. 81-005,
passed 5-7-81; Am. Ord. 96-010, passed 11-4-96)
§ 153.02 ADOPTION OF TRANSPORTATION PLAN BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The 1996 edition of the Boone County Transportation Plan, and all
amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated into this
code of ordinances as if fully set forth herein.
   (B)   Copies of the transportation plan are available for public inspection
during normal business hours in the offices of the city.
(Ord. 96-003, passed 5-13-96)
§ 153.03 ADOPTION OF GOALS AND OBJECTIVES FOR THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN BY
REFERENCE.
   The Statement of Goals and Objectives for the Our Boone County - Plan 2045
as prepared and presented by the Boone County Planning Commission is hereby
adopted by reference.
(Ord. 2000-001, passed 5-8-00; Am. Ord. 2024-13, passed 8-5-24)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
   
154.01   Adoption by reference
 
   
154.99      Penalty
Editor's note:
   The Boone County Fiscal Court, City of Florence, City of Walton, and the
City of Union comprise the total membership of the legislative bodies operating
as the Boone County Planning Commission, a joint planning unit under KRS Ch.
100. Local ordinances pertaining to this commission are not included in this
code but are available for public inspection during normal hours at the offices
of the city.
§ 154.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The most recent edition of the Boone County Zoning Regulations and
Zoning Map, and all amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated into this code of ordinances as if fully set forth herein.
   (B)   Copies of the zoning regulations are available for public inspection
during normal hours at the offices of the city.
(Ord. 80-009, passed 7-3-80; Am. Ord. 81-006, passed 6-4-81; Am. Ord. 81-007,
passed 6-4-81; Am. Ord. 81-008, passed 7-2-81; Am. Ord. 89-005, passed 5-8-89;
Am. Ord. 93-007, passed 11-8-93; Am. Ord. 93-008, passed - -93; Am. Ord. 98-
010, passed 11-9-98; Am. Ord. 99-010, passed 1-10-00; Am. Ord. 99-011, passed
1-10-00; Am. Ord. 99-012, passed 1-10-00; Am. Ord. 2000-007, passed 8-28-00;
Am. Ord. 2002-004, passed 8-12-02; Am. Ord. 2008-001, passed 4-14-08; Am. Ord.
2008-009, passed 10-13-08; Am. Ord. 2012-001, passed 4-10-12; Am. Ord. 2014-
001, passed 3-3-14; Am. Ord. 2015-04, passed 2-2-15; Am. Ord. 2015-21, passed
1-4-16; Am. Ord. 2017-04, passed 4-3-17; Am. Ord. 2017-22, passed 2-5-18; Am.
Ord. 2021-17, passed 10-4-21; Am. Ord. 2023-03, passed 1-18-23; Am. Ord. 2024-
06, passed 5-20-24; Am. Ord. 2024-18, passed 12-16-24; Am. Ord. 2024-19, passed
12-16- 24)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of a provision contained in the city’s zoning
regulations is hereby classified as a civil offense, pursuant to KRS 65.8808
and §§
39.01 through
39.16 of this Code of Ordinances, and § 154 of the zoning regulations; and such
classification is intended, and shall be construed, to provide an additional or
supplemental means of obtaining compliance with these provisions, and nothing
contained herein shall prohibit the enforcement of these provisions by any
other means authorized by law.
   (B)   Civil Fines for violations of the zoning regulations shall be as set
forth in §
39.13 of this Code of Ordinances and amendments thereto and KRS 65.8808.
   (C)   Each abovementioned provision of the city’s zoning regulations
violated shall be considered a separate fineable offense. If two (2) or more
provisions of the city’s zoning regulations are violated, the fines shall be
cumulative and may be enforced under the same citation. Each day a violation
exists shall be considered a separate offense without issuance of a separate
citation.
(Ord. 2018-05, passed 6-4-18)
CHAPTER 155: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
   
155.01   International Property Maintenance Code adopted
   
155.02   Amendments to this Code
§ 155.01 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED.
   The city hereby adopts the International Property Maintenance Code, 2012
Edition, and subsequent amendments and future editions thereto, subject to the
changes, deletions, and amendments contained in §
155.02 (hereinafter the “Property Maintenance Code” or “this Code”). The
Property Maintenance Code shall apply to the maintenance of any and all
buildings and structures in the city. The Property Maintenance Code, as
promulgated by the International Code Council, Inc., is hereby incorporated by
reference, subject to the changes, deletions, and amendments contained in §
155.02. A copy of the Property Maintenance Code shall be available for
inspection and copying in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2013-001, passed 7-9-13)
§ 155.02 AMENDMENTS TO THIS CODE.
   The following sections and subsections of this Code are hereby revised as
stated below.
   Section 101.1. Title. “City of Union, Kentucky”.
   Section 102.3. Application of other codes. This subsection is replaced as
follows: “Repairs, additions, or alterations to a structure, or changes of
occupancy, shall be done in accordance with procedures and provisions of the
Kentucky Building Code, Kentucky Residential Code, Kentucky Plumbing Code,
Kentucky Mechanical Code, Kentucky Standards of Safety, National Fire Code, and
the National Electric Code, as well as any other codes adopted by the
Commonwealth of Kentucky now and in the future. Nothing in this Code shall be
construed to cancel, modify, or set aside any provision of the Zoning Ordinance
of the City of Union, Kentucky. ”
   Section 103.1 General. This subsection is replaced as follows: “The Boone
County Code Enforcement Department shall be responsible for the enforcement of
the Property Maintenance Code. The Code Enforcement Department Director, if
any, the City Administrative Officer/City Administrator, and the Code
Enforcement Officer(s) shall be known as ‘code officials’ or ‘Code Enforcement
Officer’ under this Code."
   Section 103.2. Appointment. This subsection is not adopted.
   Section 103.3. Deputies. This subsection is not adopted.
   Section 103.5. Fees. Insert “See Schedule of City of Union Fees attached to
this Code.”
   Section 106. Violations. This heading is replaced with the following
heading: “Section 106. Violations of city property maintenance code.”
   Section 106.2. Notice of violation. The heading of this subsection and the
subsection itself are replaced as follows: “Section 106.2. Violations of the
property maintenance code; notice of violation; citations; appeals; penalties;
and liens.
   (A) Enforcement proceedings shall only be initiated by a Code Enforcement
Officer of the city, or other authorized City of Union employee (collectively
herein ‘Code Enforcement Officer’).
   (B) Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action to remedy a violation of its ordinances or codes when there is reason to
believe that the violation presents a serious threat to the public health,
safety and welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of
the violation will be irreparable or irreversible.
   (C) Except as provided in division (B), when a Code Enforcement Officer,
based upon personal observation or investigation, has reasonable cause to
believe that a person has committed a violation of a city ordinance or a code
provision, the Code Enforcement Officer may issue a warning in the form of a
door-hanger notice. If this is a repeat violation of the same or similar
ordinance or code provision within one year of a previous warning or notice of
violation, the Code Enforcement Officer shall immediately proceed to division
(D) hereof. The notices required by this section shall be in plain language and
shall:
   (1) Be in writing;
   (2) Be in duplicate;
   (3) Contain the date, time and place (description of real estate sufficient
for its identification) the violation was observed;
   (4) State the ordinance number and reason(s) why the notice is being issued;
   (5) If the notice is given in the form of a door-hanger notice, it shall
include a correction order requiring correction of any violations within seven
days from posting of the notice, and shall provide a telephone number and
address where the recipient can contact the Code Enforcement Officer to request
a reasonable extension of time for abatement of the violations, which shall not
be unreasonably withheld. Only national holidays and Sundays shall not be
included in the calculation of seven days. A duplicate copy of a door hanger
notice shall be provided to the City Clerk’s office.
   (D) If the property owner where a door-hanger notice is issued fails or
refuses to remedy the offense or violation within the time specified, or as
extended, or this is a repeat of the same offense or violation within a one-
year period, the Code Enforcement Officer shall issue a notice of violation.
The notice shall be sent to the property owner by certified first-class mail at
the last known address of the person, and a copy of the notice of violation
shall be delivered to the City Clerk and to the Code Enforcement Board. A
notice of violation required by this section shall be in plain language and
shall:
   (1) Be in writing;
   (2) Contain the date and time of issuance;
   (3) Contain the name and address of the person to whom the notice is issued;
   (4) Contain the date and time the violation was committed;
   (5) Contain the dates of previous notifications regarding the current
ordinance or code violation (e.g., door-hanger notice, notice of violation or
citation);
   (6) State the facts constituting the violations;
   (7) State the ordinance number of the ordinance or code violated;
   (8) Include a correction order requiring correction of all violations within
seven days from the mailing of the certified mail notice; and shall provide a
telephone number and address where the recipient can contact the Code
Enforcement Officer to request a reasonable extension of time for abatement of
the violations, which shall not be unreasonably withheld. Only national
holidays and Sundays shall not be included in the calculation of seven days.
   (9) State the name of the Code Enforcement Officer;
   (10) State the fees and maximum civil fine that may be imposed for the
violation if the property owner does not correct the violation within seven
days or contest the notice;
   (11) State the procedure for the property owner to follow to provide
notification that the violation has been abated.
   (E) If the property owner to whom a notice of violation is issued fails or
refuses to remedy the violation within the time specified, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall issue a citation to the offending property owner by certified
first-class mail at the last known address of the property owner. The citation
required by this section shall be in plain language and shall:
   (1) Be in writing;
   (2) Contain the date and time of issuance;
   (3) Contain the name and address of the person to whom the citation is
issued;
   (4) Contain the date and time the violation was committed or discovered;
   (5) Contain the dates and times of any previous notification about this
violation;
   (6) State the facts constituting the violations;
   (7) State the ordinance number and text of the ordinance or code violated;
   (8) State the name of the Code Enforcement Officer;
   (9) State the procedure for the property owner to follow to provide
notification the violation(s) has been abated.
   (10) State the fees and maximum civil fine that will be imposed if the
property owner fails to contest the citation.
   (11) State the procedure the property owner shall follow to pay the civil
fine, or shall follow to contest the citation before the Code Enforcement
Board. If a property owner fails to respond to the citation within seven
business days, the person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing
to contest the citation and the determination that a violation was committed
shall be considered final. In this event, the Code Enforcement Board shall
enter a final order determining that the violation was committed and imposing
the civil fine set forth in the citation. A copy of the final order shall be
served on the property owner found in violation of the city code or ordinance.
   (12) Contain a statement that if the property owner fails to pay the civil
fine set forth in the citation or contest the citation within the time allowed,
the person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the
Code Enforcement Board to contest the citation, and the determination that a
violation was committed shall be final.
   (F) After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall deliver a duplicate copy thereof to the Code Enforcement Board
and to the City Clerk’s Office.
   (G) When a citation is issued, the property owner to whom the citation is
issued shall respond to the citation within seven days of the date the citation
was issued. Only national holidays and Sundays shall not be included in the
calculation of seven days. If the property owner elects to pay the fine, the
property owner shall provide a copy of the citation and payment in full by cash
or check to the City Clerk, 1843 Mt. Zion Road, Union, KY 41091, within the
required seven days.
   If the property owner contests the citation, the property owner shall
provide written request for a hearing and payment of any hearing fees to the
Union City Clerk, 1843 Mt. Zion Road, Union, KY 41091, along with a copy of the
citation, within the required seven days. The written request shall include the
property owner's name, mailing address of the primary residence of the property
owner, and telephone number.
   (H) If the alleged violator does not contest the citation within the time
prescribed, the Code Enforcement Board shall enter a final order determining
that the violation was committed and shall impose the appropriate civil fine
set forth for such violation. A copy of the final order shall be served on the
person found in violation of a city code or ordinance.
   HEARING; NOTICE AND FINAL ORDER.
   (A) When a hearing has been requested, the Code Enforcement Board shall
schedule a hearing. The hearing shall be conducted at the next regularly
prescribed time for the Board to meet or the subsequent meeting date. The
person requesting the hearing shall pay a $30 hearing fee prior to submitting
the hearing request.
   (B) The person requesting a hearing shall be notified of the hearing time
and date via first-class mail or via hand delivery at the address provided in
the request for the hearing.
   (C) Failure to appear at the hearing may result in a default against the
person requesting the hearing.
   (D) All testimony shall be taken under oath. Formal rules of evidence do not
apply. The Board shall receive only relevant and material evidence. All
evidence received shall be give such weight as the Board deems it is entitled
after consideration of any objections that may be made. The Board shall receive
such evidence that a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to support a
conclusion.
   (E) The hearing shall be recorded. A request for a copy of the recording of
the hearing must be made in writing. The requesting party must pay a reasonable
fee for the recording as determined by the City Clerk's Office. The Board has
no obligation to preserve recordings beyond 30 days of the hearing date.
   (F) The Code Enforcement Board shall, based on the evidence, determine
whether a violation has occurred. If it is determined that no violation has
occurred, an order dismissing the citation shall be entered. If it determines
that a violation was committed, an order shall be issued upholding the citation
imposing the appropriate fine and/or remedy for the violation.
   (G) Every final order of the Code Enforcement Board shall be reduced to
writing and include the date the order was issued. A copy shall be furnished to
the person named in the citation. If the person named in the citation is not
present when the final order is issued, the order shall be delivered to the
violator at the address indicated in the request for a hearing.
   APPEALS.
   (A) An appeal from any final order of the Code Enforcement Board may be made
to the Boone County District Court within 30 days of the date the order is
issued. The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint and a copy
of the Code Enforcement Board’s order in the same manner as any civil action
under the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B) If no appeal from a final order of the Code Enforcement Board is filed
within the time period set forth in division (A) above, the Code Enforcement
Board’s order shall be deemed final.
   CIVIL FINE SCHEDULE/ PENALTIES.
   Violations of ordinances that are enforced by the city Code Enforcement
Officer and Board shall be subject to the following schedule of civil fines:
   (A) If a citation for a violation of an ordinance is not contested by the
person charged with the violation, the penalties set forth in this subsection
and in accordance with the citation issued shall apply.
   (B) Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this code
shall be subject to a civil fine of not less than $100 per day per violation,
but not more than $500 per day per violation, or the cost to the city to abate
the violation, or both. Each date that a violation of this code continues after
due notice has been served in accordance with the terms of this code shall be
deemed a separate offense to a maximum of $10,000 per citation.
   (C) As an additional alternative remedy to the above penalty, any violator
who violates any provision of the city nuisance code and has been previously
issued two or more citations of violations of the nuisance code relating to the
same property within a 12-month period may be assessed additional civil
penalties of $500 per day per violation to a maximum of $20,000 per citation.
   (D) The city shall possess a lien on property for all fines, penalties,
charges, attorney's fees, and other reasonable costs associated with enforcing
this code and placing of a lien on a parcel of real property pursuant to this
code. The lien shall be superior to and have priority over all other liens
filed, except state, county, school board, and city taxes.
   (E) Each section of a code or ordinance violated shall be considered a
separate finable offense. If two or more sections of a code or ordinance are
violated, the fines shall be cumulative and be enforced under the same
citation.
   (F) The Code Enforcement Board is hereby authorized and directed to
determine within the by-laws and rules of procedure a civil penalty schedule
within the civil penalty ranges shown above.
   LIENS, FINES, CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A) The city shall, pursuant to KRS 65.8835 and/or other authority, possess
a lien on property owned by the person found, by a final, non-appealable order
of the Code Enforcement Board, or by a final judgment of a court of law if the
Board’s decision has been appealed, to have committed a violation, for all
fines assessed for the violation and for all charges and fees incurred by the
city in connection with the enforcement.
   (B) The lien shall be recorded in the office of the Boone County Clerk. The
lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall
bear interest at the legal rate until paid.
   (C) The lien shall take precedence over all other subsequent liens, except
state, county, school board and city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial
proceedings.
   CIVIL REMEDIES.
   In addition to the imposition of a lien, the city may institute other civil
action and seek an injunction or monetary damages to enforce its ordinances and
collect the debts arising from the fines imposed by the Code Enforcement
Board.”
   Section 106.3. Prosecution of violation. This section is amended as follows:
“Any person failing to comply with a notice of violation or order served in
accordance with Section 106.2 shall be deemed to have violated a City of Union
Ordinance, and the violation shall be deemed a strict liability offense. If the
notice of violation is not complied with, the code official may institute the
appropriate proceeding at law, in equity or administratively, to restrain,
correct or abate such violation of the provisions of this code or of the order
or direction made pursuant thereto. Any action taken by the authority having
jurisdiction on such premises shall be charged against the real estate upon
which the structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real estate.”
   Section 106.4. Violation penalties. This section is not adopted.
   Section 107.1. Notice to person responsible. This section is not adopted.
   Section 107.2. Form. This section is not adopted.
   Section 107.3. Method of service. This section is not adopted.
   Section 111. Means of appeal. This entire section is not adopted.
(Ord. 2013-001, passed 7-9-13)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS AND DEANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISES AND CONTRACTS
      
III.   MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS
      
IV.   AD VALOREM TAX RATES
      
V.   REPEALED ORDINANCES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS AND DEANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
             Annexation of a parcel of land located east of and adjoining the present city
20    9-6-73 limits and being that portion of the Warren Utz Tract of 48 acres more or less
             beginning at the southeast city limits line of the city with the east line of
             said Warren Utz Tract
             Annexation of a parcel of land located on the southeast side of the city
21    9-6-73 limits and beginning at the intersection of the southeast city limits with the
             centerline of Mt. Zion County Road
             Annexation of a parcel of land located on the southeast side of the city
76-   12-2-  limits and beginning at the most southerly corner of the original square mile
008   76     boundary of the city, said point being on the southeast side of U.S. Highway
             42 opposite the property of Ronald Crume, et al
             Annexation of a parcel of land located northeast of the city limits and
77-   10-6-  beginning at the most northerly corner of the city on U.S. Highway 42, which
007   77     said corner is S 35 E. 30 feet from the southeast corner of the original Jones
             Service Station Building
             Annexation of two parcels of land, the first located on the east, south and
             west city limits and compromising parts of groups numbers 2038, 2046, 2056,
80-   5-1-80 and 2057 as shown on the official group system map, and the second beginning
008          at the most easterly corner of the present city limits in the centerline of
             the Union-Mt. Zion Rd., said point being the intersection of the east line of
             a three acre tract now or formerly owned by A. Gambill with said centerline
             Annexation of two parcels of land, the first located on the east, south and
80-   10-21- west city limits and compromising parts of groups numbers 2038, 2046, 2056,
012   80     and 2057 as shown on the official group system map, and the second beginning
             at the intersection of the present line of the city with the north right-of-
             way line of Kentucky Highway 536 (The Union-Big Bone Road)
84-   11-23- Deannexation of a parcel of land consisting of 3.9 square miles beginning at a
008   84     point in Hathaway Rd. in the north right-of-way line thereof and where the
             boundary of the city prior to April 15, 1980 intersects
             Annexation of a parcel of land lying on the southerly side of Mt. Zion Rd.
90-14 9-9-90 commonly referred to as the Hemsteade Subdivision Tract beginning at a point
             in the center of Mt. Zion Rd., said point being on the existing city limits
             and a corner with Claude Robinson
             Annexation of a parcel of land beginning at a point in the existing city
91-   10-14- limits and in the west right-of-way of U.S. 42; thence with the west right-of-
009   91     way U.S. 42 in a southerly direction 350 ± feet or sufficient to reach the
             west right-of-way of Tadpole Lane
92-   1-13-  Annexation of a parcel of land located about 1,000 feet north of Kentucky
002   92     Highway 536 at a point approximately 0.8 miles east of U.S. Highway 42
92-   4-13-  Annexation of a parcel of land adjacent to the present boundaries of the city
005   92     and being in the area commonly referred to as the Drees Hempsteade Development
             Tract, formerly the Martin Tract, containing 63.4779 acres more or less
95-   2-13-  Annexation of a parcel of land lying along the westerly side of U.S. 42 and
001   95     along the northerly side of Rice Pike beginning at a point on the westerly
             right-of-way line of U.S. 42 and being the grantor's northeasterly corner
             Annexation of a parcel of land located in the area commonly referred to as
95-   4-17-  Lassing Green Development Tract, formerly a part of the Patsy Slayback Tract,
006   95     containing 74.8973 acres more or less, said territory lying south of the
             present corporate city limits
95-   10-16- Annexation of a parcel of land into the Sanitation District No. 1 of Campbell
013   95     and Kenton Counties
97-   6-2-97 Annexation and deannexation of parcels of land that are an even swap with the
003          city of Florence
98-   9-12-  Proposing to annex a parcel of land lying near the southerly side of Mt. Zion
006   98     Road and near the westerly side of Hempsteade Drive, containing 28.211 acres,
             more or less
98-   11-9-  Proposing to annex a parcel of land lying near the southerly side of Mt. Zion
008   98     Road, containing 11.1920 acres, more or less
99-   5-18-  Annexing a parcel of land lying near the southerly side of Mt. Zion Road and
005   99     near the westerly side of Hempsteade Drive, containing 28.211 acres, more or
             less
99-   9-12-  Annexing a parcel of land lying near the southerly side of Mt. Zion Road,
006   98     containing 11.1920 acres, more or less
04-   11-8-  Annexing certain unincorporated territory adjacent to the present boundaries
007   04     of the city, lying on the south side of Mt. Zion Road, said tract being more
             commonly known as the Hampshire Subdivision Tract
             Annexing the following tracts: Tract One (10350 U.S. 42, Union); Tract Two,
             located in Boone County, Kentucky, lying on the southerly side of Frogtown
2005- 8-8-05 Road being a part of Lot No. 2 and 4 of Albert Acres Subdivision; Tract Three,
005          located in Boone County, Kentucky and being all of Lot No. 3 as shown on the
             plat of Albert Acres Subdivision; Tract Four, being all of Lot No. 5 as shown
             on the plat of Albert Acres Subdivision.
2007- 2-13-  Annexation of two parcels of land, the first being on the south side of Mt.
001   07     Zion Road and 1 mile east of U.S. Route 42.
2009- 11-2-  Annexation of a 20.309 acres with Arlinghaus, as sole owners of the subject
011   09     real property.
2010- 9-7-10 Annexation of a 31.258 acre and a 12 acre tract as owned by the County of
004          Boone and Boone County Kentucky Public Properties Corporation.
             Annexing approximately a 12-acre tract located at the Southwest side of U.S.
             Highway 42; annexing 31.25 acre parcel with the Boone County Public Properties
2015- 4-6-15 Corporation; annexing property located at an existing iron pin within the
07           westerly right-of- way of Old Union Road, said point being 3.75 feet measured
             perpendicular from the roadway centerline, also the common corner of two
             parcels owned by The Glencairn Corporation.
2017- 10-11- Annexing 1.0 acres of land owned by Don Goderwis Jr., being parcel number
15    17     051.00-00-035.02.
2018-        Annexing approximately 87.247 acres of land on the north side of Frogtown
09    9-4-18 Road, approximately 950 feet east of U.S. Highway 42, owned by the Drees
             Company.
2021- 4-5-21 Annexing 151.706 acres of land, owned Andrew James Kahmann and Linda Jean
07           Venneman.
2021- 4-5-21 Annexing approximately 7.533 acres of land, owned by Timothy Kahmann and
08           Christie Kahmann.
2022- 10-3-  Annexing 81.293 acres of land, less 0.35 acres, located on Hathaway Road,
19    22     owned by Arlinghaus I, LLC.
            
TABLE II: FRANCHISES AND CONTRACTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
             Granting to the Union Light, Heat and Power Company a 20-year franchise to
5     3-2-64 place electric transmission and distribution facilities in the public streets
             and places of the city
16    2-4-71 Granting to Cincinnati Bell Inc., a 20-year franchise to operate and maintain a
             telephone, telegraph and general communications system
96-   2-12-  Approving the renewal and amendment of the franchise agreement for cable
001   96     television service of TCI TKR of Northern Kentucky, d/b/a TKR Cable of Northern
             Kentucky
96-   8-12-  Accepting the bid of Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc., to provide waste collection
004   96     service in the city, commencing July 1, 1996 through June 30, 1997, and
             authorizing the Mayor to enter into such contract
97-   7-14-  Accepting the bid of Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc., to provide waste collection
005   97     service in the city, commencing July 1, 1997 through June 30, 1998, and
             authorizing the Mayor to enter into such contract
98-   7-13-  Accepting the bid of Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc., to provide waste collection
004   98     service in the city, commencing July 1, 1998 through June 30, 1999, and
             authorizing the Mayor to enter into such contract
Order        Repealing Ordinance Nos. 98-012 and 98-013, approving settlement agreement and
99-   4-1-99 mutual release with City of Florence, Kentucky
001
99-   4-12-  Approving the joint and cooperative program for self- insurance, insurance and
002   99     the investment of public funds as set forth in the interlocal agreement to
             establish the KMRMA
99-   6-14-  Accepting the bid of CSI of Northern Kentucky, Inc. to provide waste collection
007   99     service in the city commencing July 1, 1999 through June 30, 2000 and
             authorizing the Mayor to enter into such contract
2000- 7-10-  Accepting the bid of Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc. to provide waste collection
005   00     service in the city commencing July 1, 2000 through June 30, 2001 and
             authorizing the Mayor to enter into such contract
2001-        Accepting the bid of Rumpke of Kentucky Waste Collection Service to provide
004   7-9-01 waste collection services in the city commencing July 1, 2001 through June 30,
             2002 and authorizing the Mayor to enter into such contract
Order 8-13-  Authorizing an agreement with the Transportation Cabinet for the maintenance of
01-   01     the medians on US 42
003
02-   6-10-  Accepting the bid of CSI Waste Service to provide waste collection services in
002   02     the city commencing July 1, 2002 through June 30, 2003 and authorizes the Mayor
             to enter into such contract
03-   8-11-  Accepting the bid of Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc. to provide waste collection
005   03     services in the city commencing July 1, 2003 through June 30, 2004 and
             authorizes the Mayor to enter into such contract
03-   8-11-  Accepting the bid of Paul Michels & Sons to provide street repair services in
006   03     the city on Union Hill and other streets within the city limits and authorizing
             the Mayor to enter into such agreement
2005- 7-11-  Accepting the bid of Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc. and granting a franchise to
008   05     provide waste collection services for a period of two years commencing July 1,
             2005
Res.  7-10-
2006- 06     Amending the contract with Rumpke for waste collection
012
Res.  5-14-
2007- 07     Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with Spillman Lawn Care
009
             Granting a franchise agreement for cable service to Cincinnati Bell Extended
2008- 12-8-  Territories LLC, and including provisions for insurance, reports and records,
013   08     consumer practices, consumer protection measures, construction and
             construction-related practices, and operation procedures and health, safety and
             welfare measures
Res.  4-13-  Accepting the bid from A&A Lawncare & Landscaping, Inc., for providing
2009- 09     landscape/grass mowing services
005
Res.         Accepting the bid from Bluegrass Paving, Inc., to provide repairs and
2009- 6-8-09 improvements to Hempstead Drive
008
Res.
2009- 6-8-09 Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract for City Attorney
009
2009-        Accepting the bid of Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc., and granting a franchise to
007   8-3-09 provide waste collection services for a period of two years commencing August
             1, 2009
2010- 9-7-10 Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract for City Attorney
007
Res.         Extending waste collection franchise with Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc., for an
2011- 5-2-11 additional two-year period
008
Res.  12-3-  Accepting bid from A&A Lawncare & Landscaping to provide mowing, trimming,
2012- 12     landscaping and general maintenance
006
2013- 6-3-13 Approving the renewal of the franchise agreement with Insight Kentucky Partners
002          II, LP, to operate a cable communication system
2013- 8-13-  Approving the grant of a non-exclusive franchise to Duke Energy for the
003   13     transmission of either or both natural gas and electricity for ten years
2013- 8-13-  Extending waste collection franchise with Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc., for an
008   13     additional two-year period
Res.  10-7-  Authorizing agreement with Infrastructure & Development Engineering, Inc., for
2013- 13     professional engineering services
015
Res.  10-7-  Extending the contract of Perfection Landscaping & Design, Inc., for snow
2013- 13     removal services
017
Order 10-7-  Accepting and approving bid of Duke Energy for a non-exclusive franchise for
2013- 13     the transmission and distribution of natural gas and electricity for ten years
002
Order 10-7-  Terminating March 25, 1997, interlocal agreement with the Fiscal Court of Boone
2013- 13     County for the inspection and construction of streets
003
Order 10-7-  Terminating March 25, 1997, interlocal agreement with the Fiscal Court of Boone
2013- 13     County for snow and ice removal
004
Res.         Authorizing contract with Greg D. Voss, Esq., to serve as City Attorney as an
2014- 2-3-14 independent contractor
001
Res.
2014- 3-3-14 Authorizing contract with Everette “Junior” Partin for grave digging services
002
Res.         Authorizing contract with Len Riegler Blacktop, Inc., for street repairs for
2014- 7-7-14 Lakepointe Court and Indian Hill Drive
007
Res.         Authorizing contract with Paul Michels & Sons, Inc., for street repairs for 19
2014- 7-7-14 streets
008
Res.         Authorizing contract with Paul Michels & Sons, Inc., for sealing joints and
2014- 7-7-14 cracks for 17 streets
009
Res.  10-6-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute agreement for engineering services between the
2014- 14     city and Barry Burke, PE PLS
012
Res.  10-6-  Accepting the bid from Perfection Landscaping & Design, Inc. to enter into a
2014- 14     contract for snow/ice removal services
013
Res.         Authorizing the Mayor to execute the contract between the city and Everette
2015- 3-2-15 “Junior” Partin, Jr.
03
Res.         Accepting the bid from A&A Lawncare & Landscaping, Inc. for providing mowing,
2015- 3-2-15 trimming, landscaping and general maintenance.
04
Res.         Authorizing the Mayor to execute the contract between the city and Barry J.
2015- 3-2-15 Burke, PS PLS
05
Res.         Authorizing the Mayor to execute the lease agreement between the city and
2015- 6-1-15 Albert R. Barlow and Linda L. Barlow
06
Res.         Authorizing the Mayor to execute the contract between Paul Michels Construction
2015- 6-1-15 Company and the city for 2015 street repairs
7
Res.         Authorizing the Mayor to execute the contract between Len Riegler Blacktop,
2015- 6-1-15 Inc. and the city for 2015 street repairs
8
Res.         Accepting the bid of Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc. for providing solid waste and
2015- 6-1-15 curbside recycling collection and disposal services in the city commencing July
11           1, 2015 through June 30, 2017 and authorizing the Mayor to enter into a
             contract with Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc. in support of said bid
Res.  11-2-
2015- 15     Authorizing the Mayor to execute the contract between the city and Amy Lutes
12
Res.         Authorizing the Mayor to execute the contract between the city and Everette
2016- 4-4-16 “Junior” Partin, Jr.
01
Res.         Accepting the contract of Maddox & Associates to provide accounting and
2016- 2-1-16 auditing services to the city and authorizing the Mayor to execute the contract
02
Res.         Authorizing the Mayor to execute the contract between Paul Michels Construction
2016- 6-6-16 Company and the city for 2016 street repairs
03
Res.         Adopting the Joinder Agreement with the authority for participation in the 457
2016- 9-6-16 Plan and/or 401(k) Plan for the benefit of its eligible employees
04
Order        Extending the contract to Perfection Landscaping & Design, Inc. for snow
2016- 5-2-16 removal services
05
Res.         Authorizing the Mayor to execute the agreement for participation in private
2016- 9-6-16 sewer lateral repair program
05
Res.         Authorizing the Mayor to execute the Master Interlocal Corporation Agreement
2016- 9-6-16 for infrastructure projects, programs or policies
06
Order        Accepting the contract of Burcor Fencing, LLC for fence removal and fence
2016- 9-6-16 replacement/inst allation services within the city and authorizing the Mayor to
07           execute the contract
Res.  11-7-  Authorizing the Mayor for the city to execute the lease agreement between the
2016- 16     city and Wayne Schuerman
07
Res.  11-7-  Authorizing the Mayor for the city to execute the loss control service
2016- 16     agreement between the city and Roeding Group Companies
08
Res.         Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Everette Partin, Jr., for
2017- 2-6-17 grave digging services
02
Res.         Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with A&A Lawncare & Landscaping,
2017- 2-6-17 Inc., for mowing, trimming, landscaping, and general maintenance services
03
Order        Authorizing the Mayor to extend a contract with Perfection Landscaping &
2017- 2-6-17 Design, Inc., for snow removal services
09
Order        Authorizing the Mayor to extend a contract with Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc., for
2017- 4-3-17 waste collection services
10
Order        Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Bluegrass Paving, Inc., for
2017- 6-8-17 street repairs
21
Order        Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Len Riegler Blacktop, Inc.,
2017- 6-8-17 for street repairs
22
Order        Extending the contract with Perfection Landscaping & Design, Inc., for snow
2017- 7-5-17 removal services
24
Res.         Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Len Riegler Blacktop, Inc.,
2017- 9-5-17 for street repairs
08
Res.         Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Van Gorder, Walker & Co.,
2017- 9-5-17 Inc., for accounting and auditing services
09
Res.         Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Everette Partin, Jr., for
2018- 3-5-18 grave digging services
01
Res.         Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Michels Paving Co., Inc., for
2018- 6-4-18 street repairs
04
Res.         Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Len Riegler Blacktop, Inc.,
2018- 6-4-18 for street repairs
05
Res.         Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Straight Edge Construction,
2018- 6-4-18 LLC, for street repairs
06
Order        Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Van Gorder, Walker & Co.,
2018- 9-4-18 Inc., for auditing services
18
Order        Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Groundsystems, Inc. for snow
2018- - -    and ice removal services
20
Order        Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with A&A Lawncare and Landscaping,
2018- - -    Inc., for mowing, trimming, landscaping, and general maintenance services
21
Res.
2019- 3-4-19 Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Everette “Junior” Partin, Jr.
01
Res.         Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Complete Structural Partners,
2019- 3-4-19 LLC for remodeling services for the city administration building
02
Order        Accepting the contract of Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc. to provide solid waste and
2019- 5-6-19 curbside recycling collection and disposal services and authorizing the Mayor
10           to execute the contract
Order 5-15-
2019- 19     Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with David Plummer
11
Res.  7-10-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Paul Michels Construction
2019- 19     Company for the 2019 concrete curb and gutter replacements
03
Res.  7-10-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Len Riegler Blacktop, Inc. for
2019- 19     the 2019 street repairs
04
Res.  7-10-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with TMS Construction, Inc. for the
2019- 19     2019 edge/side drain system along Bayswater Drive
05
Res.         Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Geostabilization,
2019- 8-5-19 International for the west abutment stabilization near 2070 Clarkston Lane
07           Bridge over Fowler’s Creek
Res.         Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Geostabilization,
2019- 8-5-19 International for the center pier stabilization at Churchill Drive Bridge over
08           Fowler’s Creek
Res.  3-26-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Palmer Paving to provide
2020- 20     repavement and installing a new section of the city building
02
Res.  3-26-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with SECO Electric Co., Inc. to
2020- 20     install pole lighting for the parking lot of the city building
03
Res.  3-26-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Palmer Paving to provide
2020- 20     paving and removal of the island at Whispering Trails Drive
04
Res.         Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Len Riegler Blacktop, Inc. for
2020- 6-1-20 bituminous asphalt repairs for various streets
07
Res.         Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Humphrey Concrete, LLC for
2020- 6-1-20 concrete curb and gutter and sidewalk replacement for various streets
08
Res.         Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with TMS Construction, Inc. for
2020- 6-1-20 edge/side drain system construction over various streets
09
Order        Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Everett “Junior” Partin to
2020- 7-6-20 provide grave digging services to the city
08
Order        Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Baker Business & Tax
2020- 8-3-20 Solutions, PLLC
10
Order        Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Duke Energy for LED lighting
2020- 8-3-20 installation services within the city
11
Order 9-21-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Operation Honor Corp, a
2020- 20     Kentucky non-profit corporation
14
Order 11- -  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with A & A Lawncare and
2020- 20     Landscaping, Inc. to provide mowing, trimming, landscaping and general
17           maintenance for the city
Order        Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Everett “Junior” Partin to
2021- 6-7-21 provide grave digging services to the city
10A
Order        Accepting the contract extension of Baker Business & Tax Solutions, PLLC to the
2021- 6-7-21 city
11
Order        Accepting the contract extension of Barry J. Burke, PE PLS to provide
2021- 6-7-21 professional engineering services to the city
12
Order        Authorizing the Mayor to execute the contract between the city and David
2021- 6-7-21 Plummer
13
Order        Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Riegler Blacktop, Inc. for
2021- 6-7-21 full resurfacing, base repairs and joint sealing
15
Order        Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Riegler Blacktop, Inc. for
2021- 6-7-21 edge/side drains and SGCB within the city
16
Order        Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with TMS Construction, Inc. for
2021- 6-7-21 concrete curb and gutter excluding sidewalks
17
Res.         Authorizing the Mayor to approve and sign the contract with Grammas and
2022- 3-7-22 Brookfield Ltd Partners
02
Order        Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Riegler Blacktop, Inc. for
2022- 4-4-22 asphalt resurfacings, base repairs and joint sealing
06
Order        Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Riegler Blacktop, Inc. for
2022- 4-4-22 edge/side drains
07
Order        Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Tru-Line Striping, LLC for
2022- 5-2-22 striping of speed humps, speed tables and crosswalks
09
Order        Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with TMS Construction, Inc. for
2022- 5-2-22 curb, gutter and sidewalks/ADA ramps
10
Order 6-20-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a revised contract with Everett “Junior”
2022- 22     Partin to provide grave digging services to the city
13
Order 6-20-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Baker Business & Tax
2022- 22     Solutions, PLLC
15
Order 6-20-  Accepting the contract of Barry J. Burke, PE PLS to provide professional
2022- 22     engineering services to the city
16
Order        Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Govos for the occupational
2022- - -    license and tax filing services for the city
20
Order 11-7-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Simply Creative Lawn and
2022- 22     Landscape, LLC to provide mowing, trimming, landscaping and general maintenance
23           for the city
Order 11-7-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute the contract between Groundsystems, Inc. and
2022- 22     the city for 2023-2024 snow and ice removal
24
Order 11-7-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with MKSK for the preparation of
2022- 22     a master plan for the city’s twety-two (22)-acre parcel located at the
25           intersection of US 42 and Brilliance Avenue
Ord.         Establishing a non exclusive franchise for the use of the public streets,
2023- 5-15-  alleys, and other public grounds of the city for the transmission and
09    23     distribution of either or both natural gas and electricity to Duke Energy
             Kentucky, Inc.
Ord.         Establishing a non exclusive franchise for the use of the public streets,
2024- 4-1-24 alleys, and other public grounds of the city for the transmission and
04           distribution of electricity to Owen Electric Cooperative, Inc.
Ord.  6-17-  Accepting the bid of Owen Electric Cooperative, Inc. for the non exclusive
2024- 24     franchise for the use of public streets, alleys and other public grounds for
11           the transmission and distribution of electricity
            
 
TABLE III: MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.       Date Passed Description
                           Establishing an Emergency Medical Services Advisory
96-012         - -96       Council and affiliating the council with similar
                           councils established by Boone, Kenton, and Campbell
                           counties
                           Adopting and approving Municipal and Bond Program
2007-016       11-13-07    Agreement between the City of Union and the
                           Transportation Cabinet and accepting all streets
                           referred to therein
                           Approving and authorizing an assistance agreement
Res. 2009-010  9-9-09      between the city and the Kentucky Infrastructure
                           Authority
Order. 2016-11 12-5-16     Approving and adopting the Boone County Emergency
                           Operations Plan
                           Authorizing the Mayor to execute a maintenance and
Order 2017-08  2-6-17      traffic agreement with the Kentucky Transportation
                           Cabinet
                           Authorizing the Mayor to execute and enter into an
2017-05        6-5-17      interlocal agreement with Walton, Kentucky,
                           regarding a joint code enforcement board
                           Accepting the terms of the Trust Participation
                           agreement for the Kentucky League of Cities
Order 2019-13  7-10-19     Insurance services General Insurance Trust and
                           authorizing the Mayor to execute the trust
                           participation agreement
Order 2019-14  9-3-19      Officially approving and adopting the Boone County
                           Emergency Operations Plan
                           Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement
Res. 2021-09   7-7-21      between the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet and the
                           city
Order 2022-01  2-7-22      Officially approving and adopting the Boone County
                           Emergency Operations Plan
Res. 2022-03   3-7-22      Authorizing the Mayor to sign the municipal advisory
                           services agreement
Order 2022-22  11-7-22     Officially approving and adopting the Boone County
                           Emergency Operations Plan
                           
TABLE IV: AD VALOREM TAX RATES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
97-   10-6-  For FY 1997-1998:
007   97     (A)   Real property at $2.27 per $1,000.00 of assessed valuation
             (B)   Tangible property at $2.52 per $1,000.00 of assessed valuation
98-   9-15-  For FY 1998-1999:
005   98     (A)   Real property at $2.27 per $1,000.00     assessed valuation
             (B)   Tangible property at $2.52 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
99-   10-4-  For FY 1999-2000:
009   99     (A)   Real property at $2.27 per $1,000.00     assessed valuation
             (B)   Tangible property at $2.52 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
2000- 10-16- For FY 2000-2001:
008   00     (A)   Real property at $0.222 per $100.00     assessed valuation
             (B)   Tangible property at $0.252 per $100.00 assessed valuation
2001- 10-8-  For FY 2001-2002:
005   01     (A)   Real property at $2.22 per $1,000.00     assessed valuation
             (B)   Tangible property at $2.52 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
2002- 10-14- For FY 2002-2003:
006   02     (A)   Real property at $2.22 per $1,000.00     assessed valuation
             (B)   Tangible property at $2.52 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
2003- 10-13- For FY 2003-2004:
007   2003   (A)   Real property at $2.13 per $1,000.00     assessed valuation
             (B)   Tangible property at $2.52 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
2004- 10-11- For FY 2004-2005:
005   04     (A)   Real property at $2.12 per $1,000 assessed valuation
             (B)   Tangible personal property at $2.26 per $1,000 assessed valuation
2005- 10-10- For FY 2005-2006:
011   05     (A)   Real property at $2.17 per $1,000 assessed valuation
             (B)   Tangible personal property at $1.92 per $1,000 assessed valuation
2006- 10-9-  For FY 2006-2007:
008   06     (A)   Real property at $2.21 per $1,000 assessed valuation
             (B)   Tangible personal property at $1.99 per $1,000 assessed valuation
2007- 10-8-  For FY 2007-2008:
010   07
           (A)   Real property at $2.17 per $1,000 assessed valuation
           (B)   Tangible personal property at $1.88 per $1,000 assessed valuation
2008- 10-13- For FY 2008-2009:
010   08
           (A)   Real property at $2.17 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
           (B)   Tangible personal property at $1.88 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
2009-        Fixing date of payment, discount payment, delinquency and interest
004   6-8-09 charges; fixing the purpose therefor and setting forth the procedure for
             collection of taxes
2009- 9-9-09 For FY 2009:
009
           (A)   Real property at $2.17 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
           (B)   Tangible personal property at $1.88 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
2010- 9-4-10 For FY 2010:
006
           (A)   Real property at $2.16 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
           (B)   Tangible personal property at $1.88 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
2011- 10-3-  For FY 2011-2012:
007   11
           (A)   Real property at $2.16 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
           (B)   Tangible personal property at $1.88 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
2012- 9-4-12 For FY 2012-2013:
008
           (A)   Real property at $2.16 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
           (B)   Tangible personal property at $1.88 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
2013- 9-3-13 For FY 2013-2014:
011
           (A)   Real property at $2.16 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
           (B)   Tangible personal property at $1.88 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
2014- 9-9-14 For FY 2014-2015:
014
           (A)   Real property at $2.16 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
           (B)   Tangible personal property at $1.88 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
2016- 10-3-  For FY 2016-2017:
06    16
           (A)   Real property at $2.16 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
           (B)   Tangible personal property at $1.88 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
2015- 10-5-  For FY 2015-2016:
18    15
           (A)   Real property at $2.16 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
           (B)   Tangible personal property at $1.88 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
2017- 9-5-17 For 2017:
11
           (A)   Real property at $2.16 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
           (B)   Tangible personal property at $1.88 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
2018- 9-4-18 For 2018:
10
           (A)   Real property at $2.16 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
           (B)   Tangible personal property at $1.88 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
2019- 8-5-19 For 2019:
10
           (A)   Real property at $2.16 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
           (B)   Tangible personal property at $1.88 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
2020- 9-21-  For 2020:
03    20
           (A)   Real property at $2.16 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
           (B)   Tangible personal property at $1.88 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
2021- 9-8-21 For 2021:
16
           (A)   Real property at $2.06 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
           (B)   Tangible personal property $1.59 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
2022- 9-12-  For 2022:
17    22
           (A)   Real property at $2.05 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
           (B)   Tangible personal property $1.82 per $1,000.00 assessed valuation
2023- 9-18-  For 2023:
11    23     (A)   Real property at $0.204 per $100.00 assessed valuation
             (B)   Tangible personal property $0.212 per $100.00 assessed valuation
2024- 9-16-  For 2024:
14    24     (A)   Real property at $0.204 per $100.00 assessed valuation
             (B)   Tangible personal property $0.200 per $100.00 assessed valuation
            
 
TABLE V: REPEALED ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Description Reason/Ord. No.
Ord. No.     Date     Description                              Reason/Ord. No.
                      Intending to annex certain parcels of
98-012       - -      land along Longbranch Road, Fowler Creek Order No. 99-001
                      Road, Camp Ernst Road and Hathaway Road
                      Intending to annex certain parcels of
98-013       - -      land along Fowler Creek Road, South Fork Order No. 99-001
                      of Gunpowder Creek, Kroth Lane and
                      Longbranch Road
85-012       9-9-85   Governing the parking of motor vehicles  2000-009
2000-009     12-11-00 Governing the parking of motor vehicles  2013-009
--           1997     § 91.33, Removal of ice and snow        2014-002
2006-001     2-13-06  Creating office of City Administrative   2014-007
                      Officer
1996-008     9-16-96  Creating office of City Engineer         2014-010
2014-019     12-1-14  Nuisances                                2016-07
Res. 2015-02 1-5-15   Transfer or withdrawal of funds          2017-02
2015-06      4-6-15   Nuisances                                2015-06
2015-15      8-3-15   Nuisances                                2015-15
98-007       10-12-98 § 91.07, Sidewalk repair policy         2021-12
- -          - -      Ch. 110, General licensing provisions    2023-06
2010-003     11-1-10  Ch. 111, Peddlers, itinerant merchants,  2023-12
                      and solicitors
2001-001     2-12-01  Ch. 95, Cemetery regulations             2023-13
2014-13      8-12-14  § 95.03, City Sexton duties and         2023-13
                      renumeration
2024-10      6-17-24  Prohibiting cannabis operations          2024-17
2021-12      6-7-21   Ch. 91A, Sidewalk maintenance            2024-20
2022-04      3-21-22  §§ 91A.01, 91A.07, Sidewalk maintenance2024-20
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Ordinances
References to Resolutions
References to Municipal Orders
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section             Code Section
Section 43, Ky. Const.  32.47
Section 228, Ky. Const. 31.01,
                        31.36
Section 246, Ky. Const. 31.03
6.050                   32.47
6.955 - 6.975           33.04
Ch. 13A                 93.02
Ch. 13B                 93.06
15.409                  34.16
18A.225                 113.03
Ch. 31                  34.16
39.409                  70.40
41.240(4)               33.05 ,
                        33.30
42.450 - 42.495         33.04
Ch. 45A                 34.16
45A.345 - 45A.460       33.45
Ch. 56               34.16
Ch. 61                  32.21
61.169                  34.16
61.805 - 61.820         34A.10
61.805(1)               34A.01
61.805(2)               34A.01
61.805(3)               34A.01
61.805(4)               34A.01
61.805(5)               34A.01
61.810                  34A.05
61.815                  34A.06
61.820 - 61.823         34A.09
61.820                  34A.07
61.823                  34A.08
61.823(2) to (4)        91.15
61.823(4)               34A.09
61.826                  34A.09
61.840                  34A.09
61.846 - 61.848         34A.10
61.870                  34.01
61.870 - 61.882         31.36
61.870 - 61.884         34.17
61.872(4)               34.06
61.872(5)               34.07
61.872(6)               34.08
61.874(1)               34.12
61.874(2)               34.12
61.874(3)               34.12,
                        34.13
61.874(4)               34.13
61.874(5)               34.14
61.874(6)               34.15
61.878                  34.01,
                        34.16
61.878(1)               34.16
61.880                  34.09
61.880(1)               34.16
61.884                  34.11
62.020                  31.01
Ch. 65                  31.02
65.003                  Ch. 37,
                        37.03
65.120                  Ch. 72
65.210 et seq.          37.07
65.7041 et seq.         110A.05
65.7056                 110A.05
65.8801 et seq.         92.07
                        39.01,
                        39.02,
65.8801 - 65.8839       39.13,
                        73.28,
                        92.01,
                        92.02
65.8801 - 65.8840       39.01,
                        92.07
65.8808                 154.99
65.8808(2)(b)           111A.99
65.8808(2)(c)           73.30,
                        111A.99
65.8808(3)(b)           73.30
65.8815(5)              39.05
65.8825                 39.01
65.8835                 155.02
66.660                  91.06
67.083                  70.40
78.510 - 78.990         38.03
82.082                  152.01
Ch. 83A                 31.20
83A.010(3)              10.02
83A.010(6)              10.02
83A.010(7)              10.02
83A.010(8)              10.02
83A.010(9)              10.02
83A.010(10)             10.02
83A.010(11)             10.02,
                        10.18
83A.030(2)              30.02
83A.040(1)              31.21
83A.040(2)              31.21
83A.040(2)(b)           31.21
83A.040(2)(d)           31.21
83A.040(3)              31.21
83A.040(4)              32.01,
                        32.02
83A.040(5)              32.02
83A.040(6)              31.21,
                        32.02
83A.040(7)              31.21,
                        32.02
83A.040(8)              31.21,
                        32.02
83A.040(9)              31.04
83A.045(2)(b)           31.20
83A.050                 31.20
83A.060(1)              32.35
83A.060(2)              32.36
83A.060(3)              32.37
83A.060(4)              32.38
83A.060(5)              32.39
83A.060(6)              32.22
83A.060(7)              32.38
83A.060(8)              32.40,
                        32.41
83A.060(9)              32.42
83A.060(10)             32.43
83A.060(11)             32.44
83A.060(12)             32.45
83A.060(13)             32.45
83A.060(14)             32.46
83A.060(15)             32.47
83A.065                 10.02
83A.065(2)              71.99(c)
83A.070                 31.03,
                        31.40
83A.075                 31.03
83A.080(1)              31.35
83A.080(2)              31.04,
                        31.35
83A.080(3)              31.20
83A.080(4)              31.20
83A.085                 31.36
83A.090                 10.18,
                        31.40
83A.130                 31.21
83A.140                 31.21
83A.140(1)              30.01
83A.140(2)              30.02
83A.140(3)              32.03
83A.140(4)              32.20
83A.140(5)              32.03
83A.140(7)              32.21
83A.140(8)              32.03
83A.165                 31.20
83A.170                 31.20
83A.175                 31.20,
                        32.02
85.140                  91.01
91A.010                 33.01
91A.010(8)              10.02
91A.020                 33.02
91A.030                 33.03
91A.040                 33.04
91A.050                 33.04
91A.060                 33.05
91A.080(2)              113.02
91A.080(3)              113.03
91A.080(8)              113.04,
                        113.05
91A.080(9)              113.04
91A.080(10)             113.03
91A.200                 33.11
91A.210                 33.10
91A.220                 33.11
91A.230                 33.12
91A.240                 33.13
91A.250                 33.14
91A.260                 33.15
91A.270                 33.16
91A.280                 33.17
91A.290                 33.18
                        Chs.
Ch. 100                 153,
                        154
100.277(4)              91B.04
Ch. 107                 33.11
Chs. 116 - 121          31.20
Ch. 118                 31.20
118.105                 37.01
118.115                 37.01
118.325                 37.01
118.760                 37.01
131.010(6)              113.04
134.420                 35.40
134.800                 35.20
134.810                 35.20
Ch. 136                 35.40
151.250                 152.05,
                        152.06
Ch. 152                 152.05
Ch. 154                 34.16
174.100                 91.15
174.100(1)              91.16
174.100(2)              91.17
174.100(3)              91.18
174.100(4)              91.19
174.100(5)              91.20
177.910                 92.14
177.950                 92.14
178.290                 91.08
186.010                 92.07
186.020                 92.07
186.050                 73.44
186.560                 71.25
Ch. 189                 73.43
189.010                 73.25,
                        92.07
189.020                 71.27
189.080                 73.40
189.190                 71.28
189.221                 71.28
189.222                 71.28
189.285                 73.02,
                        73.25
189.287                 73.01
189.290                 71.25
189.330(8)              71.02
189.338                 70.15
189.580                 71.15
189.635(9)(b)1.a. to e. 34.01
189.700                 71.40
189.820                 73.41
189.930                 71.26
189.993(8)              71.99
190.010(8)              92.14
Ch. 198B                150.17
198B.070                150.17
198B.990(1)             150.99
224.20-720              73.44
224.905 - 244.970       94.06
226.010                 112.01
226.020                 112.02
226.030                 112.07
226.040                 112.03
226.050                 112.04
226.060                 112.08
226.070                 112.03
226.080                 112.05
226.090                 112.06
226.100                 112.08
226.990(1)              112.99
226.990(3)              112.99
227.550                 92.14
227.550(12)             92.07
227.700                 93.01
227.700 - 227.750       93.01,
                        93.06
227.702                 93.01
227.704                 93.01
227.706                 93.01
227.708                 93.01
227.710                 93.02
227.715                 93.02,
                        93.03
227.715(6)              93.03
227.715(7)              93.03
227.715(8)              93.03
227.720                 93.04
227.730                 93.05
227.750                 93.06
227.990(1)              150.99
227.990(4)              93.99
Chs. 241 - 244          40.01
241.010                 40.01
241.030                 40.01,
                        40.60
241.160                 40.60
241.170(2)              40.60
241.190                 40.60
243.015                 40.01
243.070                 40.20
243.230                 40.26
243.280                 40.26
243.390                 40.22
243.440                 40.21
243.450                 40.24
243.480                 40.62
243.480 - 243.590       40.62
243.500                 40.62
243.990(1)              40.99
243.990(2)              40.99
244.020                 92.03
244.080                 40.45
244.083                 40.43
244.085                 40.45
244.990(1)              40.99
244.990(5)              40.99
244.990(6)              40.99
257.100                 90.06
257.100(4)              90.01
281.010                 92.14
Ch. 304, Subtitle 17B   113.03
304.39-080              73.41
318.990                 150.99
Ch. 342                 113.03
Ch. 350                 152.05
411.500 - 411.570       Ch. 92
                        32.42,
                        33.04,
Ch. 424                 33.14,
                        33.15,
                        151.09
424.120                 33.04
424.220                 33.04
424.220(6)(b)           33.04
436.600                 90.04,
                        90.99
446.010(1)              10.02
446.010(2)              10.02
446.010(9)              10.02
446.010(10)             10.02
446.010(12)             10.02
446.010(13)             10.02
446.010(14)             10.02
446.010(15)             10.02
446.010(17)             10.02
446.010(18)             10.02
446.010(23)             10.02
446.010(25)             10.02
446.010(26)             10.02
446.010(27)             10.02
446.010(28)             10.02
446.010(30)             10.02
446.010(31)             10.02
446.010(33)             10.02
446.010(37)             10.02
446.010(39)             10.02
446.010(43)             10.02
446.010(46)             10.02
446.010(47)             10.02
446.010(49)             10.02
446.010(55)             10.02
446.020(1)              10.03
446.020(2)              10.03
446.030                 10.04
446.050                 10.05
446.060                 10.06
446.080(1)              10.03
446.080(3)              10.03
446.080(4)              10.03
446.090                 10.07
446.100                 10.08
446.110                 10.09
446.140                 10.01
525.010(3)              92.01
525.060                 92.03
525.090                 92.03
525.125                 90.03
525.130                 90.03,
                        90.99
531.010(9)              40.46
                        10.02,
532.090(1)              92.99(D),
                        111A.99,
                        130.99
534.040(2)              73.99
                        10.02,
534.040(2)(a)           92.99(D),
                        130.99
534.040(2)(c)           10.02,
                        71.99(C)
534.050(2)(a)           111A.99
Ch. 600 - 645           130.05
610.200 - 610.280       130.05
                        
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description Code Section
Ord.  Date     Description                                                                        Code
No.   Passed                                                                                      Section
64-   - -      Covering bid for electric franchise                                                 
004
64-   3-2-64   Accepting ULH & P Company bid                                                      T.S.O.
005                                                                                               II
69-   - -      Establishing a system for assessment, levy and collection of city taxes             
009
69-   - -      Providing for lighting by electricity                                              Not
010                                                                                               Included
70-   - -      Providing for the letting at public bidding an electrical communication system     Not
012                                                                                               Included
70-   - -      Providing for the letting at public bidding a public communications system         Not
013                                                                                               Included
71-   - -      Accepting the bid of ULH & P Company                                               Not
015                                                                                               Included
71-   2-4-71   Accepting bid of Cincinnati Bell                                                   T.S.O.
016                                                                                               II
72-   - -      Providing for additional street lighting                                           Not
017                                                                                               Included
73-   - -      Establishing system for assessment, levying and collection of city taxes           Not
009                                                                                               Included
73-   - -      Providing for street lighting                                                      Not
010                                                                                               Included
73-   - -      Providing for additional street lighting                                           Not
011                                                                                               Included
73-   - -      Public bidding for erection of communications system                               Not
012                                                                                               Included
73-   - -      Letting at public bidding communications system                                    Not
013                                                                                               Included
73-                                                                                             Not
014                                                                                               Included
73-   - -      Accepting bid of ULH & P Company                                                   Not
015                                                                                               Included
73-   - -      Accepting bid of Cincinnati Bell to establish a communications system              Not
016                                                                                               Included
73-   - -      Additional street lighting                                                         Not
017                                                                                               Included
73-   - -                                                                                        Not
018                                                                                               Included
73-   - -      Proposing to annex southeast of Union                                              Not
019                                                                                               Included
73-   9-6-73   Annexing Utz and Collett property                                                  T.S.O.
020                                                                                               I
73-   9-6-73   Annexing certain property                                                          T.S.O.
021                                                                                               I
76-   - -      Establishing meeting time and place                                                Repealed
001
76-   - -      City Attorney appointment and compensation                                         Not
002                                                                                               Included
76-   - -      Adopting Boone County PVA assessment for use by city                               Not
003                                                                                               Included
76-   - -      Appointing City Treasurer                                                          Not
004                                                                                               Included
76-   - -      Appointing City Clerk                                                              Not
005                                                                                               Included
76-   - -      Fixing 1976 tax rate for City of Union                                             Not
006                                                                                               Included
76-   - -      Contract with ULH & P Company for street lights for period of three years          Not
007                                                                                               Included
76-   12-2-76  Proposing annexation of certain property                                           T.S.O.
008                                                                                               I
77-   - -      Annexing south and east of Union (Group 2056)                                      Not
001                                                                                               Included
77-   - -      Proposing annexation to north and east of Union                                    Not
002                                                                                               Included
77-   - -      Fixing 1977 tax rate                                                               Not
003                                                                                               Included
77-   - -      Compensation for City Attorney                                                     Not
004                                                                                               Included
77-   - -      Annexation - north and east of Union                                               Not
005                                                                                               Included
77-   - -      Annexation – north and east of Union (Replaces Ordinance 77-005 due to publicatioNot
006            error)                                                                             Included
77-   10-6-77  Annexing certain property                                                          T.S.O.
007                                                                                               I
78-   - -      Fixing tax rate for 1978                                                           Not
000                                                                                               Included
78-   - -      Providing for fire protection by Union Volunteer Fire Department                   Not
001                                                                                               Included
78-   - -      Appointing City Treasurer                                                          Repealed
002
78-   - -      Appointing City Clerk                                                              Not
003                                                                                               Included
78-   - -      Compensation of City Attorney                                                      Not
004                                                                                               Included
78-   - -      Levying and fixing the tax rate for the year 1978                                  Not
005                                                                                               Included
79-   - -      Adopting policies and objectives for comprehensive plan for Boone County           Not
001                                                                                               Included
79-   - -      Amending off-street parking, loading and unloading                                 Not
002                                                                                               Included
79-   - -      Levying and fixing the tax rate for 1979                                           Not
003                                                                                               Included
79-   - -      Compensation for City Attorney                                                     Not
004                                                                                               Included
79-   - -      Adopting map amendments to land use plan                                           Not
005                                                                                               Included
79-   - -      Zoning (agricultural zone, multifamily)                                            Not
007                                                                                               Included
79-   8-2-79   Relating to outdoor swimming pools                                                 150.01,
008                                                                                               150.99
79-   - -      Adopting zone map amendments                                                       Not
009                                                                                               Included
79-   - -      Adopting comprehensive plan                                                        Not
010                                                                                               Included
80-   - -      Amending and regulating subsurface mining uses                                     Not
001                                                                                               Included
80-   - -      Appointing City Clerk                                                              Not
002                                                                                               Included
80-   - -      Establishing position and appointing Building Inspector                            Not
003                                                                                               Included
80-   - -      Fixing compensation of City Attorney                                               Not
004                                                                                               Included
80-   - -      Installation of street light poles by developers                                   Not
005                                                                                               Included
80-   - -      Prohibiting nuisances                                                              Not
006                                                                                               Included
80-   - -      Annexing unincorporated area south and west of Union                               Not
007                                                                                               Included
80-   5-1-80   Annexing certain property                                                          T.S.O.
008                                                                                               I
80-   7-3-80   Adopting zoning regulations                                                        154.01
009
80-   - -      Missing                                                                            Not
010                                                                                               Included
80-   - -80    Approving subdivision regulations                                                  153.01
011
80-   10-21-80 Annexing certain property                                                          T.S.O.
012                                                                                               I
81-   - -      Levying and fixing tax rate for 1980                                               Not
001                                                                                               Included
81-   - -      Adopting budget for 1/1/81 through 12/31/81                                        Not
002                                                                                               Included
81-   2-8-81   Amending subdivision regulations                                                   153.01
003
81-   - -      Establishing commission form of government and authorization to vote for Mayor and Not
004            four Commissioners                                                                 Included
81-   5-7-81   Amending subdivision regulations                                                   153.01
005
81-   6-4-81   Amending zoning regulations                                                        154.01
006
81-   6-4-81   Amending zoning regulations                                                        154.01
007
81-   7-2-81   Amending zoning regulations                                                        154.01
008
81-   - -      Fixing compensation for City Attorney                                              Not
009                                                                                               Included
81-   - -      Parking of motor vehicles                                                          Repealed
010
81-   - -      Establishing compensation of Mayor and Commissioners                               Not
011                                                                                               Included
82-   - -      Levying tax rate for 1981                                                          Not
001                                                                                               Included
82-   - -      Adopting budget for fiscal year 1/1/82 through 12/31/82                            Repealed
002
82-   - -      Appointing Rankin, Rankin and Co., to perform audit                                Not
003                                                                                               Included
82-   - -      Appointing a City Clerk                                                            Repealed
004
82-   - -      Repealing Ord. 78-002, appointing City Treasurer                                   Not
005                                                                                               Included
82-   - -      Appointing City Treasurer                                                          Repealed
006
82-   - -      Approving residential one-family zone                                              Not
007                                                                                               Included
82-   5-6-82   Regarding the maintenance and safekeeping of city records                          32.41
008
82-   6-3-82   Establishing the Department of Public Works                                        36.01,
009                                                                                               36.02
82-   - -      Repealing Ord. 82-002, an ordinance establishing the fiscal year for the City of   Not
010            Union                                                                              Included
82-   - -      Establishing fiscal year for the City of Union                                     Not
011                                                                                               Included
82-   - -      Adopting annual budget for the FY July 1, 1982 through June 30, 1983               Not
012                                                                                               Included
82-   - -      Levying and fixing tax rate for fiscal year 1982                                   Not
013                                                                                               Included
82-   - -      Repealing Ord. 76-001, an ordinance establishing the meeting date and time of city Not
014            commissioners                                                                      Included
82-   - -      Establishing the day and time of the monthly commissioners meetings                Not
015                                                                                               Included
82-   - -      Adopting an amendment to Boone County zoning regulations, adding article 9A        Not
016            (temporary commercial displays)                                                    Included
82-   - -      Establishing day and time of Commission meetings                                   Not
017                                                                                               Included
82-   - -      Establishing a foreclosure procedure for delinquent city taxes                     Not
018                                                                                               Included
82-   - -      Creating a tax review committee                                                    Not
019                                                                                               Included
82-   - -      Repealing Ord. 82-006, appointing a City Treasurer                                 Not
020                                                                                               Included
82-   - -      Repealing Ord. 82-004, appointing City Clerk                                       Not
021                                                                                               Included
82-   - -      Appointing a City Treasurer                                                        Not
022                                                                                               Included
82-   - -      Appointing a City Clerk                                                            Not
023                                                                                               Included
82-   - -      Appointing a bookkeeper                                                            Not
024                                                                                               Included
82-   - -      Fixing compensation of City Attorney                                               Not
025                                                                                               Included
82-   9-12-83  Proposing to annex certain property                                                Rescinded
26A
82-   9-12-83  Proposing to annex certain property                                                Rescinded
27A
82-?  - -      Appointing Rankin & Co. to audit accounts                                          Not
                                                                                                  Included
82-?  - -      Establishing a uniform numbering system as part of the Boone County numbering and  Not
               addressing system                                                                  Included
83-   - -      Appointing a City Secretary/Clerk                                                  Not
001                                                                                               Included
83-   - -      Appointing a City Treasurer                                                        Not
002                                                                                               Included
83-   - -      Establishing an agricultural use exemption for real property                       Repealed
003
83-   - -      Appointing a bookkeeper                                                            Not
004                                                                                               Included
83-   - -      Fixing the compensation of the City Attorney                                       Not
005                                                                                               Included
83-           Relating to the imposition and payment of tax for the privilege of carrying on a   Tabled
006            business
83-   - -      Establishing the compensation of the Mayor and City Commissioners                  Not
007                                                                                               Included
83-   11-7-83  Levying and fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1983-84                        Amended
008
83-   - -      Adopting the annual budget for the fiscal year 7/1/83 through 6/30/84              Not
009                                                                                               Included
83-   - -      Amending Ord. 83-008, levying and fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1983-84  Not
010                                                                                               Included
84-   - -      Declaring that a vacancy exists for the office of Mayor and appointing his         Not
001E           successor                                                                          Included
84-   - -      Appointing a City Commissioner                                                     Not
002E                                                                                              Included
      - -      Stating the intention of the city to reduce its boundaries pursuant to KRS 81A.440 Not
               and defining the boundaries of the city to be de- annexed                          Included
84-   - -      Increasing the salary of the City Clerk                                            Not
004                                                                                               Included
84-   - -      Accepting the bid of Rumpke of Kentucky Inc. to pick up trash in the City of Union Not
005            commencing July 1, 1984 through June 30, 1985                                      Included
84-   - -      Adopting the annual budget for the fiscal year, July 1, 1984 through June 30, 1985 Not
006                                                                                               Included
84-   - -      Levying and fixing the tax rate of the city for the fiscal year 1984-85;           Not
007                                                                                               Included
84-   11-23-84 Deannexing certain property                                                        T.S.O.
008                                                                                               I
84-   - -      Declaring that a vacancy exists for the office of Mayor and appointing his         Not
009E           successor                                                                          Included
84-   - -      Appointing a City Commissioner                                                     Not
010E                                                                                              Included
84-   - -      Appointing a City Commissioner                                                     Not
011E                                                                                              Included
85-   - -      Adopting and approving the rezoning of certain real estate                         Not
001                                                                                               Included
85-   - -      Repealing Ordinance No. 83-003 of the city which established an agricultural       Not
002            exemption for real property located in the city                                    Included
85-   - -      Governing the parking of motor vehicles within the city limits                     Repealed
003
85-   - -      Repealing Ordinance No. 81-010 of the city styled “Ordinance governing the parkinNot
004            of motor vehicles.”                                                              Included
85-   - -      Establishing the compensation of the Mayor and the City Commissioners              Not
005                                                                                               Included
85-   - -      Granting and offering for sale a 20-year franchise to place electric transmission  Not
006            and distribution facilities in public streets and places                           Included
85-   - -      Accepting the bid of Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc. to pick up trash in the city         Not
007            commencing July 1, 1985 through June 30, 1986                                      Included
85-   - -      Governing the parking of motor vehicles within the city limits                     Not
008                                                                                               Included
85-   - -      Repealing ordinance 85-003                                                         Did not
009                                                                                               pass
85-   - -      Adopting the annual budget for the FY 7/1/85 through 6/30/86,                      Not
010E                                                                                              Included
85-   - -      Accepting the bid of ULH & P Company                                               Not
011                                                                                               Included
85-   9-9-85   Regulating parking                                                                 Repealed
012
85-   - -      Repealing Ord. No. 85-003 styled “Ordinance governing the parking of motor       Not
013            vehicles”                                                                        Included
85-   - -      Levying and fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1985-86;                       Not
014                                                                                               Included
85-            Serving as a regulation under applicable Kentucky law relating to approving and    Not
015   - -      adopting a statement of goals and objectives, principles, policies and standards   Included
               as part of a review of the Boone County Comprehensive Plan;
86-   - -      Appointing a City Commissioner                                                     Not
001                                                                                               Included
86-   - -      Adopting by reference Ord. No. 840.2 passed by the Boone Fiscal Court which        Not
002            provided for the treatment, care, handling and population control of animals       Included
86-   - -      Amending the personal and mixed tax rate of the city for the fiscal year 1985-86   Not
003                                                                                               Included
86-   - -      Adopting Res. R-12-86 of the Boone County Planning Commission regarding a change   Not
004            to Article 20, Definitions regarding mobile homes”                               Included
86-   - -      Adopting Res. R-21-86 passed by the Boone County Planning Commission which amends  Not
005            section 912(1) of the Boone County Zoning Regulations                              Included
86-   - -      Appointing a Building Inspector                                                    Tabled
006
86-   - -      Adopting the annual budget for the fiscal year commencing July 1, 1986 through     Not
007            June 30, 1987                                                                      Included
86-            Adopting Res. R-22-86 passed by the Boone County Planning Commission, styled       Not
008   - -      regarding a regulation adopting and approving elements as amendments to the Boone  Included
               County Comprehensive Plan
86-   10-6-86  Levying and fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1986-87;                       Rescinded
009
86-   - -      Levying and fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1986-87                        Not
010                                                                                               Included
86-   - -      Adopting Res. R-30-86 of the Boone County Planning Commission providing for a      Not
011            zoning text amendment to the Boone County zoning map                               Included
87-                                                                                               92.01 –
001   2-2-87   Prohibiting nuisances                                                              92.09,
                                                                                                  92.99
87-   - -      Relating to the adoption and approval of the land use plan element                 Not
002                                                                                               Included
87-   - -      Relating to the adoption and approval of zoning regulations                        Not
003                                                                                               Included
87-   - -      Adopting Res. R-39-86 of the Boone County Planning Commission which provides for a Not
004            zoning text amendment to the Boone County zoning map                               Included
87-   - -      Adopting the annual budget for the fiscal year commencing July 1, 1987 through     Not
005            June 30, 1988                                                                      Included
87-   - -      Adopting Res. R-22-87 of the Boone County Planning Commission providing for an     Not
006            amendment to the Boone County Zoning Regulations changing Section 883              Included
               Approving a joint and cooperative program for self-insurance, and the investing of
               public funds among various cities, urban- county governments and other public
87-            agencies within the Commonwealth of Kentucky; authorizing the execution of the     Not
007E  - -      “Interlocal cooperation agreement to establish the Kentucky Municipal Risk       Included
               Management Association” (the “interlocal agreement”) under which the program will
               be organized and financed; authorizing the issuance of revenue bonds under the
               terms and conditions set forth in the interlocal agreement
               Approving participation in the Kentucky Municipal Risk Management Association
               (KMRMA) general insurance approving the purchase by the city through the KMRMA
87-   - -      general insurance coverages as shall be determined advisable; and authorizing the  Not
008E           mayor of the city to execute for and on behalf of the city in connection with its  Included
               participation in the KMRMA general insurance trust a binding trust participation
               between the city and KMRMA
87-            Adopting Res. R-27-87 passed by the Boone County Planning Commission on May 20,    Not
009   - -      1987, amending Boone County Zoning Regulations, Article 17A, Section 1782, and     Included
               amending Article 20
87-   - -      Adopting Res. R-24-87 passed by the Boone County Planning Commission dealing with  Not
010            the location of mobile homes in small community development zones                  Included
               Adopting Res. R-28-87 passed by the Boone County Planning Commission concerning
87-   - -      county-wide planning, land use regulation and zoning for Boone County and allowing Not
011            for compensation of citizen members of the Boone County Planning Commission and    Included
               Boards of Adjustment
87-            Adopting Res. R-23-87 passed by the Boone County Planning Commission amending      Not
012   - -      sections 841 and section 843 to further control the placement of duplexes in       Included
               suburban residential two (SR-2) zones
87-   - -      Levying and fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1987-88                        Not
013                                                                                               Included
               Adopting Res. R-53-87 passed by the Boone County Planning Commission amending the
87-   - -      Boone County Zoning Regulations Article 9, Sections 941 and 943 to make truck      Not
014            stops a conditional use in the existing commercial services (C-3) zoning           Included
               classifications
88-   - -      Adopting Res. R-54-87 passed by the Boone County Planning Commission amending the  Not
001            Boone County Zoning Regulations changing Article 17 and Article 20                 Included
88-   - -                                                                                        Not used
002
88-   - -      Accepting the bid of Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc. to pick up trash commencing July 1,  Not
003            1988 through June 30, 1989                                                         Included
88-   - -      Adopting the annual budget for the fiscal year commencing July 1, 1988 and ending  Not
004            June 30, 1989                                                                      Included
88-            Adopting Res. R-32-88 passed by the Boone County Planning Commission providing for Not
005   - -      a text amendment to Article 17 and Article 20 of the Boone County Zoning           Included
               Regulations which apply to model homes
88-   - -      Levying and fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1988-89                        Not
006                                                                                               Included
88-            Res. R-43-88 passed by the Boone County Planning Commission amending the Boone     Not
007   - -      County Zoning Regulations changing Article IX, Section 923, to add the sale of     Included
               recreational vehicles as an additional use in the C-2 zone
88-            Adopting Res. R-42-88 passed by the Boone County Planning Commission for adoption  Not
009   - -      of amendment to the 1986 Boone County Subdivision Regulations in order to conform  Included
               to recent changes KRS Chapter 100
89-   3-13-89  Regulating unfit structures                                                        151.01 –
001                                                                                               151.12
89-   - -      Establishing the compensation of the Mayor and the City Commission                 Not
002                                                                                               Included
89-   4-3-89   Changing the time, date and place for commission meetings                          32.21
003
89-   - -      Amending the Boone County zoning map by adoption of Resolution R-11-89 passed by   Not
004            the Boone County Planning Commission                                               Included
89-   5-8-89   Adopting Res. R-12-89, amending zoning regulations                                 154.01
005
               Adopting Res. R-15-89 passed by the Boone County Planning Commission said
89-   - -      resolution to serve as a regulation adopting and approving the recreation element, Not
006            entitled Boone County Open Space Master Plan, as part of the update or amendment   Included
               of the current Boone County Comprehensive Plan
89-            Adopting Res. R-16-89 passed by the Boone County Planning Commission recommending  Not
007   - -      approval to adopt an amendment to Boone County Zoning Regulations Article XIX,     Included
               Section 19-40, regarding the placement of off-premises signs in Boone County
89-   - -      Adopting the annual budget for the fiscal year commencing July 1, 1989 and ending  Not
008            June 30, 1990                                                                      Included
89-   - -      Accepting the bid of Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc. to pick up trash commencing July 1,  Not
009            1989 through June 30, 1990                                                         Included
89-   - -      Levying and fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1989-90                        Not
010                                                                                               Included
90-   - -      Governing street repairs                                                           Not
001                                                                                               Included
90-            Adopting Res. R-43-89 passed by the Boone County Planning Commission changing      Not
002   - -      Article 18, Section 1812, changing paving requirements for off-street parking and  Included
               loading areas
90-   - -      Adopting Res. R-42-89 passed by the Boone County Planning Commission amending the  Not
003            Boone County Zoning Regulations, Article 19, Section 1902, and adding Section 1945 Included
90-   3-12-90  Implementing the classification plan, compensation plan and policies and           38.01
004            procedures for employees
90-   - -      Amending the ordinance establishing the compensation of the Mayor and City         Not
005            Commission                                                                         Included
90-   - -      Providing for the treatment, care, handling and population control of stray        Not
006            animals within the city limit                                                      Included
90-            Adopting Res. 40-89 passed by the Boone County Planning Commission; said           Not
007   - -      resolution to serve as a regulation adopting and approving the statement of goals  Included
               and objectives for the 1990 Boone County Comprehensive Plan
90-   - -      Accepting the bid of Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc. to pick up trash commencing July 1,  Not
008            1990 through June 30, 1991                                                         Included
90-   - -      Adopting the annual budget for the fiscal year July 1, 1990, through June 30, 1991 Not
009                                                                                               Included
90-   - -      Accepting the recommendation of the Director of Public Works that certain street   Not
010            repairs be made to the streets of Union                                            Included
90-   9-9-90   Annexing certain property                                                          T.S.O. I
014
91-                                                                                               73.15 –
002   5-13-91                                                                                    73.18,
                                                                                                  73.99
91-   10-14-91 Annexing certain property                                                          T.S.O. I
009
92-   1-13-92  Annexing certain property                                                          T.S.O. I
002
92-   4-13-92  Annexing certain property                                                          T.S.O. I
005
93-   11-8-93                                                                                    154.01
007
93-   - -93                                                                                      154.01
008
94-   12-12-94                                                                                   37.01 –
013                                                                                               37.06
95-   2-13-95  Annexing certain property                                                          T.S.O. I
001
95-   3-13-95                                                                                    37.03
002
95-   4-17-95  Annexing certain property                                                          T.S.O. I
006
95-   7-10-95                                                                                    35.01 –
009                                                                                               35.04
95-   10-16-95 Annexing certain property                                                          T.S.O. I
013
96-   2-12-96                                                                                    T.S.O. II
001
96-   3-11-96                                                                                    38.02
002
96-   5-13-96                                                                                    153.02
003
96-   8-12-96                                                                                    T.S.O. II
004
96-   - -96                                                                                      35.40
006
96-   9-16-96                                                                                    35.01 -
007                                                                                               35.03
96-   9-16-96                                                                                    Repealed
008
96-   11-4-96                                                                                    70.40 -
009                                                                                               70.43
96-   11-4-96                                                                                    153.01
010
96-   - -96                                                                                      T.S.O. III
012
97-   2-10-97  Relating to flood damage prevention                                                152.01
001
97-   - -      Relating to retirement                                                             Not Passed
002
97-   6-2-97   Exchanging property with the city of Florence                                      T.S.O. I
003
97-   7-14-97  Adopting the annual budget for FY 97-98                                            Not
004                                                                                               Included
97-   7-14-97  Accepting the bid of Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc. to provide waste collection          T.S.O. II
005
97-   10-6-97  Adopting the city's code of ordinances                                             Front
006
97-   10-6-97  Levying and fixing real and tangible property tax rates for FY 97-98               35.01,
007                                                                                               T.S.O. IV
98-   2-9-98   Amending the annual budget for FY 97-98                                            Not
001                                                                                               Included
98-   - -      Imposing insurance license fees                                                    Rescinded
002
98-   6-9-98   Adopting the annual budget for FY 98-99                                            Not
003                                                                                               Included
98-   7-13-98  Accepting the bid of Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc. to provide waste collection          T.S.O. II
004
98-   9-15-98  Levying and fixing real and tangible property tax rates for FY 98-99               35.01,
005                                                                                               T.S.O. IV
98-   9-12-98  Proposing to annex certain territory                                               T.S.O. I
006
                                                                                                  91.01,
                                                                                                  91.03,
                                                                                                  91.07
                                                                                                  (Repealed)
98-                                                                                               ,
007   10-12-98 Relating to street, driveway and sidewalk construction, repair and upkeep          91.08,
                                                                                                  71.28,
                                                                                                  71.99,
                                                                                                  94.06,
                                                                                                  94.07,
                                                                                                  94.99
98-   11-9-98  Proposing to annex certain territory                                               T.S.O. I
008
98-   11-9-98  Changing Sycamore Drive to one way                                                 Ch. 74,
009                                                                                               Sch. I
98-   11-9-98  Amending zoning regulations                                                        154.01
010
98-   - -      Annexing certain property                                                          Not Passed
011
98-   - -      Intending to annex certain property                                                Repealed
012
98-   - -      Intending to annex certain property                                                Repealed
013
99-   4-12-99  Repealing Ord. 98-012 and 98-013                                                   T.S.O. V
001
99-   4-12-99  Approving an interlocal agreement to establish the KMRMA                           T.S.O. II
002
99-   6-14-99  Authorizing and directing participation in the county employees retirement system  38.03
003
99-   6-14-99  Adopting the annual budget for FY 99-00                                            Not
004                                                                                               Included
99-   5-18-99  Annexing certain property                                                          T.S.O.
005                                                                                               I
99-   5-18-99  Annexing certain property                                                          T.S.O.
006                                                                                               I
99-   6-14-99  Accepting the bid of CSI of Northern Kentucky, Inc. to provide waste collection    T.S.O.
007                                                                                               II
99-   7-12-99  Amending the annual budget for FY 99-00                                            Not
008                                                                                               Included
99-                                                                                               35.01,
009   10-4-99  Levying and fixing real and tangible property tax rates for FY 99-00               T.S.O.
                                                                                                  IV
99-   1-10-00  Amending zoning regulations                                                        154.01
010
99-   1-10-00  Amending zoning regulations                                                        154.01
011
99-   1-10-00  Amending zoning regulations                                                        154.01
012
2000- 5-8-00   Adopting a statement of goals and objectives for the comprehensive plan            153.03
001
2000- 7-10-00  Amending the annual budget for FY 99-00                                            Not
002                                                                                               Included
2000- 7-10-00  Adopting the annual budget for FY 00-01                                            Not
003                                                                                               Included
2000- 6-12-00  Replacing a commissioner who has resigned                                          Not
004                                                                                               Included
2000- 7-10-00  Accepting the bid of Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc. to provide waste collection          T.S.O.
005                                                                                               II
2000- - -      Amending zoning regulations                                                        Not Passed
006
2000- 8-28-00  Amending zoning regulations                                                        154.01
007
2000-                                                                                             35.01,
008   10-16-00 Levying and fixing real and tangible property tax rates for FY 00-01               T.S.O.
                                                                                                  IV
2000- 12-11-00 Repealing Ord. 85-012 and governing the parking of motor vehicles                  Repealed
009
2001- 7-9-01   Amending the annual budget for FY 00-01                                            Not
002                                                                                               Included
2001- 7-9-01   Adopting the annual budget for FY 01-02                                            Not
003                                                                                               Included
2001- 7-9-01   Accepting the bid of Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc. to provide waste collection          T.S.O.
004                                                                                               II
2001-                                                                                             35.01,
005   10-8-01  Levying and fixing real and tangible property tax rates for FY 01-02               T.S.O.
                                                                                                  IV
2001-                                                                                             92.20-
006   11-5-01  Prohibiting unlawful noises                                                        92.22,
                                                                                                  92.99
02-   6-10-02  Annual budget amendment July 1, 2001 through June 30, 2002                         Not
001                                                                                               Included
02-   6-10-02  Acceptance of bid of CSI Waste Service                                             T.S.O.
002                                                                                               II
02-   7-8-02   Annual budget for July 1 through June 30, 2003                                     Not
003                                                                                               Included
02-   8-12-02  Adoption and approval of Zoning regulations                                        154.01
004
02-   8-12-02  Adopting a supplement to the code                                                  Adopting
005                                                                                               Ordinance
02-                                                                                               35.01,
006   10-14-02 Levying and fixing real and tangible property tax rates for FY 02-03               T.S.O.
                                                                                                  IV
03-   4-14-03  Ad valorem tax                                                                     35.05
001
03-   6-9-03   Succession of Office of Mayor in event of absence or disability                    31.21
002
03-   6-23-03  Annual budget amendment July 1, 2002 through June 30, 2003                         Not
003                                                                                               Included
03-   6-23-03  Adopting annual budget for July 1, 2003 through June 30, 2004                      Not
004                                                                                               Included
03-   8-11-03  Accepting bid of Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc.to provide waste collection services      T.S.O.
005                                                                                               II
03-   8-11-03  Accepting the bid of Paul Michels & Sons to provide street repair services         T.S.O.
006                                                                                               II
03-                                                                                               35.01,
007   10-13-03 Levying and fixing real and tangible property tax rates for FY 03-04               T.S.O.
                                                                                                  IV
04-   6-22-04  Amending the annual budget for FY 03-04                                            Not
001                                                                                               Included
04-   7-12-04  Adopting the annual budget for FY 04-05                                            Not
002                                                                                               Included
04-   7-12-04  Adopting a supplement to the code                                                  Adopting
003                                                                                               Ordinance
2004- 7-12-04  Amending Code of Ethics                                                            37.01,
004                                                                                               37.07
2004-                                                                                             35.01,
005   10-11-04 Levying and fixing real and tangible property tax rates for FY 04-05               T.S.O.
                                                                                                  IV
2004- 10-11-04 Adopting and approving of the goals and objectives for the 2005 Boone County       Not
006            Comprehensive Plan                                                                 Included
04-   11-8-04  Annexing certain property                                                          T.S.O.
007                                                                                               I
2004- 1-10-05  Closure of Maple Street                                                            Not
008                                                                                               Included
05-   3-14-05  Amending personnel policies and pay plan                                           Not
002                                                                                               Included
2005-                                                                                             130.01 -
001   2-14-05  Establishing curfew hours                                                          130.06,
                                                                                                  130.99
2005- 4-11-05  Providing for orderly succession of office of Mayor                                31.21
003
2005- 5-9-05   Establishing ad valorem tax for abandoned urban property                           35.50 -
004                                                                                               35.52
2005- 8-8-05   Annexing certain property                                                          T.S.O.
005                                                                                               I
2005- 7-11-05  Amending the annual budget for FY 04-05                                            Not
006                                                                                               Included
2005- 7-11-05  Adopting the annual budget for FY 05-06                                            Not
007                                                                                               Included
2005- 7-11-05  Accepting bid of Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc. to provide waste collection services     T.S.O.
008                                                                                               II
2005- 9-12-05  Creating a waste removal chapter                                                   50.01,
010                                                                                               50.99
2005-                                                                                             35.01 -
011   10-10-05 Levying and fixing real and tangible property tax rates for FY 05-06               35.03,
                                                                                                  T.S.O. IV
2005- 10-10-05 Zoning map amendment                                                               Not
012                                                                                               Included
2005- 10-10-05 Amending speed limits                                                              Not
013                                                                                               Included
2005- 11-14-05 Adopting a supplement to the Code                                                  Adopting
014                                                                                               Ordinance
2006- 2-13-06  Creating office of City Administrative Officer                                     Repealed
001
2006- 2-13-06  Zoning map amendment                                                               Not
002                                                                                               Included
2006-                                                                                             73.25 -
003   2-13-06  Regulating the operation of all-terrain vehicles and dirt bike/motocross           73.30,
                                                                                                  73.99
2006- 3-13-06  Amending Code of Ethics and adding new when to file statements provisions          37.03,
004                                                                                               37.08
2006- 6-23-06  Amending the annual budget for FY 05-06                                            Not
005                                                                                               Included
2006- 7-10-06  Adopting the annual budget for FY 06-07                                            Not
006                                                                                               Included
2006- 11-13-06 Ordering the demolition of the structure located at 10015 Old Union Road           Not
007                                                                                               Included
                                                                                                  35.01 -
2006- 10-9-06  Levying and fixing real and tangible property tax rates for FY 06-07               35.03,
008                                                                                               T.S.O.
                                                                                                  IV
2006- 1-8-07   Ordering the closure of Maple Street                                               Not
009                                                                                               Included
2007- 2-13-07  Annexing certain property                                                          T.S.O.
001                                                                                               I
2007- —      Setting speed limits                                                               Not
002                                                                                               Included
                                                                                                  152.01 -
                                                                                                  152.12,
                                                                                                  152.25 -
2007- 4-9-07   Establishing a Flood Damage Prevention chapter                                     152.27,
003                                                                                               152.35 -
                                                                                                  152.42,
                                                                                                  152.98,
                                                                                                  152.99
2007- 6-11-07  Amending the annual budget for FY 06-07                                            Not
004                                                                                               Included
2007- 6-11-07  Setting speed limits                                                               Not
005                                                                                               Included
2007- 7-9-07   Adopting the annual budget for FY 07-08                                            Not
006                                                                                               Included
2007- 7-9-07   Providing for orderly succession of office of Mayor                                31.21
007
2007- 9-10-07  Adopting a supplement to the Code                                                  Adopting
008                                                                                               Ordinance
2007- 11-13-07 Providing specifications for demolition of unsafe structures                       151.13
009
2007-                                                                                             35.01 -
010   10-8-07  Levying and fixing real and tangible property tax rates for FY 07-08               35.03,
                                                                                                  T.S.O. IV
2007- 11-13-07 Setting speed limit                                                                Not
012                                                                                               Included
2007- 12-10-07 Zoning map amendment                                                               Not
013                                                                                               Included
2007- 1-14-08  Setting compensation for Clerk/Treasurer                                           Not
014                                                                                               Included
2007- 1-14-08  Ordering partial closure of Seltman Drive                                          Not
015                                                                                               Included
2007- 11-13-07 Adopting agreement with Transportation Cabinet and accepting streets               T.S.O. III
016
2007- 1-14-08  Amending the annual budget for FY 07-08                                            Not
016                                                                                               Included
2008- 4-14-08  Adoption and approval of zoning regulations                                        154.01
001
2008- 5-12-08  Adopting procedures for the construction of the Mt. Zion/Old Union/Russ Will sewer Not
003            project                                                                            Included
2008- 6-9-08   Amending the annual budget for FY 07-08                                            Not
004                                                                                               Included
2008- 5-15-08  Approving $375,000 lease for financing of a public project                         Not
005                                                                                               Included
2008- 7-14-08  Adopting the annual budget for FY 08-09                                            Not
006                                                                                               Included
2008- 7-14-08  Providing for time and place of meetings of City Commission                        32.21
007
2008- 9-8-08   Setting compensation for administrative officer                                    Not
008                                                                                               Included
2008- 10-13-08 Amending zoning regulations                                                        154.01
009
2008-                                                                                             35.01 -
010   10-13-08 Levying and fixing real and tangible property tax rates for FY 08-09               35.04,
                                                                                                  T.S.O. IV
2008- 11-10-08 Adopting a supplement to the code                                                  Adopting
012                                                                                               Ordinance
2008- 12-8-08  Granting a franchise for cable service to Cincinnati Bell Extended Territories,    T.S.O. II
013            LLC
2008- 12-8-08  Setting the compensation for the City Clerk/Treasurer                              Not
014                                                                                               Included
2008- 1-12-09  Creating the position of City Events Coordinator                                   31.55
015
2009- 2-9-09   Adopting the amended annual budget for FY 08-09                                    Not
001                                                                                               Included
2009- 2-9-09   Setting the compensation for City Administrator                                    Not
02                                                                                                Included
2009- 6-8-09   Establishing the day and time of monthly City Commissioners meeting                32.21
003
2009-                                                                                             35.01 -
004   6-8-09   Payment and procedure for collection of taxes                                      35.04,
                                                                                                  T.S.O. IV
2009- 6-8-09   Adopting the amended annual budget for FY 08-09                                    Not
005                                                                                               Included
2009- 7-6-09   Adopting the annual budget for FY 09-10                                            Not
006                                                                                               Included
2009- 8-3-09   Accepting the bid of Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc.                                      T.S.O. II
007
2009-                                                                                             92.20 -
008   7-6-09   Prohibiting unlawful noises                                                        92.24,
                                                                                                  92.99
2009-                                                                                             35.01 -
009   9-9-09   Levying and fixing real and tangible property tax rates for FY 09                  35.04,
                                                                                                  T.S.O. IV
2009- 11-2-09  Adopting the 2009 S-6 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances                         Adopting
010                                                                                               Ordinance
2009- 11-2-09  Annexing certain property                                                          T.S.O. I
011
2009- 1-4-10   Creating an Economic Development Committee for the city                            36.30,
012                                                                                               36.31
2010- 5-3-10   Adopting the amended annual budget for FY 09-10                                    Not
001                                                                                               Included
2010- 7-5-10   Adopting the annual budget for FY 10-11                                            Not
002                                                                                               Included
2010- 9-7-10   Annexation of certain property                                                     T.S.O. I
004
2010- 9-6-10   Dedicating the Union City Building in honor of Warren S. Moore                     Not
005                                                                                               Included
2010-                                                                                             35.01 -
006   9-4-10   Levying and fixing real and tangible property tax rates for FY 10-11               35.04,
                                                                                                  T.S.O. IV
2010- 9-29-10  Granting a change in an approved concept development plan                          Not
007                                                                                               Included
2011- 3-7-11   Adopting and approving the goals and objectives for the 2010 Boone County          Not
001            Comprehensive Plan                                                                 Included
2011- 5-2-11   Adopting the amended annual budget for FY 10-11                                    Not
002                                                                                               Included
2011- 6-6-11   Snow emergencies                                                                   70.41,
003                                                                                               70.42
2011- 7-5-11   Adopting the annual budget for FY 11-12                                            Not
004                                                                                               Included
2011- 7-5-11   Adopting the 2011 S-7 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances                         Adopting
005                                                                                               Ordinance
2011- 9-6-11   Creating the position of Office Assistant                                          Not
006                                                                                               Included
2011-                                                                                             35.01 -
007   10-3-11  Levying and fixing real and tangible property tax rates for FY 11-12               35.04,
                                                                                                  T.S.O. IV
2011- 12-5-11  Authorizing special assessment for the construction of electric streetlights in    Not
008            the Union Village Subdivision                                                      Included
2012- 4-10-12  Amending zoning regulations                                                        154.01
001
2012- --       Adopting the amended annual budget for FY 11-12                                    Did not
002                                                                                               pass
2012- 5-7-12   Compensation for the City Clerk/Treasurer                                          Not
003                                                                                               Included
2012- 6-4-12   Adopting the annual budget for FY 12-13                                            Not
006                                                                                               Included
2012- 6-4-12   Adopting the amended annual budget for FY 11-12                                    Not
007                                                                                               Included
2012-                                                                                             35.01 -
008   9-4-12   Levying and fixing real and tangible property tax rates for FY 12-13               35.04,
                                                                                                  T.S.O. IV
2012- 1-7-13   Adopting a supplement to the code                                                  Adopting
009                                                                                               Ordinance
2013- 7-9-13   Adopting and amending International Property Maintenance Code                      155.01,
001                                                                                               155.02
2013- 6-3-13   Approving the renewal of the franchise agreement with Insight Kentucky Partners    T.S.O. II
002            II, LP, to operate a cable communication system
2013- 8-13-13  Approving the grant of a non-exclusive franchise to Duke Energy for the            T.S.O. II
003            transmission of either or both natural gas and electricity for ten years
2013- 7-9-13   Adopting the amended annual budget for FY 12-13                                    Not
004                                                                                               Included
2013- 7-9-13   Adopting the annual budget for FY 13-14                                            Not
005                                                                                               Included
2013- 7-9-13   Compensation for City Clerk/Treasurer                                              Not
006                                                                                               Included
2013- 7-9-13   Compensation for Office Assistant                                                  Not
007                                                                                               Included
2013- 8-13-13  Accepting the bid of Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc., to provide waste collection         T.S.O. II
008            services for an additional two-year period
2013- 8-13-13  Repealing Ord. 2000-009 codified as amendment to § 70.42 and as Chapters 72 and 74T.S.O. V
009
2013- 8-13-13  Approving the use fo the Boone County Parking Violation Hearing Board for all      72.97
010            parking citations
2013-                                                                                             35.01 -
011   9-3-13   Levying and fixing real and tangible property tax rates for FY 13-14               35.04,
                                                                                                  T.S.O. IV
2013- Tabled                                                                                      
012
                                                                                                  72.01,
2013- 11-4-13  Creating Chapter 72, Parking on Public Streets or Ways                             72.02,
013                                                                                               72.97 –
                                                                                                  72.99
2014- 3-4-14   Amending zoning regulations                                                        154.01
001
2014- 6-2-14   Repealing § 91.33                                                                 T.S.O. V
002
2014- 4-3-14   Compensation for Mayor and City Commissioners                                      Not
003                                                                                               Included
2014- 4-14-14  Zoning map amendment                                                               Not
004                                                                                               Included
2014- 7-7-14   Adopting the amended annual budget for FY 13-14                                    Not
005                                                                                               Included
2014- 7-7-14   Adopting the annual budget for FY 14-15                                            Not
006                                                                                               Included
2014- 7-7-14   Repealing Ord. 2006-001                                                            T.S.O. V
007
2014- 7-7-14   Creating office of City Engineer                                                   31.39
008
2014- 7-7-14   Creating office of City Administrative Officer                                     31.40
009
2014- 7-7-14   Repealing Ord. 1996-008                                                            T.S.O. V
010
2014- 8-12-14  Compensation for the City Clerk/Treasurer                                          Not
011                                                                                               Included
2014- 8-12-14  Compensation for the Office Assistant                                              Not
012                                                                                               Included
2014-                                                                                             35.01 -
014   9-9-14   Levying and fixing real and tangible property tax rates for FY 14-15               35.04,
                                                                                                  T.S.O. IV
2014- 9-9-14   Amending parking regulations                                                       72.01 -
015                                                                                               72.03
2014- 12-1-14  Adopting a supplement to the code                                                  Adopting
017                                                                                               Ordinance
2014- 12-1-14  Amending waste removal section                                                     50.01,
018                                                                                               50.99
                                                                                                  40.01,
                                                                                                  40.20-
                                                                                                  40.26,
2014- 1-5-15   Creating alcoholic beverages licensing chapter                                     40.40-
20                                                                                                40.47,
                                                                                                  40.60-
                                                                                                  40.62,
                                                                                                  40.99
2015- 2-2-15   Amending the office of city administrator                                          31.40
01
2015- 2-2-15   Amending nonelected city officials                                                 31.35,
02                                                                                                31.38
2015- 2-2-15   Amending Economic Development Committee                                            36.30,
03                                                                                                36.31
2015- 2-2-15   Amending zoning                                                                    154.01
04
2015- 4-6-15   Amending waste removal section                                                     50.01
05
2015- 4-6-15   Annexing certain property                                                          T.S.O. I
07
2015- 5-4-15   Adopting the annual budget for FY 14-15                                            Not
08                                                                                                Included
2015- 5-4-15   Amending fee schedule                                                              40.20
09
2015- 6-1-15   Adopting the annual budget for FY 15-16                                            Not
10                                                                                                Included
2015- 6-1-15   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc. for   T.S.O. II
11             providing solid waste and curbside recycling collection and disposal services
2015- 7-6-15   Amending fee schedule                                                              40.20
12
2015- 7-6-15   Creating Communications Committee                                                  36.40,
13                                                                                                36.41
2015- 7-6-15   Creating the Communications/Ad ministrative Coordinator                            Not
14                                                                                                Included
2015- 8-3-15   Amending nuisances                                                                 Not
16                                                                                                Included
2015- 9-8-15   Amending the office of city administrator                                          31.40
17
2015- 10-5-15  Levying and fixing tax rates for FY 2015-2016                                      T.S.O. IV
18
2015- 11-2-15  Setting the compensation for David Martin                                          Not
19                                                                                                Included
2015- 10-5-15  Hiring Amy Lutes as Communications Specialist                                      Not
20                                                                                                Included
2015- 1-4-16   Amending zoning                                                                    154.01
21
2016- 5-2-16   Adopting the annual budget for FY 15-16                                            Not
01                                                                                                Included
2016- 7-7-16   Adopting the annual budget for FY 16-17                                            Not
04                                                                                                Included
2016- 7-7-16   Appointing Matt Dowling as City Administrative Officer                             Not
05                                                                                                Included
2016- 10-3-16  Levying and fixing tax rates for FY 2016-2017                                      T.S.O. IV
06
2016-                                                                                             92.01 -
07    12-5-16  Creating public nuisances chapter                                                  92.16,
                                                                                                  92.99
2016- 12-5-16  Creating a Code Enforcement Board                                                  39.01 -
08                                                                                                39.16
2015- 5-4-15   Authorizing the expenditure of funds by the City Administrative Officer            33.06
09
2017- 3-6-17   Creating the full time position of Communications Coordinator                      31.56
01
2017- 3-6-17   Setting the compensation for the   Communications Coordinator                   31.56
02
2017- 4-3-17   Adopting a supplement to the code                                                  Adopting
03                                                                                                Ordinance
2017- 4-3-17   Amending zoning                                                                 154.01
04
2017- 6-5-     Authorizing the mayor to enter into an interlocal agreement with Walton, Kentucky, T.S.O. III
05    17    regarding a joint code enforcement board
2017- 6-8-17   Adopting the annual budget for FY 17-18                                            Not
06                                                                                                Included
2017- 6-8-     Amending position of communications and operations director                        31.56
08    17   
2017- 7-5-17   Appointing the City Administrative Officer                                      31.40
09
2017- 8-23-17  Zoning map amendment                                                            Not
10                                                                                                Included
2017- 9-5-17   Levying and fixing tax rates for FY 2017                                           T.S.O. IV
11
2017- 10-2-17  Amending election procedures                                                       31.20
12
2017- 10-11-17 Authorizing the sale of real property located at 10087 Old Union Road              Not
13                                                                                                Included
2017- 10-11-17 Amending alcoholic beverages regulationsregarding hours of sale                    40.40
14
2017- 10-11-17 Annexing certain property                                                          T.S.O. I
15
2017- 10-11-17 Authorizing the issuance of industrial building revenue bonds                      Not
16                                                                                                Included
2017- 12-4-17  Adopting goals of the 2017 comprehensive plan                                      Not
17                                                                                                Included
2017- 12-13-17 Amending alcoholic beverages regulations regarding hours of sale                   40.40
18
2017- 1-10-18  Adopting the city personnel policy                                                 Not
19                                                                                                Included
2017- 12-13-17 Authorizing the sale of real estate located at 10087 Old Union Road                Not
20                                                                                                Included
2017- 1-10-18  Setting compensation for mayor and city commissioners                              Not
21                                                                                                Included
2017- 2-5-18   Amending zoning                                                                 154.01
22
2018- 2-5-     Adopting the comprehensive pay plan for   non-elected city officers and employeeNot
01    18                                                                                       Included
2018- 2-5-18   Creating the position of maintenance technician for the city                       Not
02                                                                                                Included
2018- 4-2-18   Zoning map amendment                                                               Not
03                                                                                                Included
2018- 5-21-18  Granting a request for a change in an   approved concept development plan       Not
04                                                                                                Included
2018- 6-4-18   Establishing penalty provisions for zoning regulations                             154.99
05
2018- 6-4-18   Amending Code Enforcement Board regulations                                        39.01
06
2018- 6-4-18   Adopting the annual budget for FY 18-19                                         Not
07                                                                                                Included
2018- 8-6-18   Amending the budget for FY 17-18                                                   Not
08                                                                                                Included
2018- 9-4-     Annexing certain property                                                          T.S.O. I
09    18   
2018- 9-4-18   Levying and fixing tax rates for FY 2018                                           T.S.O. IV
10
2018- 9-4-     Establishing City Commissioners meeting times                                      32.21
11    18   
2018- 10-1-18  Ordering the partial closure of a public way                                       Not
12                                                                                                Included
01-   4-1-19   Adopting a portion of the Model Procurement Code                                   33.45
2019
2019- 5-15-19  Adopting the annual budget for FY19-20                                             Not
02                                                                                                Included
2019- 8-5-19   Levying and fixing tax rates for 2019                                              T.S.O. IV
10
2020- 3-26-20  Adopting a traffic calming policy for the streets and roadways located in the city Not
01                                                                                                Included
2020- 6-1-20   Adopting the annual budget for FY 20-21                                            Not
02                                                                                                Included
2020- 9-21-20  Levying and fixing tax rates for 2020                                              T.S.O. IV
03
2020- 12-7-20  Regulation of parking                                                              72.01-
04                                                                                                72.03
2021- 2-1-21   Establishing day and time of monthly Commissioners meeting                         32.21
01
2021- 2-1-21   Zoning map amendment                                                               Not
02                                                                                                Included
2021- 2-1-21   Amending the regulations for the Mayor                                             31.21
03
2021- 2-1-21   Amending the duties of Commissioners                                               32.04
04
2021- 3-1-21   Zoning map amendment                                                               Not
05                                                                                                Included
2021- 4-5-21   Annexing property                                                                  T.S.O. I
07
2021- 4-5-21   Annexing property                                                                  T.S.O. I
08
2021- 5-3-21   Adopting the comprehensive pay plan for non-elected city officers and employees    Not
09                                                                                                Included
2021- 5-3-21   Establishing day and time of monthly Commissioners meeting                         32.21
10
2021- 5-3-21   Zoning map amendment                                                               Not
11                                                                                                Included
2021- 6-7-21   Adopting annual budget for FY 2021-2022                                            Not
13                                                                                                Included
2021- 7-7-21   Setting compensation for cemetery sexton                                           Not
14                                                                                                Included
2021- 7-7-21   Granting a request for a change in an approved concept development plan            Not
15                                                                                                Included
2021- 9-8-21   Levying and fixing tax rates for 2021                                              T.S.O. IV
16
2021- 10-4-21  Amending zoning regulations                                                        154.01
17
2021- 11-3-21  Zoning map amendment                                                               Not
18                                                                                                Included
2021- 1-3-22   Granting a request for a change in an approved concept development plan            Not
19                                                                                                Included
2022- 3-7-22   Establishing day and time of monthly Commissioners meeting                         32.21
02
2022- 3-21-22  Amending the election procedure                                                    31.20
03
2022- 4-4-22   Establishing day and time of monthly Commissioners meeting                         32.21
06
2022- 5-2-22   Adopting the comprehensive pay plan for non-elected city officers and employees    Not
07                                                                                                Included
2022- 4-18-22  Creating position of public works supervisor                                       Not
08                                                                                                Included
2022- 5-2-22   Adding new occupational license tax chapter                                        110A.01 -
09                                                                                                110A.09
2022- 5-2-22   Setting compensation for Mayor and City Commissioners                              Not
10                                                                                                Included
2022- 6-6-22   Amending the hours for the sale of alcoholic beverages                             40.40
11
2022- 6-6-22   Zoning map amendment                                                               Not
12                                                                                                Included
2022- 6-6-22   Authorizing the issuance of general obligation bonds                               Not
13                                                                                                Included
2022- 6-6-22   Adopting annual budget for FY 2022-2023                                            Not
14                                                                                                Included
2022- 8-1-22   Zoning map amendment                                                               Not
15                                                                                                Included
2022- 9-7-22   Amending occupational license tax chapter                                          110A.05
16
2022- 9-12-22  Levying and fixing tax rates for 2022                                              T.S.O. IV
17
2022- 9-12-22  Granting a request for a change in an approved concept development plan            Not
18                                                                                                Included
2022- 10-3-22  Annexing property                                                                  T.S.O. I
19
2022- 11-7-22  Amending streets with special parking restrictions                                 72.03
20
2022- 11-21-22 Amending the hours for the sale of alcoholic beverages                             40.40
21
2022- 12-5-22  Establishing day and time of monthly Commissioners meeting                         32.21
22
2022- 1-4-23   Amending streets with special parking restrictions                                 72.03
23
2023-         Tabled                                                                              
01
2023- 1-18-23  Amending effective date of Ord. 2022-09                                            Not
02                                                                                                Included
2023- 1-18-23  Amending zoning regulations                                                        154.01
03
2023- 2-6-23   Amending Economic Development Committee                                            36.30,
04                                                                                                36.31
2023- 2-22-23  Granting a request for a change in an approved concept development plan            Not
05                                                                                                Included
2023- 2-22-23  Repealing Ch. 110                                                               Not
06                                                                                                Included
2023- 5-15-23  Adopting supplement to the code                                                    Adopting
07                                                                                                Ordinance
2023- 5-24-23  Adopting annual budget for FY 2023-2024                                            Not
08                                                                                                Included
2023- 5-15-23  Establishing non exclusive franchise                                               T.S.O. II
09
2023- 9-6-23   Amending powers and duties of the Mayor                                         31.21
10
2023- 9-18-23  Levying and fixing tax rates for 2023                                              T.S.O. IV
11
               Adding a chapter establishing regulations for uninvited solicitations of           111A.01 -
2023- 9-18-23  contributions, sales of goods and services, and pledges, subscriptions, orders and 111A.06,
12             offers for them, and establishing penalties                                        111A.99,
                                                                                                  T.S.O. V
2023-                                                                                             95A.01 -
13    9-18-23  Adding a cemetery chapter, and repealing §§ 95.01 - 95.19                        95A.19,
                                                                                                  T.S.O. V
2023- 10-2-23  Failure to obtain business license penalty                                         110A.08
14
2023- 11-20-23 Establishing day and time of monthly Commissioners meeting                         32.21
15
2024- 1-11-24  Setting speed limit on dedicated streets                                           Not
01                                                                                                Included
2024- 2-21-24  Granting a request for a change in an approved concept development plan            Not
02                                                                                                Included
2024-         No second reading                                                                   
03
2024- 4-1-24   Establishing non exclusive franchise                                               T.S.O. II
04
2024- 5-20-24  Adopting annual budget for FY 2024-2025                                            Not
05                                                                                                Included
2024- 5-20-24  Amending zoning regulations                                                        154.01
06
2024- 5-21-24  Granting a request for a change in an approved concept development plan            Not
07                                                                                                Included
2024- 6-3-24   Amending succession of Office of Mayor                                             31.21
08
2024-                                                                                             114.01 -
09    5-21-24  Establishing smoking/vape retail regulations                                       114.03,
                                                                                                  114.99
2024- 6-17-24  Establishing non exclusive franchise                                               T.S.O. II
11
2024-         No second reading                                                                   
12
2024- 8-5-24   Adopting Our Boone County - Plan 2045                                              153.03
13
2024- 9-16-24  Levying and fixing tax rates for 2024                                              T.S.O. IV
14
2024-                                                                                             73.40 -
15    9-16-24  Regulating operation of golf carts                                                 73.47,
                                                                                                  73.99
2024-         No motion                                                                           
16
2024- 12-2-24  Repealing Ord. 2024-10 prohibiting cannabis retail businesses                      T.S.O. V
17
2024- 12-16-24 Amending zoning regulations                                                        154.01
18
2024- 12-16-24 Amending zoning regulations                                                        154.01
19
                                                                                                  91B.01 -
2024- 12-16-24 Adding new sidewalk maintenance chapter, repealing §§ 91A.01 - 91A.07 and 91A.99 91B.07,
20                                                                                                91B.99,
                                                                                                  T.S.O. V
2024- 12-16-24 Establishing day and time of monthly Commissioners meeting                         32.21
21
                                                                                                
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res.  Date     Description
No.   Passed
90-   4-9-90   Authorizing signatures for bank transactions
005
93-   2-8-93   Entering into an interlocal agreement with the Boone County Fiscal Court
003            providing for the assistance of the animal shelter
93-   2-8-93   Entering into an interlocal agreement with the Boone County Fiscal Court
004            providing for assistance of the public works department
93-   - -      Commencing cable franchise renewal proceedings
005
93-   2-8-93   Entering into an interlocal agreement with the Boone County Fiscal Court
006            providing police protection
93-   2-8-93   Entering into an interlocal agreement with the Boone County Fiscal Court for
007            building inspection and code enforcement services
93-   4-5-93   Contracting for the construction of a new municipal building
008
93-   5-10-93  Authorizing signatures for bank transactions
009
94-   1-10-94  Appointing a board of adjustments member
001
94-   2-14-94  Entering into an interlocal agreement with the Boone County Fiscal Court for
002            street maintenance
94-   7-11-94  Appointing a member to the legislative body
002
94-   2-4-94   Entering into an interlocal agreement with the Boone County Fiscal Court
003            providing for assistance of the public works department
94-   2-14-94  Entering into an interlocal agreement with the Boone County Fiscal Court for
004            building inspection and code enforcement services
94-   2-14-94  Entering into an interlocal agreement with the Boone County Fiscal Court
005            providing police protection
94-   2-14-94  Entering into an interlocal agreement with the Boone County Fiscal Court
006            providing for the assistance of the animal shelter
94-   11-14-94 Appointing a board of adjustments member
007
94-   12-12-94 Entering into an interlocal agreement with the Boone County Fiscal Court for
008            street maintenance
94-   12-12-94 Entering into an interlocal agreement with the Boone County Fiscal Court
009            providing for assistance of the public works department
94-   12-12-94 Entering into an interlocal agreement with the Boone County Fiscal Court for
010            building inspection and code enforcement services
94-   12-12-94 Entering into an interlocal agreement with the Boone County Fiscal Court
011            providing police protection
94-   12-12-94 Entering into an interlocal agreement with the Boone County Fiscal Court
012            providing for the assistance of the animal shelter
94-   -        Establishing a code of ethics
013
95-   1-9-95   Appointing a member to the ethics commission
001
95-   2-13-95  Appointing a member to the ethics commission
002
95-   3-13-95  Entering into an annexation agreement with Lassing Green Limited
003
95-   3-13-95  Authorizing payment to commissioner for special services
004
95-   5-8-95   Appointing a member to the ethics commission
008
95-   5-24-95  Authorizing signatures for bank transactions
009
95-   5-24-95  Appointing a member to the consolidation commission
010
95-   6-12-95  Authorizing application to participate in the Cultural Economics Initiative
011
95-   7-10-95  Authorizing signatures for bank transactions
012
95-   7-20-95  Authorizing reimbursement to the state for unemployment insurance
013
95-   9-11-95  Appointing a board of adjustments member
014
95-   10-9-95  Appointing a board of adjustments member
015
96-   1-15-96  Setting the salary of city clerk/bookkeeper
001
96-   - -      Opposing improving U.S. 42, construction alternate number 3
002
96-   5-13-96  Entering into an interlocal agreement with the Boone County Fiscal Court
003            providing police protection
96-   5-13-96  Entering into an interlocal agreement with the Boone County Fiscal Court for
004            services of the building inspector
96-   5-13-96  Entering into an interlocal agreement with the Boone County Fiscal Court for
005            animal control
96-   5-13-96  Entering into an interlocal agreement with the Boone County Fiscal Court
006            providing for assistance of the public works department
96-   5-13-96  Entering into an interlocal agreement with the Boone County Fiscal Court for
007            street maintenance
96-   - -      Regarding codification of city ordinances
008
96-   7-8-96   Accepting the bid of T & M Mowing to provide grass mowing service
009
96-   8-12-96  Accepting the bid of Paul Michels & Sons, Inc. to provide road repair services
010            on Windsor Way
96-   9-9-96   Authorizing the city to join the Boone County GIS Partnership
011
96-   9-9-96   Accepting the bid of J.P.S. Construction, Inc. to provide road repair services
012            on Windsor Way
96-   9-16-96  Appointing the position of city engineer
013
96-   12-9-96  Appointing a member to the planning commission
014
96-   12-9-96  Appointing a member to the GIS advisory board
015
97-   - -      Relating to flood damage control
001
97-   2-10-97  Setting the salary of city clerk/bookkeeper
002
97-   2-10-97  Entering into an interlocal agreement with the Boone County Fiscal Court for
003            street maintenance
97-   2-10-97  Entering into an interlocal agreement with the Boone County Fiscal Court
004            providing for assistance of the public works department
97-   2-10-97  Entering into an interlocal agreement with the Boone County Fiscal Court for
005            building inspection and code enforcement services
97-   2-10-97  Entering into an interlocal agreement with the Boone County Fiscal Court
006            providing police protection
97-   2-10-97  Entering into an interlocal agreement with the Boone County Fiscal Court
007            providing for the assistance of the animal shelter
97-   - -      Establishing a credit card account for designated officers and employees
008
97-   2-10-97  Appointing a member to the ethics commission
009
97-   3-10-97  Accepting the bid of Allied Builders, Inc. to remove and replace an existing
010            storm sewer
97-   5-12-97  Authorizing signatures for bank transactions
011
97-   - -      Accepting the bid of T & M Mowing to provide landscape service
012
97-   8-11-97  Authorizing purchase of computer equipment
013
97-   7-14-97  Accepting the bid of Teresa Franklin-Hudson to provide auditing service
014
97-   10-6-97  Accepting the storm sewer bid for Sycamore Drive of Thomer Excavating, Inc.
015
97-   10-6-97  Researching the possibility of establishing and collecting an insurance
016            premium tax
97-   10-6-97  Appointing a board of adjustments member
017
98-   - -      Approving an assignment of the cable television franchise from TKR Cable
001
98-   4-13-98  Establishing insurance company license fees
002
98-   4-13-98  Proceeding with storm sewer drain projects
003
98-   - -      Accepting the bid of Len Riegler Blacktop, Inc. to provide street and curb
004            repairs
98-   - -      Accepting the bid of T & M Mowing to provide landscape service
005
98-   6-9-98   Appointing a board of adjustments member
006
99-   1-11-99  Appointing a mayor pro tem
001
99-   1-11-99  Appointing a liaison officer for the Longbranch development
002
99-   1-11-99  Appointing an attorney for the annexation litigation with Florence
003
99-   6-14-99  Authorizing signatures for bank transactions
004
99-   7-12-99  Accepting the bid of Menefee's Lawn Care to provide landscape service
005
99-   7-12-99  Appointing a board of adjustments member
006
99-   - -      Approving a transfer of control to Insight Communications Company, L.P.
007
99-   - -      Accepting the bid of Queen City Blacktop, Inc. to provide street and curb
008            repairs
99-   12-13-99 Initiating the reclassification of the city as fifth class
009
00-   1-10-00  Appointing a representative member on the planning and zoning commission
001
00-   4-10-00  Appointing a member to the ethics commission
002
00-   4-10-00  Appointing a member to the ethics commission
003
00-   - -      Accepting the bid of J.P.S. Construction Inc.
004
00-   - -      Accepting the bid of Menefee's Lawn Care
005
00-   12-11-00 Appointing a member of the planning commission
006
01-   1-8-01   Appointing a mayor pro tem
001
01-   1-8-01   Appointing a commissioner of public works
002
01-   1-8-01   Setting the salary of the city clerk/treasurer
003
01-   1-8-01   Authorizing signatures for bank transactions
004
01-   4-9-01   Appointing a sexton of the cemetery
005
01-   6-11-01  Accepting the bid of Baker Mowing Services
006
01-   8-13-01  Appointing a board of adjustments member
007
02-   1-14-02  Authorizing the sheriff's office to enforce the city's ordinances
001
02-   1-14-02  Accepting the bid of Larry Bowman to provide snow removal services
002
02-   1-14-02  Setting the salary of the city clerk/treasurer
003
02-   4-8-02   Accepting the bid of Paul Michels & Sons to provide street and curb repairs at
004            Whispering Trails
02-   7-8-02   Appointing David E. Estes Engineering, Inc. to the City Engineer position
005
02-   8-12-02  Appointing Donald W. Harden to the City of Union Board of Adjustments
006
03-   1-13-03  Appointing Jonathan S. Jennings as the Mayor Pro Tem
001
03-   1-13-03  Appointing Wayne B. McClellan as the Commissioner of Public Works
002
03-   1-13-03  Municipal checks to be signed by listed officers
003
03-            Authorizing the City Commission to enter into the interlocal agreement to
004   2-10-03  provide KPDES storm water discharge permit services and other storm water
               related services
03-   2-10-03  Authorizing and directing the Mayor to adopt the United States IRS’s
005            guidelines for mileage reimbursement
03-   - -      Accepting the bid of Spillman Lawn Care to provide landscape/mowing services
006            in the city for July 1, 2003 through December 31, 2004
03-   7-15-03  Appointing Warren S. Moore to serve as City Commissioner replacing resigned
007            Ana Hitzel
03-   7-15-03  Appointing Terrill L. Kidwell to the Board of Adjustments
008
03-   11-10-03 Appointing Gregory T. Lloyd to the Board of Adjustments
009
2004- 2-9-04   Authorizing signatures for bank transactions
001
2004- 6-22-04  Appointing Foppe Technical Group, Inc. to the city engineer position
002
04-   6-22-04  Appointing Eddie Johnson as the sexton of Union Rice Cemetery
003
2004- 8-9-04   Guidelines for mileage reimbursement
004
2004- 11-8-04  Conditionally accepting ownership and maintenance and renaming the bypassed
005            segment of Old US 42
2004- 12-13-04 Appointing Randy Barlow to the Boone County Planning Commission
006
04-   12-13-04 Authorizing the initiation of having the city re-classified as a fourth class
007            city
2005- 1-10-05  Appointing Gary McCormick as the Mayor Pro Tem
001
2005- 1-10-05  Appointing Wayne McClellan as the Commissioner of Public Works
002
2005- 1-10-05  Authorizing signatures for bank transactions
003
2005- 2-14-04  Appointing Andrew A. Rosen to the Board of Adjustments
004
2005- 4-11-05  Accepting the bid of Spillman Lawn Care
005
2005- 6-13-05  Reappointing Sharon Bellan to the Board of Adjustments
006
2005- 6-13-05  Permitting the city to use Boone County's competitive bidding schedule on
007            roadway and infrastructure construction
2005- 7-11-05  Designating the National Incident Management System (NIMS) as the basis for
008            all incident management and requiring the use of the Incident Command System
2005- 8-8-05   Clarifying which Boone County department is authorized to act on behalf of the
009            city regarding unsafe structures
2005- 9-12-05  Authorizing the filing of a community economic growth grant
010
2005- 9-12-05  Supporting legislation to amend sections of KRS Chapter 220
011
2006- 1-9-06   Appointing a new Commissioner for the city
001
2006- 3-13-06  Adopting the Northern Kentucky Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan
002
2006- 3-13-06  Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the Commonwealth of
003            Kentucky and the City of Union
2006- 4-10-06  Joining the Grassroots Movement of America
004
2006- 5-8-06   Appointing a new Administrative Officer of the city
005
2006- 6-23-06  Appointing a new Commissioner of Public Works
007
2006- 6-23-06  Appointing an Ad Hoc Member of the Technical Design Review Committee
008
2006- 6-23-06  Reappointing a member to the Board of Adjustments
009
2006- 6-23-06  Entering into an agreement with property owners concerning excessive storm
010            water discharges
2006- 6-23-06  Appointing a Sexton Cemetery Manager of Union Rice Cemetery
011
2006- 7-10-06  Amending the contract with Rumpke for waste collection
012
2006- 9-15-06  Appointing a new City Commissioner
013
2006- 9-15-06  Appointing a Mayor Pro Tem
014
2006- 9-15-06  Adopting and approving the execution of a Municipal Road Aid Discretionary
015            Bond Fund Agreement
2006- 10-9-06  Modifying the terms upon which the city will conditionally accept ownership of
016            Old Union Road
2006- 12-11-06 Adopting the Boone County Emergency Operations Plan
017
2006- 12-11-06 Supporting in increase in E911 fees
018
2007- 1-8-07   Regarding city banking transactions
001
2007- 1-8-07   Appointing new Mayor Pro Tem
002
2007- 1-8-07   Appointing new Commissioner of Public Works
003
2007- 2-12-07  Authorizing an increase in the cost of purchasing cemetery lots in the Union
004            Rice Cemetery
2007- 2-12-07  Approving a grant agreement
005
2007- 2-12-07  Authorizing expenditure with the Boone County Planning Commission
006
2007- 5-14-07  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with Spillman Lawn Care
009
2007- 5-14-07  Approving a grant agreement
010
2007- 5-14-06  Approving ordinance adopted by Boone County Fiscal Court regulating sexually
011            oriented businesses
2007- 5-14-07  Appointing new member to the Boone County Planning and Zoning Commission
012
2007- 6-11-07  Appointing new City Commissioner
013
2007- 6-11-07  Appointing new Mayor Pro Tem
014
2007- 6-11-07  Reappointing a member to the Board of Adjustments
015
2007- 11-13-07 Adopting Boone County Emergency Operations Plan
017
2007- 11-13-07 Accepting grant for infrastructure projects in 2006-2008 budget
018
2008- 1-14-08  Authorizing loan application for Wastewater Revolving Fund
001
2008- 2-11-08  Authorizing KIA loan application
002
2008- 4-14-08  Authorizing purchase of property at 10087 Old Union Road from Union Fire
003            Protection District
2008- 6-9-08   Authorizing loan application for Wastewater Revolving Fund
004
2008- 6-9-08   Appointments to Board of Directors of Emergency Ambulance Service District
005
2008- 7-14-08  Authorizing condemnation of real property for construction of Mt. Zion/Old
006            Union/Russ Will sewer project
2008- 7-18-08  Authorizing foreclosure action against property located at 10015 Old Union
007            Road
2008- 11-10-08 Authorizing Mayor Donald Kirby to execute a request for payment
008
2008- 12-8-08  Authorizing the employment of the consulting and development firm of Pizzuti
009            Solutions regarding the Union Town Center
2009- 1-12-09  Appointing Jim Longano to serve on the county Planning Commission
001
2009- 2- -09   Accepting the re-appointment of members of the Northern Kentucky Regional
002            Ethics Authority Enforcement Committee
2009- 4-13-09  Appointing Karen Franxman to the position of Events Coordinator
003
2009- 4-13-09  Designation of applicant’s agent
004
2009- 4-13-09  Accepting bid from A&A Lawncare & Landscaping, Inc. for providing landscape/
005            grass mowing services
2009-          Accepting the appointment of Robert F. Greene and the re-appointment of other
006   5-8-09   members of the Northen Kentucky Regional Ethics Authority Enforcement
               Committee
2009- 5-11-09  Pamela K. Sayers is appointed as a member of the city Board of Adjustments
007
2009- 6-8-09   Accepting the bid from Bluegrass Paving, Inc., to provide repairs and
008            improvements to Homestead Drive
2009- 6-8-09   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract for City Attorney
009
2009- 9-9-09   Approving and authorizing an assistance agreement between the city and the
010            Kentucky Infrastructure Authority
2010- 2-1-10   Entering into an agreement for sanitation district No. 1 Storm Water Drainage
001            System
2010- 7-1-10   Appointing Eddie Johnson as Sexton Cemetery Manager of Union Rice Cemetery
002
2010- 7-1-10   Accepting the bid from Paul Michels & Sons, Inc., to provide repairs and
003            improvements to Cedarwood Drive
2010-         Tabled
004
2010- 8-2-10   Authorizing an annexation agreement
005
2010-          Acknowledging its intent to work with the Kentucky Department of
006   12-6-10  Transportation in the redesign and reconstruction of the Mt. Zion Road, KY 536
               Project
2010- 9-7-10   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract for City Attorney
007
2011- 1-3-11   Appointing Bob Kelly as the City Mayor Pro Tem
001
2011- 1-3-11   Appointing Bob Kelly as the Commissioner of Public Works
002
2011- 1-3-11   Accepting the re-appointment of members of the Northern Kentucky Regional
003            Ethics Authority Enforcement Committee
2011- 2-7-11   Appointing John Adams to the Boone County Planning and Zoning Commission
004            Technical Design Review Committee
2011- 2-7-11   Appointing Always and Forever Wedding Service, LLC, as Events Coordinator
005
2011- 3-7-11   Authorizing signatures for bank transactions
006
2011- 3-7-11   Accepting bid of Spillman Lawncare, LLC, to provide landscape/grass mowing
007            services to the city for January 1, 2011, through December 31, 2012
2011- 5-2-11   Extending waste collection franchise with Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc., for an
008            additional two-year period
2011- 5-2-11   Filing petition to terminate Cemetery Master Trust Agreement with Old National
009            Trust Company - Kentucky, n/k/a Old National Wealth Management Co.
2011- 6-6-11   Reappointing Terrill L. Kidwell to the Board of Adjustments
010
2011-          Accepting bid of Len Riegler Blacktop Company, Inc., to furnish labor and
011   7-5-11   materials for repairs and street improvements for Plantation and Hampshire
               Streets
2011- 9-6-11   Accepting bid of Four Seasons Landscaping, LLC, to provide landscape services
012            for Lassing Green
2011- 9-6-11   Authorizing the City Clerk/Treasurer to sign checks not exceeding $1,000 on
013            behalf of the Mayor, in emergency situations, with the Mayor's signature stamp
2011- 10-3-11  Supporting Northern Kentucky Consensus Committee 2012 Priorities
014
2012- 1-3-12   Authorizing a loan from PNC Bank for the Union Village Streetlight Project
001
2012- 2-6-12   Reappointing Jim Longano to serve on the Boone County Planning and Zoning
002            Commission
2012- 4-10-12  Accepting a proposal of the Kentucky Department of Highways relating to the
003            redesign and reconstruction of the Mt. Zion Road, KY 536 Project
2012- 7-10-12  Accepting bid from Perfection Landscaping & Design, Inc., for snow removal
004            services
2012- 8-6-12   Accepting bid from Paul Michels & Sons, Inc., to provide street repairs to
005            Union Village and Hempsteade Estates
2012- 12-3-12  Accepting bid from A&A Lawncare & Landscaping to provide mowing, trimming,
006            landscaping and general maintenance
2012- 12-3-12  Adopting the Northern Kentucky Area Development District (NKADD) Regional
007            Hazard Mitigation Plan
2013- 1-7-13   Appointing Bryan H. Miller Mayor Pro Tem
001
2013- 1-7-13   Appointing Bryan H. Miller Commissioner of Public Works
002
2013- 1-7-13   Authorizing signatures for bank transactions
003
2013- 1-7-13   Appointing Deanna Kline to serve on the Economic Development Committee
004
2013- 1-7-13   Appointing Donna Fryman as a member of the Ohio-Kentucky-Indiana Regional
005            Council of Governments Board of Trustees, and Bryan H. Miller as alternate
2013- 1-7-13   Opposing the use of tolls to as a funding mechanism for the reconstruction or
006            replacement of the Brent Spence Bridge
2013- 2-4-13   Supporting reforms to the County Employees Retirement System (CERS)
007
2013-          Granting an easement to the Transportation Cabinet for Parcel Nos. 21A and 21B
008   3-4-13   of a tract of land along Old Union Road for the proposed public highway
               improvement identified as KY 536
2013- 3-4-13   Re-appointing Eddie Johnson as Sexton/Cemetery Manager for the Union Rice
009            Cemetery
2013-          Granting an easement to the Transportation Cabinet for the reconstruction of
010   4-1-13   KY 536 to a five-lane urban section from 1,500 feet west of US 42 to I-75
               (does not include interchange construction)
2013-         Withdrawn
011
2013-         Tabled
012
2013- 7-1-13   Re-appointing Terrill L. Kidwell to the Board of Adjustments
013
2013- 7-1-13   Re-appointing Pamela K. Sayers to the Board of Adjustments
014
2013- 10-7-13  Authorizing agreement with Infrastructure & Development Engineering, Inc., for
015            professional engineering services
2013- 10-7-13  Appointing Tina A. Tkach to the Economic Development Committee
016
2013- 10-7-13  Extending the contract of Perfection Landscaping & Design, Inc., for snow
017            removal services
2014- 2-3-14   Authorizing contract with Greg D. Voss, Esq., to serve as City Attorney as an
001            independent contractor
2014- 3-3-14   Authorizing contract with Everette “Junior” Partin for grave digging services
002
2014- 7-7-14   Authorizing contract with Len Riegler Blacktop, Inc., for street repairs for
007            Lakepointe Court and Indian Hill Drive
2014- 7-7-14   Authorizing contract with Paul Michels & Sons, Inc., for street repairs for 19
008            streets
2014- 7-7-14   Authorizing contract with Paul Michels & Sons, Inc., for sealing joints and
009            cracks for 17 streets
2014- 10-6-14  Appointing Ken Heil to serve on the Boone County Planning and Zoning
011            Commission Technical Design Review Committee
2014- 10-6-14  Authorizing the Mayor to execute agreement for engineering services between
012            the city and Barry Burke, PE PLS
2014- 10-6-14  Accepting the bid from Perfection Landscaping & Design, Inc. to enter into a
013            contract for snow/ice removal services
2014- 10-13-14 Appointing Karen Fraxman to serve on the Economic Development Committee
014
2015- 1-5-15   Authorizing the City Clerk/Treasurer to use a signature stamp on city checks
01             with a threshold amount of $1,000
2015- 3-2-15   Authorizing the Mayor to execute the contract between the city and Everette
03             “Junior” Partin, Jr.
2015- 3-2-15   Accepting the bid from A&A Lawncare & Landscaping, Inc. for providing mowing,
04             trimming, landscaping and general maintenance.
2015- 3-2-15   Authorizing the Mayor to execute the contract between the city and Barry J.
05             Burke, PS PLS
2015- 6-1-15   Authorizing the Mayor to execute the lease agreement between the city and
06             Albert R. Barlow and Linda L. Barlow
2015- 6-1-15   Authorizing the Mayor to execute the contract between Paul Michels
7              Construction Company and the city for 2015 street repairs
2015- 6-1-15   Authorizing the Mayor to execute the contract between Len Riegler Blacktop,
8              Inc. and the city for 2015 street repairs
2015- 7-6-15   Adopting the NKADD Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan
09
2015- 8-3-15   Reappointing Pamela Sayers to the Board of Adjustments
10
2015- 9-8-15   Accepting the reappointmen t of members of the Northern Kentucky Regional
11             Ethics Authority Enforcement Committee
2015- 11-2-15  Authorizing the Mayor to execute the contract between the city and Amy Lutes
12
2016- 4-4-16   Authorizing the Mayor to execute the contract between the city and Everette
01             “Junior” Partin, Jr.
2016- 6-6-16   Relating to the lighting of the Mt. Zion Road, KY 536 project
02
2016- 6-16-16  Authorizing the Mayor to execute the contract between Paul Michels
03             Construction Company and the city for 2016 street repairs
2016- 9-6-16   Adopting the Joinder Agreement with the authority for participation in the 457
04             Plan and/or 401(k) Plan for the benefit of its eligible employees
2016- 9-6-16   Extending the contract to Perfection Landscaping & Design, Inc. For now
05             removal services
2016- 9-6-16   Authorizing the Mayor to execute the Master Interlocal Corporation Agreement
06             for infrastructure projects, programs or policies
2016- 11-7-16  Authorizing the Mayor for the city to execute the lease agreement between the
07             city and Wayne Schuerman
2016- 11-7-16  Authorizing the Mayor for the city to execute the loss control service
08             agreement between the city and Roeding Group Companies
2017- - -      Motion failed - regarding acceptance of a bid for landscaping services
01
2017- 2-6-17   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Everette Partin, Jr., for
02             grave digging services
2017- 2-6-17   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with A&A Lawncare & Landscaping,
03             Inc., for mowing, trimming, landscaping, and general maintenance services
2017- 4-3-17   Requiring signatures on bank transactions
04
2017- - -      Motion failed - regarding issuance of industrial revenue bonds
06
2017- - -      Encouraging the issuance of industrial revenue bonds for the construction of
07             an industrial building
2017- 9-5-17   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Len Riegler Blacktop, Inc.,
08             for street repairs
2017- 9-5-     Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Van Gorder, Walker & Co.,
09    17    Inc., for accounting and auditing services
2018- 3-5-18   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Everette Partin, Jr., for
01             grave digging services
2018- 4-2-18   Encouraging the Board of Education to consider a program related to school
02             safety
2018- 6-4-18   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Michels Paving Co., Inc., for
04             street repairs
2018- 6-4-18   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Len Riegler Blacktop, Inc.,
05             for street repairs
2018- 6-4-18   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Straight Edge Construction,
06             LLC, for street repairs
2018- 7-11-18  Reappointing an individual to the Board of Adjustments
07
2019- 3-4-19   Contract with Everette Partin
01
2019- 3-4-19   Contract with Structural Partners, LLC
02
2019- 7-10-19  Contract with Paul Michels Construction Company
03
2019- 7-10-19  Contract with Len Riegler Blacktop, Inc.
04
2019- 7-10-19  Contract TMS Construction, Inc.
05
2019- 7-10-19  Appointing committee members
06
2019- 8-5-19   Contract with Geostabilization, International
07
2019- 8-5-19   Contract with Geostabilization, International
08
2019-          Consenting to the appointment of Ben Detraz to fill the unexpired term of Adam
09    11-4-19  Croweak as an alternate member of the Union/Walton Joint Code Enforcement
               Board
2020- 2-3-20   Declaring Boone County to be a sanctuary county for the second amendment
01             rights
2020- 3-26-20  Contract with Palmer Paving
02
2020- 3-26-20  Contract with SECO Electric Co. Inc.
03
2020- 3-26-20  Contract with Palmer Paving
04
2020- 3-26-20  Adopting Visioning Values and Value Statements
05
2020- - -20    Ratifying state of emergency
06
2020- 6-1-20   Contract with Len Riegler Blacktop, Inc.
07
2020- 6-1-20   Contract with Humphrey Concrete, LLC
08
2020- 6-1-20   Contract with TMS Construction, Inc.
09
2020- 7-6-20   Affirming race and social justice
10
2020- 8-3-20   Authorizing the filing of a Coronavirus Relief Fund application with the
11             Department for Local Government
2021- 1-11-21  Accepting reappointment and appointment of members of the Northern Kentucky
01             Regional Ethics Authority Enforcement Committee
2021- 2-1-21   Urging the Kentucky General Assembly to enact legislation that modernizes
02             Kentucky’s road funding formula
2021- 2-1-21   Renaming a certain street situated in the city - Corner Court
03
2021- 2-1-21   Renaming a certain street situated in the city - Union School Road
04
2021- 2-1-21   Renaming a certain street situated in the city - Bristow Drive
05
2021- 2-1-21   Renaming a certain street situated in the city - Bandits Boulevard
06
2021- 3-1-21   Authorizing the Mayor to sign and file Community Development Block - CV Grant
07             Application
2021- 4-5-21   Authorizing Mayor to execute a memorandum of agreement for the development of
08             the Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan
2021- 7-7-21   Authorizing the Mayor to execute the agreement between the Kentucky
09             Transportation Cabinet and the city
2021- - -      Expressing the city’s desire to have the speed limit reduced on U.S. Highway
10             42
2022- 3-7-22   Authorizing the Mayor for the city to approve and sign the engagement letter
01             related to property acquisition bonds
2022- 3-7-22   Authorizing the Mayor for the city to approve and sign the contract with
02             Grammas and Brookfield Ltd Partners
2022- 3-7-22   Authorizing the Mayor to sign the municipal advisory services agreement
03
2022- 4-4-22   Authorizing the city to use the standard allowance for the local fiscal
04             recovery fund as authorized by the American Rescue Plan Act
2022-          Authorizing the Mayor for the city to approve and sign any and all documents
05    6-20-22  relating to the city’s purchase of 9931 Old Union Road and 1876 Union School
               Road
              
 
REFERENCES TO MUNICIPAL ORDERS
Order No. Date Passed Description
Order Date   Description
No.   Passed
99-   4-1-99 Repealing Ordinance Nos. 98-012 and 98-013, approving settlement agreement
001          and mutual release with City of Florence, Kentucky
2000- 6-12-  Declaring listed property owned by city to be surplus and available for sale
01    00
01-   2-12-  Authorizing the expenditure of public funds for a sewer
001   01
01-   4-9-01 Authorizing the expenditure of public funds for a cleaning service
002
01-   8-13-  Authorizing an agreement with the Transportation Cabinet for the maintenance
003   01     of the medians on US 42
02-   1-14-  Authorizing the Boone County Sheriff’s office to establish a sub-station in
001   02     the Union City Building
03-   8-11-  Authorizing the expenditure of public funds for the Braxton Street Storm
001   03     Sewer Project
2004- 8-9-04 Declaring listed property owned by city to be surplus and available for sale
001
2012- 3-5-12 Appointing Misty Ezell Office Assistant
001
2013- 7-9-13 Adopting special event guidelines
001
2013- 10-7-  Accepting and approving bid of Duke Energy for a non-exclusive franchise for
002   13     the transmission and distribution of natural gas and electricity for ten
             years
2013- 10-7-  Terminating March 25, 1997, interlocal agreement with the Fiscal Court of
003   13     Boone County for the inspection and construction of streets
2013- 10-7-  Terminating March 25, 1997, interlocal agreement with the Fiscal Court of
004   13     Boone County for snow and ice removal
2014- 3-3-14 Appointing Garrick Straub to the Economic Development Committee
001
2014- 3-3-14 Declaring charcoal grill and trailer owned by city to be surplus and
002          available for sale
2014- 8-12-  Regarding the increase in residential units for waste collection from Rumpke
003   14     of Kentucky, Inc., paying on the basis of 1994 residential units beginning
             July 1, 2014
2014- 10-13- Hiring Barry Burke, PE as a contractor for engineering services for the city
004   14
2014- 12-1-  Regarding the dress code for the city employees and officers
005   14
2015- 1-5-15 Appointing Bryan Miller as the City Mayor Pro Tem
01
2015- 1-5-15 Appointing Ken Heil as the Commissioner of Public Works/Engineer ing for the
02           city
2015- 1-5-15 Appointing Bryan Miller as the Commissioner of fiscal planning for the city
03
2015- 1-5-15 Appointing Bryan Miller to serve as a representative on the Ohio- Kentucky-
04           Indian a Regional Council of Governments Board of Directors
2015- 1-5-15 Appointing Kathy Porter as the city alcohol beverage control administrator
05           for the city
2015- 1-5-15 Appointing David Martin to the position of part-time city administrative
06           officer for the city
2015- 4-6-15 Reappointing Eddie Johnson as sexton/cemetery manager of Union Rice Cemetery
07           for the city
2015- 4-6-15 Appointing Dennis “Denny” J. Mathis to serve on the Economic Development
08           Committee on behalf of the citizens of the city
2015- 5-4-15 Authorizing the expenditure by the city administrative officer of funds under
09           $1,000 for the city
2015- 6-1-15 Appointing Misty Ezell as communications /administrative coordinator for the
10           Communication s Committee for the city
2015-        Appointing Mayor Larry Solomon and City Commissioner John Mefford as
11    6-1-15 Communication s Committee Liaisons for the Communication s Committee for the
             city
2015- 8-3-15 Appointing Administrative Officer David Martin and City Clerk/Treasurer Kathy
12           Porter as the city Nuisance Hearing Board
2015- 12-7-  Adopting an investment policy governing the investment of funds by the city
13    15
2015- 12-7-  Appointing Matt Apke to serve on the Boone County Planning and Zoning
14    15     Commission on behalf of the citizens of the city
2015- 12-7-  Hiring Barry Burke, PE as a contractor for engineering services for the city
15    15
2016- 2-1-16 Appointing Barbara McNeely as part-time office assistant for the city
1
2016-        Accepting the contract of Maddox & Associates to provide accounting and
2     2-1-16 auditing services to the city and authorizing the Mayor to execute the
             contract
2016- 2-1-16 Accepting the proposal of PNC Bank to provide business banking services to
3            the city
2016- 4-4-16 Providing a monthly CPA report from Maddox & Associates to the city
04
2016- 7-7-16 Setting a non-refundable fee for bidding packets
06
2016- 9-6-16 Appointing Melissa Stark Hinkle as communications coordinator for the city
08
2016- 11-7-  Hiring Barry Burke, PE as a contractor for engineering services for the city
09    16
2016- 12-5-  Re-appointing Bryan Miller to serve as a representative on the Ohio-Kentucky-
10    16     Indiana Regional Council of Governments Board of Directors
2017- 1-3-17 Approving individuals as Mayor Pro Tem for the city
01
2017- 1-3-17 Approving an individual as the Commissioner of Fiscal Planning for the city
02
2017- 1-3-17 Appointing a Commissioner of Public Works for the city
03
2017- 1-3-17 Appointing members of the Economic Development Committee
04
2017- 1-3-17 Reappointing members of the Economic Development Committee
05
2017- 1-3-17 Appointing individuals to serve on the Code Enforcement Board
06
2017- 1-3-17 Creating the Table of Administrative Staff for the city
07
2017- 2-6-17 Authorizing the Mayor to execute a maintenance and traffic agreement with the
08           Kentucky Transportation Cabinet
2017- 2-6-17 Authorizing the Mayor to extend a contract with Perfection Landscaping &
09           Design, Inc., for snow removal services
2017- 4-3-17 Authorizing the Mayor to extend a contract with Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc., for
10           waste collection services
2017- 4-3-17 Appointing an interim clerk/treasurer for the city
11
2017- 4-3-17 Repealing Resolution No. 2015-02, regarding the transfer or withdrawal of
12           funds
2017- 4-3-17 Authorizing a severance agreement
13
2017- 5-1-17 Appointing an individual to serve on the Boone County Planning and Zoning
14           Commission
2017- 5-1-17 Appointing an individual to serve on the Economic Development Committee
15
2017- 5-1-17 Appointing a City Alcohol Beverage Control Administrator
16
2017- 6-5-17 Reappointing a member of the City Board of Adjustments
17
2017- 6-5-17 Appointing a communications and operations director for the city
18
2017- 6-5-17 Appointing a city clerk
19
2017- 6-5-17 Appointing an office assistant for the city
20
2017- 6-8-17 Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Bluegrass Paving, Inc., for
21           street repairs
2017- 6-8-17 Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Len Riegler Blacktop, Inc.,
22           for street repairs
2017- 6-21-  Authorizing a stipend to offset electronic expenses
23    17
2017- 7-5-17 Extending the contract to Perfection Landscaping & Design, Inc., for snow
24           removal services
2017- 8-7-17 Authorizing the temporary waiver of a portion of the city ordinance on
25           disturbing and unnecessary noises
2017- 8-23-  General procedure for the issuance of industrial revenue bonds
26    17
2017- 9-5-17 Authorizing the execution of a declaration of trust
27
2017- 9-5-17 Approving the appointment of City Treasurer
28
2018- 1-10-  Adopting the IRS standard mileage reimbursement rate
01    18
2018- 3-5-18 Appointing an individual to serve on the Communication s Committee
03
2018- 3-5-18 Appointing an individual to serve on the Communication s Committee
04
2018- 3-5-18 Appointing an individual to serve on the Communication s Committee
05
2018- 3-5-18 Hiring a part-time maintenance technician
06
2018- 4-2-18 Accepting the proposal of heritage Bank to provide business banking services
07           to the city
2018- 4-2-18 Ordering the procurement of a town plan concept for the city
08
2018- 5-21-  Authorizing the City Attorney to pursue a foreclosure action against
09    18     properties located at 9612 Soaring Breezes, 2020 Holderness Drive, 10141
             Whittlesey, and a .33 acre lot PIDN 063.00-10-001.0 0
2018- 7-11-  Appointing Steve Harper to serve on the Boone County Planning and Zoning
10    18     Commission
2018- 8-6-18 Accepting the terms of a declaration of trust and a authorizing the Mayor to
12           execute the same
2018- 8-6-18 Accepting the terms of a trust participation agreement and authorizing the
13           Mayor to execute the same
2018- 8-6-18 Authorizing the appointment of a non-law enforcement citation/code
14           enforcement officer
2018- 8-6-18 Approving payment of a wage increase for city employees
15
2018- 9-4-18 Hiring an independent contractor for city engineering services
16
2018- 9-4-18 Authorizing the reconstruction of an intersection
17
2018- 9-4-18 Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Van Gorder, Walker & Co.,
18           Inc., for auditing services
2018- - -    Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Groundsystems, Inc. for snow
20           and ice removal services
2018-        Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with A&A Lawncare and
21    - -    Landscaping, Inc., for mowing, trimming, landscaping, and general maintenance
             services
2019- 1-7-19 Appointing Eric Dulaney to have superintendence over the Public Works
01           Department
2019- 1-7-19 Appointing John Mefford to have superintendence over the Community
02           Engagement/Communications Committee
2019- 1-7-19 Appointing Bryan Miller to have superintendence over the Fiscal Planning and
03           the Finance Department
2019- 1-7-19 Appointing Jeremy Ramage to have superintendence over the Economic
04           Development Committee
2019- 1-7-19 Appointing Elizabeth Barker to serve on the Union/Walton Joint Code
05           Enforcement Board
2019- 1-7-19 Adopting the Internal Revenue Service revenue standard mileage reimbursement
06           rate
2019- 3-4-19 Appointing John Cole to serve on the Economic Development Committee
07
2019- 3-4-19 Appointing Jeff Bowman to serve on the Economic Development Committee
08
2019- 3-25-  Appointing Melissa Hinkle as Interim City Clerk
09    19
2019- 5-6-19 Contract with Rumpke for solid waste disposal
10
2019- 5-15-  Contract with David Plummer
11    19
2019- 6-3-19 Appointing Pamela Sayers to serve on the Board of Adjustments
12
2019- 7-10-  Trust participation agreement with Kentucky League of Cities
13    19
2019- 9-3-19 Adopting Boone County Emergency Operations Plan
14
2019- 10-7-  Authorizing the appointment and approving Brent Caldwell as a non-law
15    19     enforcement citation/code enforcement officer
2019- 10-7-  Appointing David Baker as accountant/financial advisor for the city
16    19
2019- 10-7-  Appointing Christy Everman as City Clerk/Treasurer
17    19
2019- 11-4-  Appointing Adam Croweak to serve on the Union/Walton Joint Code Enforcement
18    19     Board
2019- 12-2-  Appointing Steve Harper to serve on the Boone County Planning and Zoning
19    19     Commission
2019- 12-2-  Appointing Dennis Gordon to serve on the Union/Walton Joint Code Enforcement
20    19     Board
2020- 1-6-20 Appointing Linda Browne as an administrative analyst for the city
01
2020- 3-26-  Establishing day and time of April City Commissioners meeting
04    20
2020- 3-26-  Providing for leave under the Families First Coronavirus Response Act
05    20
2020- 6-1-20 Authorizing the City Administrator to apply for funding to the transportation
06           alternatives grant program for sidewalk completion
2020- 6-1-20 Hiring Barry J. Burke as an independent contract for city engineering
07           services
2020- 7-6-20 Contract with Everett “Junior” Partin
08
2020- 7-6-20 Appointing Karen O-Sullivan to serve on the Board of Adjustments
09
2020- 8-3-20 Contract with Baker Business and Tax Solutions, PLLC
10
2020- 8-3-20 Contract with Duke Energy
11
2020- 8-3-20 Accepting the terms of the Kentucky League of Cities insurance services
12           general property and liability insurance
2020- 9-1-20 Creating a small business grant program
13
2020- 9-21-  Contract with Operation Honor Corp
14    20
2020- 10-5-  Authorizing the city to increase the amount of the small business grants to
15    20     assist local businesses
2020- 10-5-  Finalizing the product order between the city and Bluegrass Recreation Sales
16    20     and Installation
2020- 11- -  Contract with A & A Lawncare and Landscaping, Inc.
17    20
2020- 11-30- CARES act payment of funds to schools
18    20
2020- 12-7-  Appointing James Liles to serve on the Union/Walton Joint Code Enforcement
19    20     Board
2020- 12-7-  Appointing Steve Harper to serve on the Boone County Planning and Zoning
20    20     Commission
2020- 12-7-  Appointing James Collett to serve on the Economic Development Committee
21    20
2021- 1-11-  Appointing Mayor Pro Tem for the city
01    21
2021- 1-11-  Appointing superintendent over the Fiscal Planning and the Finance Department
02    21
2021- 1-11-  Appointing superintendent over the Community Engagement/Co mmunications
03    21     Committee
2021- 1-11-  Appointing superintendent over the Economic Development Committee
04    21
2021- 1-11-  Appointing superintendent over the Public Works Committee
05    21
2021- 1-11-  Appointing representative on the OKI Regional Council of Governments Board of
06    21     Directors
2021- 2-1-21 Amending the table of administrative staff
07
2021- 3-1-21 Officially approving and adopting the Boone County Emergency Operations Plan
08
2021- 4-5-21 Authorizing Mayor to expend funds to Viox and Viox
09
2021- 4-5-21 Appointing City Alcohol Beverage Control Administrator
10
2021- 6-7-21 Reappointing member to the city Board of Adjustments
09A
2021- 6-7-21 Contract with Everett “Junior” Partin
10A
2021- 6-7-21 Contract extension of Baker Business & Tax Solutions, PLLC
11
2021- 6-7-21 Contract extension of Barry J. Burke, PE PLS
12
2021- 6-7-21 Contract between the city and David Plummer
13
2021- 6-7-21 Amending the table of administrative staff
14
2021- 6-7-21 Contract with Riegler Blacktop, Inc.
15
2021- 6-7-21 Contract with Riegler Blacktop, Inc.
16
2021- 6-7-21 Contract with TMS Construction, Inc.
17
2021- 6-7-21 Hiring full-time Communication s Director/Assista nt City Administrative
18           Officer
2021- 9-8-21 Appointing member to serve on the Economic Development Committee
19
2021- 9-8-21 Appointing member to serve on the Economic Development Committee
20
2021- 9-8-21 Appointing member to serve on the Economic Development Committee
21
2021- 11-1-  Appointing Treasurer
22    21
2021- 11-1-  Appointing City Clerk
23    21
2021- 11-1-  Appointing Zoning Administrator
24    21
2021- 12-6-  Issuing Industrial Building Revenue Bonds
25    21
2021- 12-6-  Approving payment of a year-end wage adjustment
26    21
2022- 2-7-22 Officially approving and adopting the Boone County Emergency Operations Plan
01
2022- 3-7-22 Adopting the Internal Revenue Service standard mileage reimbursement rate
02
2022- 3-7-22 Authorizing reimbursement to the Kentucky State Treasury
03
2022- 3-21-  Declaring property owned by the city to be surplus
04    22
2022- - -    Reappointing member to serve on the Union/Walton Joint Code Enforcement Board
05
2022- 4-4-22 Contract with Riegler Blacktop, Inc.
06
2022- 4-4-22 Contract with Riegler Blacktop, Inc.
07
2022- 4-4-22 Authorizing the payment of a portion of the American Rescue Plan Act
08
2022- 5-2-22 Contract with Tru-Line Striping, LLC
09
2022- 5-2-22 Contract with TMS Construction, Inc.
10
2022- 6-6-22 Reappointing member to serve on the Board of Adjustment
11
2022- 6-6-22 Issuing Industrial Building Revenue Bonds
12
2022- 6-20-  Revised contract with Everett “Junior” Partin
13    22
2022- 6-20-  Adopting the Internal Revenue Service standard mileage reimbursement rate
14    22
2022- 6-20-  Contract with Baker Business & Tax Solutions, PLLC
15    22
2022- 6-20-  Contract with Barry J. Burke, PE PLS
16    22
2022- 6-20-  Setting compensation for non-elected officers and employees
17    22
2022- 8-1-22 Authorizing the condemnation of real property
18
2022- 9-7-22 Memorandum of understanding between the city and William Long
19
2022- - -    Contract with Govos
20
2021- 10-17- Appointing member to serve on the Union/Walton Joint Code Enforcement Board
21    22
2022- 11-7-  Officially approving and adopting the Boone County Emergency Operations Plan
22    22
2022- 11-7-  Contract with Simply Creative Lawn and Landscape, LLC
23    22
2022- 11-7-  Contract with Groundsystems, Inc.
24    22
2022- 11-7-  Contract with MKSK
25    22
2022- 12-5-  Appointing alternate member to serve on the Union/Walton Joint Code
26    22     Enforcement Board
2022- 12-5-  Appointing member to serve on the Boone County Planning and Zoning Commission
27    22
            
